FILLE COP
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6912-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 10, 1987
Infrastructure Division
Country Department IV, Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Cedis ¢
US$1.0    =    160 Cedis
1.0 Cedi    =    US$0.0063
SDR 1    =    US$1.27964
FISCAL   YEAR
January 01    -    December  31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter  (m)                       -      3.28   feet  (ft)
1 hectare  (ha)                    =      2.47   acres
1 kilometer  (km)                  =      0.62   mile  (mi)
1 metric ton  (t)                  -      2,205 pounds  (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATTC -- Accra Technical Training Center                   PMU  -- Project Management Unit
AfDB -- African Development Bank                          PTOA -- Progressive Transport Owners Association
BIRD -- The Bureau of Integrated Rural Devel.             RRMP -- Road Rehab. and Maintenance Project
BOG  -- Bank of Ghana                                     SAC  -- Structural Adjustment Credit
BSL  -- Black Star Line                                   SFV  -- Small Farm Vehicles
CIDA -- Canadian International Development Agency         SGS  -- Societe General de Surveillance
CES  -- City Express Services                             SOE  -- Statements of Expenditure
COCOBOD-- Ghana Cocoa Board                               SSB  -- Social Security Bank
DFR  -- Department of Feeder Roads                        STC  -- State Transport Corporation
DUR  -- Department of Urban Roads                         TCC  -- Technology Consultancy Centre
EEC  -- European Economic Community                       TRP  -- Transport Rehabilitation Project
ERP  -- Economic Recovery Program                         TSDC -- Tema Shipyard and Drydock Corporation
GCAA -- Ghana Civil Aviation Authority                    TSSN -- Transport Sector Strategy Note
GH   -- Ghana Airways                                     VOC  -- Vehicle Operating Cost
GHA  -- Ghana Highway Authority                           WFP  -- World Food Program
GNAG -- Ghana National Association of Garages
GPHA -- Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority
GRATIS -- Ghana Regional Appropriate Technology
Industrial Services
GRC -- Ghana Railway Corporation
GROTRAC -- Ghana Road Transport Council
ICB -- International Competitive Bidding
KTI -- Kumasi Training Institute
LCB -- Local Competitive Bidding
MDPI -- Management Development and Productivity Institute
MFEP -- Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MMP -- Ministry of Mobilisation and Productivity
MMU -- Mobile Maintenance Unit
MOE -- Ministry of Education
MRH -- Ministry of Roads and Highways
MTC -- Ministry of Transport and Communications
NPC -- National Planning Commission
NVTI -- National Vocational Training Institute
OECF -- Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan
OSA -- Omnibus Services Authority
PEP -- Public Enterprise Project
PID -- Planning and Implementation Division in MTC
PFI -- Participating Financial Intermediaires
PIP -- Public Investment Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE  .................            ..     ................         i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................                         ii
I.   INTRODUCTION  ..............................................                        1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .......................................                         1
A.  The Transport System ...................................                        I
B.   Roads  .................................................                       2
C.  Road Transport .........................................                        5
D.  Railways ...............................................                        6
E.  Ports and Shipping .....................................                        8
F.  Civil Aviation .........................................                        8
G.  Sector Planning, Manpower and Training .................                        9
H.  Transport Sector Issues, Strategy and Investment .......                       10
I.  Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector ......... .                    12
III.  THE PROJECT ................................................                        12
A.  Project Objectives .....................................                       12
B.  Project Description ....................................                       13
C.  Cost Estimates and Financing ...........................                       18
D.   Implementation .........................................                      20
E.  Procurement ............................................                      22
F.  Disbursements ..........................................                       23
G.  Accounting and Auditing ................................                       25
H.  Reporting and Monitoring ...............................                       25
I.  Environmental Impact ...................................                      26
IV.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF GRC ................................                        26
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................................                        28
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS .............................                        29
The project as well as this report were prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission in April
1987 by Messrs. T. Pankaj (Sr. Economist), K. Viswanathan (Sr. Railway Engineer), L. Pereira
(Sr.  Fin.  Analyst),  G.  Morra  (Sr.  Training  Advisor),  Carlos  de Castro  (Sr.  Transport
Specialist), C. Queiroz (Highway Engineer).  Messrs. M. Stoller, A. Mackie and J. Sinkinson
(Consultants) also participated in the work of the mission.  Ms. Carolina Machado (Operations
Assistant) provided computing assistance for the report.  Editing was done by Harold Young.
Secretarial work was done by Ms. S. Chase, Miss M. Houle, Mrs. S. Khan and Ms. I. Hewawasam.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ANNEXES
2-1         Transport Sector, Organization Chart
2-2         Ministry of Roads and Highways, Organization Chart
2-3         Ministry of Transport and Communications, Organization Chart
2-4         Status of Ongoing Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
2-5         Annual Funding Needs of Road Stabilization Program
2-6         Road Transport Vehicle Statistics, 1979-1985
2-7         Fuel Consumption Data 1970-1986
2-8         Ghana Railways:  An Overview of Present Situation and Future
Strategy
2-9         Ghana Railways: Past Traffic Trends and Projections
2-10        Transport Parastatals:  Reforms Underway
2-11        Public Investment Program for Transport Sector, 1986-88
2-12        Annual Road Budget, 1987
3-1         Road Maintenance Component
3-2         Rehabilitation of the Kumasi-Paga Road
3-3         Bridge Rehabilitation Program
3-4         Railway Rehabilitation Program
3-5         Support for Transport Planning
3-6         Road Safety Program
3-7         Training Programs
3-8         Credit Program for Road Transport
3-9         On-lending Policy and Procedures Road Transport Credit Program
(TSCP)
3-10        Pilot Program for Promoting Intermediate Transport
3-11        Project Cost Estimates
3-12        Project Financing Plan
3-13        Implementation Schedule
3-14        Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4           Financial Evaluation of the Railway Component
5           Economic Analysis
MAPS:       IBRD 20609: TRP Rehabilitation of Main Roads and Bridges
IBRD 20607: TRP Railway Component
IBRD 20627: Rail Component under First Railway Rehabilitation
Project
AF4IN
October 1987



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
Project Files                                                       WAIC No.
1.   Ghana First Railway Rehabilitation Project
Traffic Study Part I, April 1985
Rail India Technical and Economic Services, Ltd.
(RITES).                                                        D04732
2.   Economic Appraisal of the Central and Eastern Lines
and Follow on Program for Western Line, Dec. 1986
(RITES).                                                        D04733
3.   Ghana Railways: Working Paper on Economic Analysis               D05129
4.   Ghana Railways: Working Papers on Financial Analysis.            D05613
5.   Ghana Railways: Operational Data.                                D05614
6.   Study of Potential for Intermediate Means of Transport,
June 1987 Vols. 1 and 2, I.T. Transport, Ltd. London.           D05616
7.   Ejura Area Road Study, Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick, March 1987. D04965
8.   Ghana - Bridge Development Program - Feasibility Study
(Second Stage) Report, Tahal Consulting Engineers, Ltd,
November 1986.                                                   D04735
9.   Preinvestment Study for Kumasi-Tamale-Bolgatanga-Paga Road
Final Report, Kocks Consult GMBH, May 1987.                  D02888(i)
10. Training Component Documents by G. Morra, May 1987
A) Draft Terms of Reference for Training Advisor              D05134
B) Draft Subsidiary Agreement MTC and NVTI                    D05135
C) Draft TOR for Transportation Sector Survey of Manpower
Requirements and Related Training Needs
D) Transport Sectorial Overview of Training Needs
E) Cost of Estimates for Four Year Training Program               "
11.  Note on Road User Charges, Bank Mission, July 1987               D05130
12. Note on the Social Security Bank by Martin Stoller,
Consultant, May 1987                                             D05131
13. Draft Procedures for Evaluation of Transport Sector Credits,
May 1987                                                         D05132
14. Road Transport Sector: Note on Present Situation,
by Carls de Castro - Back to Office Report, March 1987           D05133
15.  Ghana Road Traffic Safety, by Alan Ross, Ross Silcock            D05617
Partnership, December 1986



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:          Ghana  Highway  Authority  (GHA),  Department  of  Feeder  Roads  (DFR),
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), Ghana Railway Corporation
(GRC), National Planning Commission (NPC), and small businesses
involved in road transport vehicle maintenance and operation through
sub-loans.
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH), MTC, GRC, Office of the Chairman of
Committee of Secretaries, Social Security Bank (SSB), and the Technology
Consultancy Centre (TCC).
Credit Amount:          SDR 46.9 million (US$60 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Relending Terms:        SDR 7.4 million (US$9.4 equivalent) would be onlent by the Ghana
Government to GRC at 8% interest over 20 years including 7 years of grace;
foreign exchange risk to be borne by GRC. Government, through the Bank of
Ghana (BOG), would onlend SDR 1.1 m (US$1.4 m equivalent) to SSB at BOG's
prevailing lending rate (currently 23.5%); SSB would onlend this amount at
the prevailing commercial banking rate (currently 26%) to small businesses
in the road transport sector, in cedi terms, with a maximum repayment term
of 8 years, including 3 years of grace.
Cofinanciers:           Cofinancing expected from the Government of Italy, CIDA (Canada), and
tentatively OECF (Japan).
Project Description:   The project would be implemented over six years and include the following
five  main  components:  (a)  Road  Maintenance  and  Rehabilitation  which
includes (i) a two-year (1988-89) time-slice of the road maintenance
program of Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) and Department of Feeder Roads
(DFR) which aims at clearing road maintenance backlogs over a 5-year period
(1988-1992), (ii) rehabilitation of Kumasi-Paga Road and 20 priority
bridges, and (iii) technical assistance for Project supervision and
management strengthening at DFR, GHA and MRH; (b) Railway Rehabilitation
which includes: (i) rehabilitation of the Central and Eastern Lines, (ii)
provision  of  essential   locomotives  and  rolling  stock,   and  (iii)
strengthening management and training; (c) Support to Transport Sector
which includes: (i) strengthening of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC), (ii) sector policy and other studies to assist MTC in
policy formulation and transport planning, and improvements in Road Safety
and Traffic Management, and (iii) training programs for road transport and
the Ghana Civil Aviation Authority;  (d) Pilot programs to support Road
Transport Industry and Low Cost Rural Transport; and (e) Technical
Assistance to National Planning Commission for infrastructural planning.



- iii -
Project Benefits
and Risks:              The main project benefit would be a more efficient and cost effective
transport system that permits a higher level of economic activity in the
country and higher employment. The project would help remove some of the
physical constraints in transport, reduce transport costs for goods and
passengers, and will effectively help exports, farm production, and the
mobility  of  people.   There  are  no  significant  risks  associated  with
implementation of the physical components of the project.  The main risk
relates to GRC's ability to improve its management and to implement the
administrative   and   financial   measures   required   to   ensure   its
competitiveness and financial viability. Other risks relate to problems
that may arise from Government delays in providing adequate flow of local
funds.   These risks will  be minimized at GRC by the formulation of a
Performance Agreement (Contract Plan) that will define the obligations of
GRC and of the Government;  for the road maintenance component, by credit
conditions under which (i) Government should make advance quarterly
payments of estimated expenditure to GHA, DFR, and (ii) IDA's funds for
road maintenance would be withheld if such advance Government payments are
delayed by more than one month. Overall, project risk appears moderate and
acceptable.
-------- US$ Millions --------
Estimated Project Costs                           Local        Foreign       Total
(a) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance                              27.4          95.2         122.6
(b) Railway Rehabilitation                                            9.3          30.2          39.5
(c) Support for Transport Sector Institutions                         1.1           3.5           4.6
(d) Pilot Programs for Road Transport
and Rural Transport                                               0.9           1.7           2.6
(e) Support to National Planning Commission                           0.3           0.6           0.9
(f) PPF Repayment                                                     0.0           1.4           1.4
Total Base Cost                                                      39.0         132.6         171.6
Physical Contingencies                                                2.5           9.1          11.6
Price Contingencies                                                   1.9           7.1           9.0
Total Project Cost                                                   43.4         148.8         192.2
Taxes                                                                21.6                        21.6
Total Project Cost (Including Taxes)                                 65.0         148.8         213.8
Interest during Construction                                          8.6            -            8.6
Total Financing Required                                             73.6         148.8         222.4
Financing Plan
IDA                                                                   4.7          55.3          60.0
Cofinanciers                                                         19.6          80.9         100.5
Government of Ghana                                                  48.2          12.6          60.8
Private Sector                                                        1.1           0.0           1.1
Total (Rounded)                                                      73.6         148.8         222.4
Estimated IDA disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year:               FY88      FY89       FY90       FY91      FY92       FY93       FY94
Annual                       3.87      24.00      20.72       6.22      3.21       1.62       0.35
Cumulative                   3.87      27.87      48.60      54.82     58.04      59.65      60.00



- iv -
Economic Rates of Return: Overall ERR is about 34%, ranging from 25% for railways to 70 for
bridge rehabilitation.
Maps: IBRD 20609
20627
20607
AF4IN
October 1987






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Ghana experienced a major economic crisis during the 1970s and early
1980s.  The transport infrastructure, which is essential for the movement of
key exports and farm production to market, faced virtual collapse during this
period due to prolonged neglect of maintenance and rehabilitation.  In 1983,
Ghana launched a successful Economic Recovery Program (ERP) to turn the
economy around.   This program emphasized restoration of export capacity as
part of its basic strategy. Under the ERP, with considerable support from IDA
and other donors, Ghana undertook emergency repairs and rehabilitation of
parts of its transport network, and has initiated generally sound and
pragmatic institutional reforms.  While these measures averted the complete
breakdown of the transport system, much remains to be done to restore its
capacity to meet current and future needs, and to strengthen the management of
the transport sector and rebuild its institutions.   These objectives will
require a decade or longer of concerted effort to accomplish. Government has
requested IDA's support in continuing the rehabilitation of the transport
sector; particularly in roads and road transport, railways, and sector
management begun under earlier projects.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
2.01      By  Independence  in  1957,  Ghana had a reasonably well developed
transport system. However, starting in the early 70s, it suffered more than a
decade of neglect from which it is only now beginning to recover.  The system
is spread over an area of 239,000 km2 and serves a widely scattered population
of over 12 million.  Given the difficult terrain and high rainfall in many
parts of the country, the road and rail networks are costly to rebuild and
maintain.
2.02      Ghana's  transport  system  comprises:   (a) a  network  of  about
14,100 km of trunk and urban arterial roads, and about an equal length of
feeder roads;  (b) an over-aged road vehicle fleet of about 74,000 vehicles;
(c) a 950-km railway system; (d) two major deep-water ports and three small
fishing ports; (e) a small inland water transport system over the Volta Lake;
(f) a national maritime shipping company; and (g) an international airport at
Accra and three main domestic airports, as well as a national airline (See Map
No. 20609).
2.03      Administration of the transport sector is handled by two ministries:
the Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH), which oversees road investments and
maintenance, and the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), which
deals with all other transport sub-sectors and overall transport policy and
planning. The three agencies under the MRH are (a) the Ghana Highway Authori-
ty (GHA), an autonomous body which manages maintenance and construction of the



-2-
primary and secondary road network; (b) the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR)
which handles maintenance and construction of feeder roads; and (c) the
Department of Urban Roads (DUR) which was set up in 1983 to look after urban
roads, but which is not yet fully separated from GHA.
2.04      The relationship between the MTC and the various transport agencies
reporting to it are well established; however, the internal organization and
procedures of the Ministry itself are not well-defined and need improvement.
This is compounded by shortage of middle-to-senior-level staff with adequate
experience.  In order to carry out effectively MTC's sector-wide functions in
investment planning, policy formulation, transport regulations, monitoring of
transport parastatals, and supervision and implementation of transport
projects within its purview, MTC would be strengthened under the proposed
project (para 3.14). (Annexes 2-1, 2-2 and 2-3 show the organization charts of
the sector, MRH and MTC respectively).
B. Roads
2.05      A full discussion of the roads sub-sector is presented in the SAR
for the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP), Credit 1601-GH,
also known as Highways IV.  The central issue leading to the project was the
extremely poor road conditions, and their negative impact on economic recov-
ery.   While some progress has been made, only about 30% of the road network
remains in good condition, with the bulk of the remaining network being in the
category of medium to severe  failure.   In many parts of Ghana,  the road
network has nearly broken down, disrupting goods and passenger transport, with
scores of farm areas losing access to markets and ports. Transport costs are
unduly high all over the country and have cut deeply into profits,
particularly in the case of small farmers and cocoa plantations located away
from all-weather roads.  Poor roads have become a major constraint on all
productive sectors of the economy. (Annex 2-4 summarizes the description and
progress on the RRMP to date).
2.06      The constraints to clearing the backlogs of road maintenance and
rehabilitation are both financial and institutional.   It is estimated that
annual road maintenance expenditures have to more than double the expected
1987 level of US$19 m equivalent, if substantial clearance of the maintenance
backlog is to be achieved by about  1993  (Annex 2-5).  In addition, heavy
expenditures are required to reconstruct nearly failed roads and bridges. The
institutional constraints relate to the capacity of MRH, GHA and DFR and
domestic  contractors  to plan  and implement  the maintenance program.   The
solutions are to: (i) strengthen MRH, GHA and DFR through technical assistance
and training and earmark most of the work done through direct labour to
contractors; (ii) expand domestic contractor capacity to carry out regular
road maintenance works which are usually small and scattered over the country
and (iii) increase the use of foreign contractors on clearing backlogs in
maintenance works and on heavy rehabilitation works.
2.07      The ongoing RRMP addressed both the financial and institutional
constraints, but considerably more remains to be done, particularly to in-
crease funding. Overall, the RRMP is tackling the main institutional problems
in the road sub-sector, in order to improve the capacity, quality and effi-
ciency of road maintenance, including the capacity of local contractors, and
provides limited financial support to both road maintenance and rehabilita-
tion. However, principally due to resource constraint, the project's goal in



increasing road maintenance coverage has been very modest.   While RRMP is
easing institutional constraints and will stop further deterioration of the
road system, it will make only marginal net improvements to road conditions.
2.08      RRMP's  assistance  to  Government  for  financing  road  maintenance
contracts will essentially run out by early 1988, though other elements will
continue.   Without  external  aid,  Government  funding would  remain at best
around the 1987 maintenance level of about US$19 m equivalent; at this rate,
it would take an estimated 20 years (up to year 2008) to clear backlogs and to
stabilize road conditions. This unacceptable situation would seriously impair
Ghana's economic recovery.   Now that the institutional problems have been
partly resolved and implementation capacity has increased, a larger mainte-
nance and rehabilitation program is feasible.   The Government has already
responded positively by increasing road user charges, in allocating larger
budgets for road maintenance, and in adopting various essential reforms to
improve road maintenance efficiency.  These measures have created a climate
where additional foreign support, in this clearly high-priority area, would be
all the more productive. Between 1985 and 1987, road user taxes including
excise duty and road fund levies, mainly in the form of fuel taxes, were
increased from about 2% of ex-refinery prices to an average of 28% on gasoline
and diesel. This led to an increase in road user payments to Government from
about US$2 m equivalent in 1985 to about US$35 m equivalent in 1987. Similar-
ly, the road maintenance budget (for Government funds, excluding foreign
funding and wages of Government staff) has been increased from about US$10 m
equivalent in 1985, to about US$12 m in 1986 and an expected US$16 m in 1987
(original 1987 budget was 3.8 cedis or US$24 m equivalent) (See Annex 2-5).
2.09      An optimal road maintenance stabilization program recently prepared
by GHA's Planning Department has demonstrated that a much larger maintenance
program of about US$40 m equivalent annually  is required to substantially
clear the huge backlog in maintenance within the next five years (1988-92),
(Annex 3-1 gives details). It would produce an acceptable mix of road condi-
tions by raising the proportion of roads in good condition from 30% now to
about 65%.  Attaining the US$40 m level of road maintenance during 1988-92
requires more than doubling of the 1987 level of maintenance expenditures.
While the Government should increase its own contributions, the bulk of the
increase would have to come from foreign funding, since the Government is
already spending a large share of its total budget on roads.  Moreover, such
increase in foreign funding would be a temporary phase needed to clear the
huge maintenance backlogs; after about 1992, following the stabilization
program,  regular  road maintenance  costs would  decline  considerably.   The
annual road funding needs of the road stabilization program which forms part
of the proposed project is shown in Annex 2-5.  This annex also shows the
estimated cost of a proposed program of road rehabilitation and reconstruction
which is not included in the project and would be financed through foreign
sources.  The maintenance program under the proposed project also excludes,
but is prepared in coordination with, a separate Cocoa Roads Rehabilitation
Program under the proposed Cocoa Rehabilitation Project.  This 5-year cocoa
roads program aims at rehabilitation and spot improvements of 3,000 km of
mainly feeder roads and construction of 60 km of new feeder roads, 2 major
bridges, and 80 km of tracks as well as support for their maintenance.
2.10      To supplement  the proposed project,  the  food aid to MRH/GHA/DFR
workers and staff provided by the World Food Program (WFP) under the RRMP is
expected to be continued during 1988-90, along with similar aid to port and



- 4 -
railway workers. The existing program provided an effective wage supplement
and incentive to increase productivity.
2.11      To ensure the success of the road stabilization program and to
improve resource mobilization for road maintenance, it is essential to resolve
two  outstanding  issues.    Delays  in budget  approval  and  release  of  the
allocated amounts continues to be a major problem facing road maintenance,
disrupting both planning and execution of maintenance works. This problem is
compounded by the lack of synchronization between the budget year of
January-December and maintenance works which because of the rainy season in
June-August, has to be done between September and May.  As the new budget is
often delayed up to March/April, it creates major disruptions to maintenance
operations.  Under RRMP, the Government set up a Road Fund which assured, to
some extent, the regular flow of funds to road contractors. However, the Road
Fund amount, estimated at ¢ 1,300 million or about US$8 m equivalent in 1987,
finances only a part of the maintenance budget; supplementary funds for
periodic maintenance and routine maintenance were included in the regular
budget in 1986, but in practice, such funding was not provided adequately or
on time, in spite of IDA credit conditions.
2.12      A solution agreed with the Government as part of the credit condi-
tion for the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) (Cr. 1777-GH, April 1987) was
to create a new concept of "super core" for the 1987 budget, which would
include, inter alia, road maintenance (both periodic and routine), with an
allocation of e 3.8 billion from Government funds, including the Road Fund.
Due to various difficulties faced by the Government, release of maintenance
funds from the "super core   other than the Road Fund, has been totally
inadequate up to August 1987 (with only about US$6 m equivalent released until
then). During negotiations, Government agreed to ensure that at least 70% of
the original 1987 budget allocation for road maintenance would be released
during the year; release of the total amount estimated for this purpose (2.66
billion cedis) will be a condition of credit effectiveness.   In order to
ensure adequate and timely funding of the road maintenance program under the
proposed Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP), Government has also agreed to
the following: (a) to include in the "super core" of the budgets for 1988
through 1990 at least US$18 m equivalent in 1988, US$19 m equivalent in 1989,
and US$25 m annually for 1990, as Government funds for road maintenance all
expressed in mid-1987 prices; (b) to maintain the existing Road Fund at at
least its present funding level; and (c) to pay into the accounts established
by GHA and DFR for road maintenance works (the Road Maintenance Accounts), on
the basis of quarterly estimates of road maintenance needs: (i) accruals to
the Road fund, monthly in advance, and (ii) other amounts allocated in the
budget for road maintenance, quarterly in advance.  It was also agreed that
disbursements to the Special Account for road maintenance components under the
proposed credit would be withheld, if the agreed advance payments are delayed
by more than one month.   The total quarterly installments  (including Road
Fund) will be 25%, 30%, 20% and 25% respectively for the first to fourth
quarters  respectively,  unless  otherwise  estimated  and agreed.   Government
agreed to deposit into the Road Maintenance Accounts 700 million cedis, in
advance, as its quarterly contribution for the first quarter of 1988; such
deposit will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
2.13      While road user contributions  to Government's  revenue have been
increased (para 2.08), the total amount is still below the estimated level.
It is estimated that after the clearance of accumulated backlogs, the road
users should contribute about US$60 million equivalent (in 1987 prices)



annually for maintaining the road system (ref. Project File Document No.
D05130). An increase of about 65% over the mid-1987 tax levels on gasoline and
diesel will become necessary to recover these costs.  The structure of road
user charges needs to be modified to provide an adequate compensation from
heavy trucks which inflict heavy damage on road pavements. Government actions
in increasing fuel taxes are expected to be taken based on continuing Govern-
ment-IMF negotiations on the subject. During negotiations, Government agreed
on the following: (a) to continue actions in improving cost-recovery from
road-users; (b) before June 30, 1989, to review with IDA on progress made in
increasing the level and improving the structure of road user charges collect-
ed, and to agree on an action plan to achieve adequate cost recovery by June
30, 1990; and (c) to implement such action plan.
C. Road Transport
2.14      About 90% of commercial road transport vehicles are operated by the
private sector. Three Government-owned companies: State Transport Corporation
(STC), City Express Service (CES) and Omnibus Services Authority (OSA); and
trucking fleets owned by other parastatals for own-account transport, carry
the remaining goods and passenger traffic under competitive conditions.
Private bus and truck companies are typically small, averaging 4-5 vehicles
with  a predominance  of  one-vehicle  owner-operators.   Entry  is  free,  and
generally any Ghanaian owning a roadworthy vehicle with valid insurance can
operate transport services for goods or passengers along any route without a
license from Government.   Licensing is required only for taxi services in
cities.   Passenger and freight  tariffs are set by Government and revised
frequently based on changes in costs, but these generally govern public sector
operations, and only serve as bench-marks for the private sector, as they are
not enforced.   Actual charges  in rural areas are often about 8-10 times
Government's tariffs, mainly because of poor roads and the limited supply of
serviceable vehicles.
2.15      The fleet of roadworthy vehicles decreased by about 13% between 1982
and 1985 and now stands at about 68,000 units.  The average age of the fleet
is estimated at about 10-15 years as there have been only minimal imports of
new vehicles over recent years.   Safety standards of the private fleet are
poor and it is estimated that 40% of the current operating vehicles would not
pass a strict safety test.  Fuel and spare parts availability have improved
recently and the percentage of vehicles actually on the road, estimated as low
as 30% of the fleet in mid-1983 due to lack of tires and spare parts, may now
be above 60%. The foreign exchange auctions initiated in mid 1986 have helped
to make vehicle spare parts and accessories more freely available than in the
past.   Fuel consumption data, which reflect  traffic levels,  showed a 40%
decline from 1981 to 1984, but a 30% increase in 1985, and a further small
increase  in  1986.   (Annexes 2-6 and 2-7 give vehicle statistics  and fuel
consumption data).
2.16      While the road transport market is vibrant and dynamic under the
dominant private sector, the road transport industry faces many problems:
(a) poor road conditions; (b) weak financial performance of road transport
parastatals, arising from weak management; (c) mounting cost of vehicles and
spare parts as the cedi exchange rate continue to deteriorate; (d) weak
organization of the freight transport industry, which operates without suffi-
cient   coordination   in   freight   collection   and   distribution;   (e) an
undercapitalized and ill-equipped vehicle repair industry, which lacks ade-
quate tools, parts, training and organization; (f) inadequate training



- 6 -
facilities  and  programs  for mechanics,  drivers,  and  management;  (g) lax
enforcement of road traffic safety rules and regulations, resulting in high
accident rates; (h) lack of development of intermediate forms of transport,
such as bicycles and other low cost transport forms; and (i) inadequate
statistics regarding the available capacity, utilization, volume of freight,
earnings, profitability, import requirements, etc., which are needed for
planning purposes.
2.17      The Government has recently employed consultants, financed by IDA,
to carry out a Road Transport Sector Study which is studying the problems
facing the road transport industry and will suggest a short and medium-term
action  program  for  improvement.   The  study  focuses  on  (a) organizational
problems and solutions; (b) review of Government policy and Government regula-
tions and needed reforms; (c) measures needed to further improve the private
sector role; (d) intermodal issues; and (e) estimated road transport demand up
to the year 2,000, and investments and import components needed to meet this
demand.   The  study  is  expected  to  be  completed  in  December 1987.   The
Government agreed during negotiations that it will review with the Bank before
January 31, 1988 the findings of the study, and agree, before September
30, 1988, on an action program and timetable to implement reforms in Govern-
ment's policies and regulatory framework. Government also agreed to furnish
IDA semi-annual reports on progress in implementing transport reform measures,
and on general policy and institutional changes affecting the transport
sector.
2.18      Ghana's  transport  development  has  primarily  depended  on  motor
transport, with relative absence in most parts of the country of bicycles,
farm carts  and other  intermediate  forms  of  transport.   The promotion of
sustainable and affordable intermediate low cost rural transport technology,
particularly non-motorized transport in rural areas and small towns, is an
effective way of improving economic prosperity and rural welfare, particularly
of the poorer sections of society.  The proposed project includes funds for
this important work.
2.19      The road transport problems listed in para 2.16 are massive and can
be solved only with the full recovery of Ghana's economy and the availability
of adequate foreign exchange.  The proposed project will make a modest but
significant contribution to begin to solve the problems, particularly in
institutional improvements, through: (a) training programs; (b) improving
productivity of  repair  facilities;  (c) building  a pilot  regional  freight
terminal; (d) strengthening of vehicle-owner associations; (e) promoting
low-cost non-motorized transport; and (f) encouraging the Government to pursue
an efficient market-oriented approach to the sub-sector.  These measures to
assist the private sector are mainly in the nature of innovations and would
not take place without outside support.
D. Railways
2.20      The railway system is operated by the Government-owned Ghana Railway
Corporation (GRC).  The railway network serves only southern Ghana, covering
the "golden" triangle with Accra, Kumasi and Takoradi at its vertices, with a
connection from Accra to Tema port.  While the length of the system is only
about 950 km, it serves the richest, most productive, and most populated
region in Ghana. Until the early seventies, it carried a significant share of
export traffic to the ports:  bauxite, manganese and timber to Takoradi, and
cocoa to both Takoradi and Tema.   Since then, the neglect and consequent



- 7 -
deterioration of the railway virtually crippled Ghana's export capabilities.
As a result railway traffic, which was about 1.6 million tons and 8 million
passengers in the early seventies, declined to 350,000 tons and 3.3 million
passengers in 1983.
2.21      The ongoing Railway Rehabilitation Project  (Map IBRD  20627)  ad-
dressed the main shortcomings through the physical rehabilitation of the
principal export corridor, the Western line (Takoradi-Kumasi), some rehabili-
tation of the worn-out locomotives and wagons and some essential institution
building. The success achieved so far with the project is encouraging, though
it faced many implementation problems, delaying the achievement of traffic and
financial objectives.   This project, when completed by the end of 1987, will
raise the capacity of the Western line to a level adequate to carry the
traffic expected by 1990.  Goods traffic has already picked up to 480,000
tons in 1985, and 575,000 tons in 1986. The GRC, including the Western line,
would however need some additional investments to sustain and consolidate the
rolling stock rehabilitation already done under the ongoing project and to
provide continued management support and training; these elements are included
under the proposed project.
2.22      The long-term role of GRC and the justification for the continued
operation of the Eastern and Central lines (after appropriate investments on
their rehabilitation) were the key issues when the ongoing project was ap-
praised. Studies conducted under the project underlined the economic benefits
in continuing the operations of these two lines by implementing the minimum
rehabilitation needed for safe and satisfactory train services, in order to
increase GRC's traffic and thus bring the working ratio of the railway down
from its present level of 220% to about 86% by 1992. The studies also showed
that rail has a clear economic advantage over road for bulk commodities even
on the Eastern Line (Accra-Kumasi) where the rail is paralleled by a good
road.  The Central Line (Accra-Takoradi) not only serves an area which lacks
any other means of transport and is a social necessity, but also provides
economical transport for cocoa and timber. All three lines previously carried
heavy passenger traffic until it was greatly reduced by limited rolling stock
and increasing safety hazards. Traffic projections indicate that with
rehabilitation of the railway system, traffic levels can be restored to the
levels reached in the early 1970's. Minimal rehabilitation of the Eastern and
Central lines is therefore included in the proposed project.
2.23      GRC is heavily subsidized, receiving annually about e 300 million as
an operating subsidy, and ¢ 750 million (in 1985) as a capital subsidy. GRC's
operating costs, particularly staff costs, are high and constitute the princi-
pal reason for the heavy operational subsidy. Under the ongoing project, GRC
has reduced its staff strength from 11,000 to 7,800.  Further reductions are
necessary but will have to be phased to take account of heightened public
sensitivity to the nationwide retrenchment of civil servants agreed with the
Bank.   GRC would also have to take a series of complementary measures to
reduce operating costs through increased operating efficiency, tariff increas-
es, lowering the turn-round of wagons, and implementing commercial strategies
to attract more  traffic.   The  above measures will be  spelled  out  in a
Performance Agreement (Contract Plan) between GRC and the Government, the
implementation of which will be monitored through fulfillment of operational
and financial targets, with the assistance of a management support team. The
Government agreed at negotiations to sign before June 30, 1988 the Performance
Agreement between Government and GRC which will provide adequate autonomy for
GRC in key areas including tariff setting and staff reduction, and will define



- 8 -
obligations  of  GRC  and  the  Government.   The  draft  Performance  Plan  is
currently being prepared by GRC.  A set of financial and operational targets
to be fulfilled during the project cycle and to be incorporated into the
Performance Agreement and into GRC's Project Agreement with IDA were also
agreed  during  negotiations.   Details  of  the  railways'  present  situation,
traffic projections and the proposed rail component including performance
targets, are given in Annexes 2-8 and 2-9.
E. Ports and Shipping
2.24      Critically needed physical rehabilitation and institutional restruc-
turing of Ghana's main commercial ports of Tema and Takoradi under the Ghana
Ports and Harbours Authority (GPHA) were initiated in early 1986 under the
ongoing Ports Rehabilitation Project.   The rehabilitation and reorganization
of both ports would be completed by 1989, providing adequate capacity to meet
Ghana's port requirements up to the mid-1990s. The credit agreement provided
for substantial institutional reforms, including a larger role for the private
sector in port operations.   In lake transport on the Volta, facilities are
being improved through bilateral assistance from the Federal Republic of
Germany.  Additionally, the proposed IDA project for Petroleum Refining and
Distribution would provide fuel tankage and pumping facilities in the lake
ports of Akosombo and Buipe.
2.25      The national shipping line, Black Star Line  (BSL), has operated
unprofitably for years. The Government has stopped subsidizing BSL, except in
meeting past debt obligations for ships bought from Korea.  BSL has recently
undertaken drastic reorganization measures, reduced its staff by 65%, and sold
off its old ships.   Further,  the Government has recently appointed a new
management team.  The Government is actively exploring BSL's joint operation
with interested foreign ship owners, perhaps BSL's only option for viability
and survival.  The Public Enterprise Project (PEP), for which an IDA credit
was approved in October 1987, would provide funding for studies to assess
BSL's financial situation and its corporate restructuring (para 2.34).
F. Civil Aviation
2.26      The  state-owned  Ghana  Airways  (GH)  operates  profitably  on  its
international flights, but cross-subsidizes losses on its domestic operations.
Overall,  it produces a nominal profit.   A study financed by the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) is examining the feasibility of
strengthening domestic air transport, including the option of a separate
private sector operation. The PEP would provide technical assistance support
to GH to prepare corporate plans to guide its future operations.
2.27      In 1986, the Government converted its Department of Civil Aviation
into an autonomous body, the Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA), to main-
tain and operate civil airports on a commercial basis. This agency is yet to
establish a proper organizational structure, operational procedures and finan-
cial and project planning.  It needs technical assistance and training, part
of which will be provided under the proposed project   The  IDA  financed
component will supplement and will be implemented in coordination with a more
substantial reorganisation and technical assistance program for GCAA; such a
program, which is critical for GCAA's future efficiency, is being prepared by
Government and is likely to be financed by French or Canadian bilateral
assistance.  Present income from airport users' fees is inadequate to cover
GCAA's annual operation costs, requiring a Government subsidy of about



- 9 -
US$700,000 equivalent during 1987, the first year of GCAA's operation.  The
Government agreed during negotiations that GCAA would (a) by June 30, 1988,
with the help of accounting consultants complete a financial information study
of GCAA and draw up the outline of a new accounting system which can be
readily developed into a commercial accounting system; and (b) by December 31,
1989, with the help of management consultants study GCAA's tariff structure
and prepare a cost recovery program for GCAA which will reduce future
Government subsidies to GCAA. Rehabilitation of the Accra Airport runway is a
high priority. It has been included in Ghana's investment program for 1986-88
at a cost of US$5.0 m; bilateral assistance for this investment is being
sought.
G. Sector Planning, Manpower and Training
2.28      To provide  sector planning  support  for Ghana's  transport  sector
institutions, the Government is implementing a phased program with financing
from ongoing IDA and UNDP projects. The program provides technical assistance
and other support to strengthen planning units in MTC, MRH, GHA and DFR. The
planning units are, in coordination with one another, preparing investment
plans for their sub-sectors, conducting project evaluation, improving collec-
tion and analysis of statistics, and conducting studies and analysis of
transport problems, with consultancy assistance as needed. Ongoing assistance
from IDA and UNDP will terminate in early 1988.  The Planning Department in
MTC, which should coordinate all sector planning, needs further support and
strengthening during  1988-90.   MTC's Planning Department has increased its
staff to 18, mostly young graduates, and continued training and technical
support is essential, so that it can produce investment plans, feasibility
studies and other studies on its own, with only limited help from outside
consultants.  Until recently, both the planning work and project and policy
implementation functions of MTC were handled by the Planning Department staff,
resulting in poor specialization and partial neglect of the planning work. To
remedy this, the Government, in September 1987, restructured the Planning
Department as a Planning and Implementation Division (PID) with separate units
for planning and implementation functions.   The proposed project includes a
program for planning support to MTC and to DFR.   Government has recently
established the nucleus of a National Planning Commission (NPC) for
inter-sectoral and long-range planning and coordination; it is presently under
the supervision of the Committee of Secretaries of the PNDC.  NPC will, among
other things, coordinate national planning with sectoral planning done by
sector  Ministries.    The  proposed  project  will  assist  NPC's  work  in
infrastructural planning.
2.29      In all sector agencies, there is a shortage of qualified personnel
at middle and higher-levels, and a surplus of unskilled staff at the lower
levels. The Government's manpower and training policies emphasize incentives
for qualified Ghanaians living abroad to return to Ghana, phased reduction of
unskilled surplus staff, and local and foreign training to improve the quality
of existing personnel, along with the use of expatriate experts in key areas
of project implementation and institutional management. Manpower development
and training received little attention until the early eighties when Bank/IDA
projects for highways, ports, and railways included programs for the training
and  upgrading  of  personnel  at  most  levels.   Ongoing  projects  in  these
sub-sectors included manpower studies and institutional strengthening through
some reorganization, technical assistance, and in-service training programs
for staff at all levels. The proposed project will support: (a) continuation
of training programs for the railways (para 2.21), (b) limited new training



- 10 -
programs and strengthening of training institutions in the road transport
sector in order to improve transport organization, vehicle maintenance and
safety standards; (c) management support and training in the newly established
GCAA (para 2.27) and in MTC; and (d) a comprehensive manpower and training
needs study for the transport sector.
H. Transport Sector Issues, Strategy and Investment
2.30      A  Transport  Sector  Strategy  Note   (TSSN,  Report  No. 5737-GH,
June 1985) prepared by the Bank and agreed with the Government, focuses on the
country's main transport problems and policy issues, and presented a strategy
for tackling them over the short and medium terms. It proposed a coordinated
approach linking necessary policy and institutional reforms to a phased
program of IDA assistance to rehabilitate the transport sector, which is basic
for the success of Ghana's economic recovery.   Since the economy is highly
dependent on the production of export commodities and food crops, adequate
land transport service and efficient ports are vital. The importance attached
to the transport sector in the strategy for economic recovery is reflected in
the high proportion of resources devoted to it. Under the 1984-86 ERP, close
to 50% of projected available foreign exchange resources were allocated to
physical infrastructure, mainly transport.   The  1986-88 investment program
also assigned an equally high share for transport.   The rehabilitation of
transport infrastructure has been one of the areas of concentration of inter-
national assistance to Ghana.
2.31      As part of IDA's ongoing transport projects, Government has agreed
to implement basic policy and institutional reforms in areas highlighted by
the TSSN.  These include, among others, annual review with the Bank, of: (a)
Government's three-year transport investment plans and public expenditure
programs; (b) reorganization of public sector port agencies on commercial
lines, adequate cost recovery in ports, and an increased role for the private
sector in port activities; (c) increased share for private sector contractors
in road maintenance, and easing of their operational problems arising from
Government policies; introduction of competitive bidding for all road mainte-
nance contracts and improved supervision and auditing; (d) phased reduction of
excess staff in the road, rail and port agencies; (e) reorganization of the
Ministry of Roads and Highways; and (f) establishment of a Road Fund based on
new taxes on fuel to finance road maintenance. Satisfactory progress is being
made on implementation of these reforms, with the exception of shortfalls in
the agreed level of funding for road maintenance (para 2.11).
2.32      While the above measures would address the issue of establishing
priorities and balance in transport expenditures, and achieve essential
institutional reforms in the roads and port areas, other outstanding issues
which need attention in the light of recent sector studies are: (a) adequate
cost recovery in railways, airports and road-use; (b) updating and rational-
ization of transport regulations; and (c) restructuring of transport sector
parastatals, especially those incurring losses, including their privatization
or closure if justified.  Of the above, proper pricing of transport services
and adequate cost recovery are issues particularly in (i) road user charges;
(ii) railway tariffs; and (iii) airport tariffs; and these will be addressed
under the proposed project. A program to raise adequate road user charges has
been  agreed  with  Government  (para 2.13).   Current  railway  subsidies  and
actions needed to reduce them, and related credit covenants, are discussed in
para 2.23. In airports, a partial subsidy exists on the operations of the new
Ghana Civil Aviation Authority, and Government has agreed to reduce them under



- 11 -
a phased program, as discussed in para 2.27. The inadequate cost-recovery in
the road transport parastatals will be addressed as part of their reorganiza-
tion and restructuring under the PEP, since their losses are more due to their
inefficiency and overstaffing than to subsidized tariffs (para 2.34).
2.33      Although  the Government has  recently  followed a positive policy
towards establishing a market-oriented transport system, there is no institu-
tional framework for policy discussions between the private sector and the
MTC, which is essential for building a climate of mutual confidence. There is
also lack of clarity about Government's new policies, especially where the
past regulatory framework provided conflicting signals.   A commitment from
Government  on  continuing  the  present  generally  liberal  policies  and  for
improving the environment for private sector initiative, is therefore
essential.   It has been agreed during negotiations that Government will set
up, before June 30, 1988, a "Transport Policy Review Committee," with repre-
sentatives from Government, the Chamber of Commerce, and other private trans-
port agencies, which should meet every quarter to review mutual problems in
improving transport services, and the transport market and its operations.
2.34      The main issues facing the transport parastatals are inefficiency,
overstaffing and, in many cases, financial losses and Government subsidies.
With the exception of GPHA and GH, all the transport entities are running at a
loss, although direct revenue subsidy from the Government is being given only
to GRC and GCAA. Proliferation of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) was a cause
of past economic failures of Ghana.  The PEP, which will address parastatal
reforms as part of a national program (para 2.25), will cover the reform of a
number of transport parastatals (BSL, STC, OSA, CES) while the most essential
ones for sound operation of the transportation sector, such as GRC and GCAA,
are covered under the proposed project.   Various Government actions are in
progress to reform the transport parastatals, and new actions are proposed
under the PEP (Annex 2-10).
2.35      The Government prepared in  1985 and updated in 1986 the 1986-88
Public Investment Program (PIP).  Government has agreed to prepare a PIP for
1988-90, in consultation with IDA, before January 1988; release of the second
tranche of IDA's SAC (Cr. 1777-GH) is conditional on completing this major
effort for which work is currently under way. The 1986-88 PIP provides for a
total investment in all sectors of about 245 billion cedis (US$1,630 m equiva-
lent).
The total transport sector will absorb about 40% of total PIP, most of it for
rehabilitation.   All components under the proposed project are part of the
1986-88 PIP and also of the 1988-90 PIP now under preparation. While the PIP
indicates Government's commitment to the project's priorities, implementation
is subject to the availability of co-financing.   In the case of commercial
public sector undertakings, implementation is subject to suitable commercial
credit or own funds being available.  As of January 1987, only about 60% of
the 1986-88 PIP had been fully funded; discussions for further co-financing
are in progress. Details are given in Annex 2-11.
2.36      The Government's annual capital budget and PIP, however,  reflect
fully-funded components of PIP.  The 1987 PIP, including secured funding but
excluding financing from commercial sources, amounted to 53.7 billion cedis.
The share of the transport sector in the 1987 PIP is 45% with 27% for roads.
About 50% of the transport sector investments in 1987 is from foreign conces-
sional financing and the rest from Government budget sources.  Government's
1987 budget for roads is given in Annex 2-12.  For the transport sector in



- 12 -
particular, a detailed joint review of a three-year rolling investment program
and a six-monthly review of implementation progress have been agreed under
RRMP.  In order to ensure adherence to priorities in the sector, the Govern-
ment agreed during negotiations to:  (a) continue until 1992, before the end
of each year, the annual joint review of Government's three-year PIP and
annual public expenditure programs in the transport sector; and (b) consult
IDA before undertaking major new transport investment projects costing more
than US$5 m equivalent, not included in the PIP or in the annual program.
I. Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector
2.37      Apart  from  an  engineering  credit  for US$1.5 m  in  1969  for  the
preparation of road projects, the Bank Group has provided four highway cred-
its/loans to Ghana. The First Highway Project (Credit 438-GH for US$13.0 m in
1974) was  fully disbursed by February 1981.   The  Second  Highway  Project,
(Credit 594-GH for US$10.0 m and Loan 1182-GH for US$18.0 m in FY75) was
completed in 1983.  The Bank's combined audit report for both projects noted
that while the projects' physical achievements investments yielded acceptable
economic returns, their institution building objectives were only partly met.
The Third Highway Project Emergency Maintenance Project (Credit 1029-GH for
US$25.0 m, approved in FY80), was completed in December 1986; although delayed
in execution, the project provided critically needed assistance for road
maintenance.  The transport components of the project are nearing completion.
The most recent road project is the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (RRMP) Credit 1601-GH for SDR 40.4 m, with an additional SDR 10.1 m
from the Bank's Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa,  and cofinanced by Japan,
African Development Bank, UNDP and the World Food Program.  The credit became
effective in November 1985 and is progressing satisfactorily although execu-
tion is about six months behind schedule.  A more detailed assessment of the
status of execution of this project is contained in Annex 2-4.
2.38      The Railway Rehabilitation Project approved in 1981 (Credit 1170-GH
for US$29.0 m, with co-financing from the African Development Bank) experi-
enced many initial implementation problems and delays.  The project will be
completed in December 1987.  The Ports Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1674-GH
for US$24.5 m) was approved in March 1986, with co-financing from OECF, EEC
and the Saudi Fund (US$71.3 m).  The project is progressing well, and manage-
ment assistance has already improved port capacity to some extent.  The Bank
also provided during 1983-85, four program-type emergency credits for import
and export rehabilitation, and the Accra District Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1564-GH), all having transport components covering, in part, road
transport, ports, railways and urban roads.  Reconstruction Imports Credit I
(RIC I) has been successfully completed, and the others are all making satis-
factory progress.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The project will complement and reinforce IDA's ongoing assistance
to Ghana in support of its ERP. The aim of the project is to sustain and help
consolidate the momentum of Ghana's economic recovery by: (a) removing physi-
cal bottlenecks to the expansion of exports, farm production and labor mobili-
ty through better maintenance and further rehabilitation of the transport
infrastructure; (b) raising the efficiency of the transport sector through i)
promotion of market-oriented policies, (ii) increasing involvement of the



- 13 -
private sector, (iii) strengthening transport institutions, and iv) improving
productivity; (c) facilitating rural transport by promoting appropriate
low-cost technology; and (d) reducing transportation costs for both goods and
passengers.  The project forms part of Ghana's 1986-88 investment program and
the  new  1988-90  investment  program  now being  prepared  (para 2.33).   IDA
involvement will complement and reinforce its ongoing assistance to Ghana in
the transport and other sectors, which is beginning to pay off in a quickened
pace of economic recovery. It follows up earlier credits dedicated to better
maintenance and more efficient management in the crucial transport sector.
IDA's help is needed not only to ensure appropriate policy reform but also to
attract potential co-financing support for the priority physical investments
that still need to be made under the Government's transport rehabilitation
program.
B. Project Description
General
3.02      The main thrust of the project will be road maintenance and rehabil-
itation (73% of total project costs) and railway rehabilitation (22%), with
associated technical assistance; support for transport sector institutions
(3%); and pilot programs in support of small-scale private road transport and
low-cost rural transport (2%). The main project components and sub-components
are described below.
(a) Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
(i) a two-year (1988-89) time-slice of GHA's and DFR's road mainte-
nance programs, including clearance of maintenance backlogs;
(ii)  technical  assistance  for project  supervision  and management
strengthening at MRH, GHA and DFR.
(iii) rehabilitation of about 512 km of the Kumasi-Paga Road; and
(iv)  a bridge rehabilitation program.
(b) Railway Rehabilitation Program
(i) rehabilitation of the Eastern and Central lines (302 km and 79
km respectively) and provision of essential rolling stock and
other inputs to increase overall capacity; and
(ii)  technical assistance for management support and training.
(c) Support for Transport Sector Institutions
(i) strengthening MTC's organization including policy studies and
institutional reforms;
(ii)  management support to GCAA;
(iii) improvement of road safety and traffic management;
(iv)  training programs for road transport and GCAA; and



- 14 -
(d) Pilot Programs for Road Transport and Rural Transport
(i) a credit facility and technical assistance for small vehicle
workshops, spare parts reclamation, a freight terminal, and for
the commercial production of low cost non-motorized vehicles;
and
(ii) assistance to develop and promote low cost non-motorized
vehicles suitable for use in rural areas and small towns.
(e) Support for Infrastructure Planning
(i) support for infrastructure planning to be undertaken by the
National Planning Commission (NPC).
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation (Map IBRD No. 20609)
3.03      The project will help, increase maintenance capacity and financing
during 1988 and 1989 to a level which, if sustained to 1992, will substantial-
ly clear routine and periodic maintenance backlogs as proposed under the road
stabilization program (para 2.09).  This two year program consists of: about
1900 km of regravelling, 150 km of resealing, 780 km of resurfacing and
improvement of trunk roads; about 1800 km of regravelling and rehabilitation
of feeder roads; and more intensive routine maintenance for the trunk and
feeder road networks (Annex 3-1) as shown in part in the table below.
Road Maintenance Program (1988-92)
(Costs in mid-1987 prices, excluding contingencies)
Total
Periodic Maintenance        Routine Maintenance       Maintenance
Year               Km             US$m                US$                 US$m
1988           2,260              34.0                6.0                 40.0
1989           2,370              34.0                6.0                 40.0
1990           2,650              34.0                6.0                 40.0
1991           2,760              34.0                6.5                 40.5
1992           2,900              34.0                6.5                 40.5
3.04      The above envisages a major increase in maintenance activity which
is feasible with the additional funding and technical assistance provided
under the project. For assistance in implementing the expanded maintenance
program, the project will provide 228 m-m of technical assistance, consisting
of 192 m-m for assisting GHA in field supervision and 36 m-m for expanding the
scope of work of the Project Management Unit  (PMU) set up under RRMP.  In
order to strengthen in-house planning and contract management capability and
to prepare for follow-on maintenance programs, the project will include 72 m-m
of technical assistance for DFR (36 m-m for planning,  24 m-m for contract
supervision/procurement,  and 12 m-m for training).   The project will also
include extension to DFR of the training programs for MRH and GHA currently
being provided under RRMP; the GHA training advisor under RRMP will prepare
details of such extension before September 30, 1988, for review with IDA.
3.05      The project includes provision of vehicles for GHA and DFR staff to
enable them to effectively supervise the enlarged maintenance program.  The



- 15 -
project also provides for limited housing (25 units) for DFR field staff, in
view of the extreme shortage of suitable accommodation in the field.
3.06      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the main targets for
the road stabilization program for 1988 - 1989, and details of part of the
1988 work program, which could be started in January 1988.   Government also
agreed to: (a) follow economic criteria acceptable to IDA, with a minimum of
15% economic return on road sections to be selected under the maintenance
program; (b) furnish to IDA, before March 31, 1988, list of priority road
sections to be included under the full 1988 program; (c) prepare and review
with IDA, before October 31, 1988, the detailed 1989 maintenance program, and
a five-year road maintenance and rehabilitation strategy and program for
1989-93, along with a review of the Government's funding increases needed to
finance the maintenance program; and (d) put into operation, by June 30, 1989,
an adequate management information and control system, in MRH, GHA, and DFR to
closely monitor the progress and expenditures on maintenance and rehabilita-
tion projects.
3.07      The Kumasi-Paga Road (576 km) is the main connection to the northern
part of the country, linking the ports and Kumasi to the main markets and
towns of Techiman, Tamale, Bolgatanga and Paga at the border with Burkina
Faso. The road is a main artery for the movement of food crops, exports and
imports,  and passengers.   One section  (48 km) is being rehabilitated with
Government  and  donor  financing.   The  project  includes  rehabilitation  of
priority sections totalling 512 km in length to their previous paved standard;
the remaining short sections will be resealed later (see Annex 3-2).
3.08      IDA-financed bridge rehabilitation studies have established a list
of priority bridges for urgent rehabilitation and reconstruction.   Fifteen
bridges were  included under  the RRMP.   The proposed project  includes  20
priority bridges (Annex 3-3).
Railway Rehabilitation Program (Maps IBRD No. 20607 and 20627)
3.09        The track part of the railway component, estimated at US$17.0 m
(excluding taxes) and financed by an Italian Government credit, will consist
of rehabilitation of weak sections of the Eastern and Central lines track,
with complete track renewal on the very critical sections and only sleeper
renewal on the less critical sections. It is proposed to make the Eastern and
Central lines safe for speeds up to 30 mph., which is considered adequate for
the projected levels of traffic on these two lines.  The project also covers
essential equipment and tools needed for the rehabilitation works, and they
could be used for routine maintenance after the project.  Thereafter, only
spare parts needed for the upkeep of the machines would have to be procured
under the recurrent budget.
3.10      The signalling and telecommunications part (costing about US$13.0 m
financed  from the  Italian  credit)  will  provide  signalling  of a standard
sufficient to ensure safety and adequate telecommunications facilities needed
to operate efficiently the Eastern and Central lines.   Inputs for overall
system support include three new main line locomotives and 20 oil tank wagons
needed to replace over-aged and defective equipment; and spare parts for the
rehabilitation and repair of rolling stock (US$1.4 m).  The program of replac-
ing journal bearings of old wagons by roller bearings started in the previous
project wi'll be extended to some 200 more wagons.  Some overaged and obsolete
machine tools in the workshops would also be replaced with modern equipment.



- 16 -
3.11      The Performance Agreement  (Contract Plan)  between Government  and
GRC, which is under preparation (para 2.23) and the Project Agreement to be
signed between GRC and IDA as part of credit documentation will formalize the
efficiency targets to be fulfilled under the project; these are detailed in
Annexes 2-8 and 2-9.
3.12      Management and operational support will be provided by technical
assistance (both local and foreign) for about three years in critical areas:
(a) financial management;  (b) traffic,  commercial and marketing management;
(c) engineering;  and  (d) project supervision.   About  104 m-m of technical
assistance for management and operations, and about 280 m-m.of project super-
vision support are envisaged of which a substantial portion will be from
Ghanaian experts (Annex 3-4).  The technical assistance support will help GRC
management tide over a period of difficult adjustments during the next three
years, when significant structural changes are expected to take place includ-
ing cost reductions through higher operating efficiency, staff reductions,
redesign of traffic patterns, and adaptation as a commercial entity.   The
proposed technical assistance is necessary to raise the gains of the institu-
tion-building component of the first project above the self-sustaining thresh-
old and thus contribute to the success of the Performance Agreement (para
2.23). The much larger technical assistance component under the first project
has already improved railway operations and enabled Ghanaian management to
take over senior positions.  Appointment of a traffic management expert for
GRC will be a condition of disbursement of IDA funds to GRC.
3.13      The training component would cover the cost of equipment for the
training school and fellowships for the staff in middle management and above,
and for management training abroad. The lower level staff would be trained in
GRC's training school with the trainers trained under the ongoing railway
project (see Annex 3-4 for details of the rail component).
Support for Transport Sector Institutions
3.14      The strengthening of MTC's organization will help MTC to put its
planning, policy and implementation framework on a sound basis for the medium
term following its preoccupation until now with short term emergency type
issues. Components include:  (a) provision of a technical advisor (36 m-m) to
help MTC's PID (para 2.28) supervise transport parastatals, provide financial
overview and advice, and implement TRP component (other than road and rail
components) and other projects in which MTC is involved; (b) an organization
and management study of MTC  (6 m-m); sector policy and project evaluation
studies, to assist in policy formulation and transport planning, by consul-
tants (62 m-m) and by PID, and (c) provision of essential office equipment and
office facilities. UNDP is expected to supplement these components by provid-
ing a planning expert, an information specialist and other support for about 2
years from mid-1988, essentially as a continuation of the UNDP's successful
ongoing program to strengthen transport planning.  UNDP's final decision in
this matter is expected by June 1988. During negotiations, Government agreed
to consult IDA on the composition and timing of the UNDP program (Annex 3-5
gives details of IDA and UNDP assistance for transport planning).
3.15      Management support to GCAA will include provision of a financial
management expert (24 m-m) and accounting specialists (12 m-m) to advise GCAA
on financial and tariff policy and cost recovery, and to assist in setting up
a commercial accounting system in this relatively new organization.



- 17 -
Supplementary assistance from French or Canadian bilateral aid for a
substantial strengthening of GCAA management is also expected (para 2.27).
3.16      Reduction of road accident rates requires a comprehensive, coordi-
nated and multi disciplinary approach.  A Road Safety and Traffic Management
program has been successfully prepared jointly by IDA and Government, and the
proposed project will finance implementation of its first phase (Annex 3-6).
3.17      The training programs include courses and seminars for: (a) middle-
and upper-level staff of MTC and GCAA to improve planning and management
skills; (b) key officials of private sector road transport and garage associa-
tions to improve road transport organization and management; and (c) small
garage owners, mechanics and bus/truck drivers to improve vehicle maintenance
and road safety. The training programs will help provide much needed improve-
ments in the efficiency and quality of transport management and operations
through (a) improving the quality of management at MTC by the provision of a
training  advisor  to assist  on  all  training programs;  (b) upgrading  road
transport organization of the private sector, particularly of their associa-
tions; (c) raising the quality of vehicle maintenance sector-wide; and (d)
improving road safety. The programs will also finance a manpower and training
needs study for the transport sector (para 2.29). Management training will be
conducted through local institutions and through training fellowships abroad.
The training programs will cover over 2,700 individuals over four years from
mid-1988 through courses ranging from one week to three months.  In order to
carry out this task, the project will finance: (a) training equipment and
materials; (b) additional instructors; (c) short-term technical assistance;
and (d) additional tuition costs per trainee. The project will also finance
purchase of buses for trainee transport, and recruitment of a training advi-
sor, and organization of seminars and fellowships. Garage and road transport
associations have agreed that they or the trainees will make an affordable
contribution toward the cost of training (Annex 3-7).
Pilot Programs for Road Transport and Low Cost, Rural Transport
3.18      The project will finance a credit  facility to provide  lines of
credit on commercial terms and conditions, through the Social Security Bank
(SSB) to help private enterprise finance improved vehicle repair capability,
quality and productivity. The major components of the credit program will be
to support viable sub-projects to finance: (a) tool and small equipment for an
estimated 400 small scale workshops in the garage complexes at Kumasi and
Accra; (b) a spare parts reclamation unit; (c) first phase of a multi-stage
freight terminal in Kumasi owned mainly by a private road transport owners
association; and (d) commercial production of low cost, non-motorized trans-
port vehicles. The SSB, the second largest commercial bank in Ghana, will
channel the US$1.4 million credit facility to the transport sector.  The SSB
has agreed to adopt a statement of policy and procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Annex 3-8 outlines the credit program, while Annex 3-9 presents a statement of
onlending policy and procedures for processing lines of credit. Signing of a
subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between SSB and the Bank of Ghana
(BOG) as fiscal agent for the Government will be condition of disbursement of
funds for the credit facility.
3.19         The project will assist in the introduction of  (a) small farm
vehicles, used on a large scale in China and recently in India, specially
re-designed to suit production and use in Ghana; (b) bicycle-trailers and
other adaptations for use in northern towns in Ghana where bicycles are



- 18 -
popular (Annex 3-10).  The project includes technical assistance for develop-
ing low cost vehicles, for organizing technical and managerial aspects of the
parts reclamation program and the freight terminal, and for helping the SSB to
become a more effective and efficient financial institution, particularly in
the provision of small-scale credits.
Support for Infrastructure Planning
3.20      The  project  includes  technical  assistance,  training  and  office
equipment to support infrastructure planning to be undertaken by the National
Planning Commission.   In view of the early stage of establishment of NPC,
precise details of this assistance will be finalized between Government and
IDA during 1988 (para 2.28 and Annex 3-5).
3.21      A PPF advance of US$1.4 m was approved in May 1987 to finance (a)
detailed engineering studies for the road maintenance program for the
Kumasi-Paga road rehabilitation and bridge rehabilitation; (b) technical
assistance for management strengthening needed in preparation for project
implementation in GRC; and (c) studies to finish preparation of the road
transport components.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.22      The estimated total cost of the project is US$213.8 m equivalent
(including taxes, physical and price contingencies but excluding interest
during construction) with a foreign exchange component of about US$148.8
equivalent or 68% of project cost. Import duties and taxes on project related
imports are estimated at US$21.6 m equivalent.  Costs have been estimated at
June 1987 prices, and at the exchange rate of US$1 = 160 cedis. Costs include
physical contingencies tailored to each project component, averaging about 7%
of base  cost.   To estimate the price  contingency,  rates of inflation on
foreign costs have been applied to both local and foreign costs, assuming that
any significant divergence in foreign and local rates of inflation would be
corrected by exchange rate  adjustments.   The  foreign  inflation rates  are
estimated at 3% for 1987, 1.0% during 1988-90, and 3.5% during 1991-93.
3.23      Cost estimates for the road maintenance program and the rehabilita-
tion of the Kumasi-Paga Road are preliminary, but are based on past experience
in other recent projects and on actual costs of recent bids. Bridge rehabili-
tation costs are based upon recent bids for similar works. Cost estimates of
equipment for railway rehabilitation are based upon recently quoted interna-
tional prices.   A total of 376 m-m of technical assistance,  including an
estimated  180 m-m for local consultants,  excluding works  supervision  and
training, would be provided under the project.  Cost estimates were reviewed
and confirmed during negotiations. (Annex 3-11).
3.24      The project financing plan is summarized in the table below with
details in Annex 3-12.



- 19 -
Financing Plan Summary
(USS Million)
Finance Sources
Total Cost Including              Private
Part              Component                 Contingencies    IDA    Gov.   Sector  Co-financiers
A    Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation     140.3         41.2   30.9     --        68.1
B    Railway Rehabilitation                   41.8          9.4    --      --        32.4
C    Institutional Support and Training
for Transport Sector                     4.9         4.9    --       --          --
D    Support to Road Transport Industry
and Low Cost Rural Transport             2.8         2.0    --    0.8            --
E    Support to National Planning Commission   1.0          1.0
F    Repayment of PPF Advance                  1.4          1.4    --      --         _
TOTAL PROJECT COST (Net of Taxes)       192.2        60.0   30.9    0.8        100.5
Taxes                                    21.6               21.3    0.3
Total (Including Taxes) (Rounded)       213.8        60.0   52.2    1.1        100.5
Interest during Construction (GRC Investments) 8.6     -     8.6      -          -
Total Financing Required                222.4        60.0   60.8    1.1        100.5
IDA will finance US$60 m equivalent,  or about  31% of total project costs,
excluding taxes.   IDA will cover 56% of the cost of the road maintenance
program  including  bridges,  excluding  Kumasi-Paga  Road  Rehabilitation.   In
addition to the road maintenance program, IDA will finance: (a) technical
assistance, training, tools and equipment, and some workshop improvements for
the railways; (b) technical assistance, institutional support and training for
the transport sector including NPC;   (c) pilot components for onlending to
small transport sector enterprises and to promote low cost transport; and (d)
repayment of PPF advance.  Government expects the following cofinancing:  (a)
about US$30 m equivalent from Government of Italy for rehabilitation of
central and eastern lines; (b) about US$2.8 m equivalent from CIDA, Canada,
for railway locomotives and wagons, (c) about US$48.0 m equivalent from Japan
for the Kumasi-Paga road rehabilitation, for which Government has requested
Japanese aid, and (d) about US$20 million from other sources (potentially
African Development Bank or Japan) for part of the road maintenance program.
Confinancing  for  (a) is due to be finalized by February  1988.   Government
expects commitment for (b) by mid-1988, and for (c) by August 1988. Delay in
these items will not disrupt other project components since these are
independent  items.   For  item  (d)  cofinancing  prospects  are  good,  and
Government has agreed to provide the shortfall in funds if cofinancing for it
is not  committed by end-1988.   Item  (d)  consists  of about  4 civil works
contracts for road maintenance that can be separated from the IDA financed
program, and delay in this part will not constitute any risk to the IDA
financed part of the maintenance program.   The Government will fund about
US$41.7 m equivalent for periodic and routine maintenance of roads from the
Road Fund and budget, including related tax components.  The Government will
also fund taxes of about US$10.4 m equivalent due on other road components and
the railways. Ghanaian private sector will finance about US$1.1 m equivalent,
covering local costs, including cost of land for the freight terminal.   The
above financing arrangements have been confirmed during negotiations.



- 20 -
3.25      US$9.4 m equivalent of the IDA credit for financing of part of the
cost of the improvements of the railway component would be onlent to GRC by
the Government at 8% interest with repayment period of 20 years including 7
years of grace.  The foreign exchange risk will be borne by GRC.  Government
agreed during negotiations to make a best effort to include similar onlending
terms for the funds provided for the railway project by cofinancers.   The
"interest during construction" on the railway components will be treated as
Government  equity  contribution  to GRC.   Signing of satisfactory onlending
agreement between the Government and GRC, with the onlending terms and condi-
tions as detailed above would be a condition of disbursements for the railway
component. It was also agreed that the Government will make available to the
private commercial bank participating in the program (the Social Security
Bank), lines of credit for the private sector amounting to about $1.4 m to be
channeled through the Bank of Ghana (BOG), which will act as an agent of the
Government and will lend at its prevailing lending rate, currently 23.5% in
cedi terms, to the SSB, with a repayment period of 12 years including 3 years
of grace. The SSB would onlend IDA resources at the prevailing commercial bank
lending rate,  currently  26%,  in cedi  terms.   The  sub-loans would have a
maximum loan term of 8 years with 3 years of grace.  Signing of a subsidiary
credit agreement between BOG and SSB will be a condition of disbursement for
this component  (para 3.18).   About  US$0.6 m  to finance  the promotion of
low-cost transport and technical assistance for organizing other pilot
components and the credit facility would be in the form of grants from the
Government.
D.   Implementation
3.26      The road and bridge components  will be implemented by MRH through
GHA and DFR, with the assistance of the Project Management Unit (PMU) in MRH
which will also manage procurement of roads components, and coordinate the
road maintenance, bridge rehabilitation and Kumasi-Paga Road rehabilitation
components, all of which will have separate engineering consultants for works
supervision.  Consultants for assisting GHA in the field supervision of its
maintenance program will be appointed before June 30, 1988. These arrangements
and terms of reference for PMU and other consultants were confirmed during
negotiations. The railway component, with the exception of the signalling and
telecommunications will be implemented by GRC, which has gained good experi-
ence in executing the ongoing railway project. The signalling and telecommu-
nications will be executed through turn-key contracts supervised by GRC.
Management and supervision assistance and training provided under the project
will support GRC in implementation and supervision.
3.27      The  office  of  the  Chairman  of  Committee  of  Secretaries  will
implement the NPC component. All other project components will be implemented
or coordinated by MTC through its PID (para 2.28).  MTC will directly handle
technical assistance components for sector studies, planning, GCAA reorganiza-
tion, and the Road Safety Program, with the help of a Technical Advisor
(implementation); Government has agreed to appoint such Technical Advisor
before June 30, 1987. PMU will provide necessary assistance to MTC for items
to be procured by MTC.  In addition, it was agreed at negotiations that MTC
will employ, before January 31, 1988 a qualified accountant to facilitate
project  implementation.   For  other  items,  MTC  will  work  through  other
concerned agencies as follows:
(i) the training programs for road transport will be implemented
through four training institutes.  For this work, MTC will be
assisted by a training advisor  (24 m-m) provided under the



- 21 -
project, and a training officer to be appointed in MTC on a
long-term basis, who will also work as counterpart to the
training adviser. The Government agreed during negotiations to
appoint a training advisor before March 31 1988, and to set up
before April 31, 1988, a Training Steering Committee in MTC
with representatives from the training institutes and benefi-
ciary organizations.  Government also agreed to the signing of
subsidiary grant agreements between MTC and each training
center.
(ii)  for the credit program for road transport the BOG will be the
fiscal agent, which will pass on funds to the SSB for onlending
to the sub-borrowers in the private sector for the designated
sub-components under terms agreed with IDA (para 3.25).
(iii)  for intermediate transport, the Technology Consultancy Centre
(TCC) will be the main implementing agency for the demonstra-
tion phase of the pilot project for farm vehicles and cycle
trailers.   TCC  is  semi-autonomous,  with  its  own  separate
audited accounts, attached to the University of Kumasi and with
experience in implementing similar international aid projects.
The Bureau of Integrated Rural Development, Kumasi (BIRD) and
the Ghana Regional Appropriate Technology Industrial Services
(GRATIS) will assist in this work with sub-contracts with TCC.
TCC will take all technical decisions and prepare progress
reports.  MTC will sign a subsidiary grant agreement with TCC
on project implementation arrangements and payment terms.
3.28      Project implementation is likely to spread over 1988-1993, based on
a disbursement profile for IDA-financed transport projects in West Africa. It
is expected that the bulk of the project will be completed by 1991, since the
main project component is a 1988-89 time slice of the road maintenance pro-
gram, which may partly spill over to mid-1990. During negotiations agreement
was reached on the implementation schedule (Annex 3-13).
Status of Project Preparation
3.29       Selection of roads for a first phase of the 1988 road maintenance
program has been completed. These works, mainly for regravelling, could start
after January 1988, and will be partly financed under RRMP.  Detailed engi-
neering for the remaining 1988 program and for most of 1989 program should be
completed by consultants by March 1988; contracts based on competitive bidding
for these works should be awarded by September 1988.  For bridge rehabilita-
tion, feasibility and preliminary engineering have been completed by consul-
tants under RRMP financing, and detailed engineering is expected to be com-
pleted by end-January 1988. For the Kumasi-Paga Road, feasibility and prelim-
inary engineering financed under RRMP have been completed; detailed engineer-
ing for about 70% of this road is being done under a PPF advance and will be
ready by June 1988; the remaining 30% will be done as Phase II under the
proposed project.   For the railway components, the detailed engineering for
the track rehabilitation has been completed.   The signalling designs will
follow closely those on the Western line.   The bid specifications for the
radio telecommunications will be prepared by GRC.  GRC has already prepared
bid  specifications  for  the  locomotives.   Agreement  was  reached  during
negotiations on details of the training programs, road safety program, the



- 22 -
credit facility, and for various technical assistance inputs.
E. Procurement
3.30      The procurement arrangements are as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(IDA share in parenthesis)
(US$ Million)
Port Component                  ICB          LCB            Other         Total
A. Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance
(i) Road Maint. Program    36.0 (22.0)    27.5 (7.0)    30.0 (2.9)    93.5 (31.9)
(ii) Kumasi-Paga Rd Rehab    -    -        -    -       53.7 (0.5)    53.7 (0.5)
(iii) Bridge Rehab. Program   7.3 (6.5)     -    -        0.5 (0.5)      7.8 (7.0O
(iv) Technical Assist.& Studies   -    -   -    -        2.0 (2.0)      2.0 (2.0)
B. Railway Rehabilitation
(i) Rehab. of Eastern &
Central Lines            -    -        -    -       33.1  -        33.1   -
(ii) Improving Overall System    5.7 (5.2)  -    _       7.6 (4.2)    13.3 (9.4)
C. Support for Transport Sector
Institutions
(i) MTIC: Management Support  -    -      0.4 (0.4)     1.2 (1.2)      1.6 (1.6)
and Studies
(ii) Management Support to GCM   -    -    0.1 (0.1)     0.3 (0.3)      0.4 (0.4)
(iii) Road Safety Improvement  -    -       0.4 (0.3)     0.9 (0.9)      1.3 (1.2)
(iv) Sector Wide Training Program -    -   0.3 (0.3)     1.4 (1.4)      1.7 (1.7)
D. Support to Private Sector Road
Transport                   -    -       0.2 (0.1)      2.8 (1.8)     3.0 (1.9)
E. Support to NPC             -    -        0.3 (0.3)     0.7 (0.7)      1.0 (1.0)
F. Repayment of PPF Advance   -    -        -    -        1.4 (1.4)      1.4 (1.4)
TOTAL                      49.0 (33.7)    29.2 (8.5)   135.6 (17.8)    213.8(60.0)
3.31      All procurement activities under Parts A, B and C of the project
will be coordinated by MRH and MTC through their respective project agencies.
Procurement of part of the goods and services under Part D (other than that
covered by amounts onlent to sub-borrowers and covered by TCC) will be coordi-
nated by MTC.  Co-financed components under the project will be procured on a
parallel-financing basis and will follow the applicable guidelines of the
respective financing agency involved.   Goods and civil works contracts fi-
nanced by IDA would be carried out in accordance with IDA procurement guide-
lines, and consultants for technical assistance studies, training and project
supervision will be appointed following the relevant IDA guidelines. Govern-
ment agreed during negotiations that all procurement through ICB and interna-
tional shopping under the credit would be exempt from price inspection by the
Societe General de Surveillance (SGS).
3.32      Contracts for civil works estimated to cost individually more than
US$1 million and for goods more than US$200,000 would be procured by ICB.
Civil works estimated to cost less than US$1 million and goods valued from
US$60,000 to US$200,000 would be procured by LCB procedures, which have been
reviewed and are satisfactory.   For the civil works under LCB the contract
values are relatively small, and the works are scattered geographically over
different regions.  Adequate competition is expected under LCB as there are
sufficient number of qualified local contractors, who are being strengthened
under RRMP assistance. The maximum IDA disbursement for civil works under LCB



- 23 -
will be limited to US$8.0 m equivalent and for goods up to US$500,000. Goods
valued at less than US$60,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.5 m would be procured by competitive shopping based on at least three
quotations.  Spare parts and accessories which are of proprietary nature may
be purchased, with IDA agreement, under directly negotiated contracts with
sole suppliers or agents, within an aggregate ceiling of US$3.0 m.
3.33       For Part D of the project,  procurement  of goods  and  services
financed under the lines of credit to the private sector from local banks, and
for the low cost rural transport pilot program will be carried out under
standard commercial practices. Individual contracts in this category will not
exceed US$300,000 and the total value of all contracts will not exceed
US$1.5 m. The appropriations for private sector procurement will be monitored
by the participating commercial bank (SSB) whose standards for supervision of
procurement and procedures for review of commercial documents are acceptable
to IDA.
3.34      Bidders will be prequalified for ICB procurement of roads and bridge
works, and post-qualified for railway equipment.  For road maintenance works
procured under LCB, the Government maintains a list of registered contractors.
However, any contractor, domestic or foreign will be allowed to bid, and the
lowest evaluated bidder will be post qualified.  Goods manufactured locally
will be given a preferred margin of up to 15% or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is less. Domestic contractors will have a 7.5% preference for civil
works contracts under ICB.  Procurement decisions for all transactions under
IDA financing in excess of US$200,000 equivalent will be subject to prior
approval by IDA.
F. Disbursements
3.35      The project is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1993.
The IDA credit would be disbursed against the following categories.



- 24 -
Allocetion and Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA AMOUNT       % of Fxpenditures
Category                                Description                                (USS MILLIONS)    to be Financed
1       For Part A of the Project: Road Rehabilitation                              37.0
(a) Equipment and Materials, including vehicles                             0.5
(i) Directly Imported                                                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(ii) Locally Purchased                                                                       85%
(b) Road and Building Works (civil works)                                  26.2   100% of foreign costs and
60% of local costs l/
(c) Bridge Rehabilitation Works                                              5.9   100% of foreign costs and
75% of local costs 2/
(d) Consultant Services, Auditing Services, Studies and Training 4.4                             100%
2       For Part B of the Project: Railway Rehabilitation                            8.7
(a) Equipment and Materials including vehicles                               5.1
(i) Directly Imported                                                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(ii) Locally Purchased                                                                       85%
(b) Consultants' Services and Training                                       3.6                 100%
3       For Part C of the Project:                                                   4.3
Support for Transport Sector Institutions
(a) Equipment and Materials, including vehicles                             0.9
(i) Directly Imported                                                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(ii) Locally Purchased                                                                       85%
(b) Provision of Office Facilities Including building works                 0.3                   90%
(c) Consultant Services, Auditing Services, Studies                          1.5                 100%
(d) Training                                                                1.5                  100%
(e) Operating Costs and Project Related Travel Fxpenses                     0.1                   90%
4       For Part D of the Project:                                                   1.7
Pilot Programs for Road Transport
and Low Cost Non-Motor Transport
(a) Amounts Disbursed from lines of Credit                                  1.1                  100%
(b) Technical Assistance and Studies                                        0.5                  100%
(including demonstration programs)
(c) Equipment and Materials, including vehicles                             0.1
(i) Directly Imported                                                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(ii) Locally Purchased                                                                      854%
5       For Part E of the Project                                                    0.9
National Planning Commission
(a) Consultant Services, Studies and Training                                0.9                 100%
6       Repayment of PPF Advance                                                     1.4              Amount Due
7       Unallocated                                                                  6.0
TOTAL (Rounded)                                                             60.0
Footnotes
1/ Estimated as 70C of total costs.
2/  Estimated  as  90X  of  total  costs.
The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 3-14) generally follows the histor-
ical profile for IDA financed transport projects in West Africa.  The faster
disbursement in the early part of the project period reflects disbursement
against the 2-year time slice of the country's road maintenance program.
Special Accounts for IDA funds would be established in a commercial bank
authorized to deal in foreign currency and operated as follows: (i) for road
components, managed by PMU; (ii) for railway components, managed by GRC; (iii)
for the credit facility and for NPC, managed by the Bank of Ghana; (iv) for
all  other  MTC  related  components,  managed  by  MTC.   The  local  currency
contributions would be available from the Road Fund and from Government's
other budgetary allocations.   For the credit facility, the local funds would
be  provided  directly  by  the  private  sector.   During  negotiations,  the
Government agreed to: (a) cause MRH and GRC to present to the Association
annual and quarterly estimates of its project expenditures one month prior to
the start of each year and update quarterly by providing data one month prior
to the commencement of each quarter; and (b) furnish GHA, DFR and GRC the
funds to meet their expenditure needs for each quarter before the end of the
first month of each quarter.



- 25 -
3.36      An advance not exceeding US$3.7 m would be made to the Special
Accounts which should be opened within one month after the declaration of
effectiveness; the advance to individual Special Accounts will be as follows:
(a) PMU: US$2.5m,  (b) GRC: US$0.6 m, (c) MTC: US$0.3 m, (d) BOG: US$0.3 m.
The Special Accounts will cover all categories of expenditures, and be replen-
ished on the basis of application for reimbursements made by the respective
managing unit together with relevant supporting documents and bank statements.
Reimbursement requests should be submitted to IDA on a monthly basis irrespec-
tive of the amount involved.   IDA approved and eligible contracts for:  (a)
civil works and goods less than US$200,000 equivalent; (b) goods less than
US$60,000 equivalent, (c) consultancy contracts, training programs, studies
and courses less than US$20,000 equivalent; and (d) disbursements against the
credit facility, will be disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditures
(SOEs). The units which keep the Special Accounts would manage all accounting
records, but the preparation of supporting documents or SOEs would be the
responsibility of the respective spending unit, including SSB responsible for
the credit facility.
G. Accounting and Auditing
3.37      Each agency will establish separate  accounts  for its particular
components in accordance with accepted accounting principles, to record all
project expenditures and to maintain records on commitments, reimbursements
and the status of project funds.  With respect to the amount withdrawn on the
basis of SOEs, each agency will prepare and maintain records such as con-
tracts, invoices, and evidence of payments readily available for inspection.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that external auditors acceptable to the
Association would carry out audits of the Special Accounts, Project Accounts
including SOEs and MTC and PMU accounting records, and provide the audit
reports to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
3.38      The accounting, costing, budgeting and internal auditing systems are
well established at GHA, and the PMU has a well established adequate account-
ing system to monitor the road component.  Likewise, the Railway Rehabilita-
tion Project is helping GRC to set up an adequate accounting system.  Never-
theless, the accounting and auditing of GRC is an area of concern. GRC's main
problems developed when in late 1984 its fifteen year old computer broke down;
a new computer has been in place for about six months.  The 1983, 1984 and
1985 accounts, which have not yet been audited, are now ready for audit. GRC
agreed to present to IDA for its review GRC's audited financial statements for
fiscal years 1983 to 1985 as a condition of disbursement for the railway
component. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that auditing of GRC's
financial statements for fiscal year 1986 should be completed not later than
June 30, 1988. Local banks are adequately audited by external auditors.
H. Reporting and Monitoring
3.39      PMU in the MRH and the TPD in MTC will prepare consolidated quarter-
ly reports, based on progress reports submitted by their agencies (CHA, DFR,
GRC, Training Institutes, TCC, and the SSB. It was agreed during negotiations
that PMU and PID will furnish to IDA for its approval, before June 30, 1988
reporting requirements and key indicators for monitoring progress of the
project.   In addition, MTC will prepare a semi-annual report highlighting
progress in meeting Government's reform measures, and general policy and
institutional  changes  that  affect  the  sector.   Within  six months  of  the



- 26 -
completion of the project, the Borrower (through MRH and MTC) will prepare a
consolidated project completion report.
I. Environmental Impact
3.40      A substantial segment of the project is devoted to the road and
railway components, which will have no adverse effect on the environment
including Ghana's forest reserves.   In fact, this work will result in the
improvement of drainage in the vicinity of project roads and tracks, and in
the restoration of drainage to natural channels and thus avoid erosion and
siltation.   The railway track component includes the use of herbicides for
inhibiting the growth of weeds on the track. GRC has tested and standardized
on Erbotan and Atranax, which do not contain Alachlor, a known carcinogen.
There are no new manufacturing operations which would lead to waste disposal
and environmental contamination problems.
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF GRC
4.01      GRC's financial performance during the period 1983-1986 was poor,
however, in 1986 losses were lower than the ones the year before for the first
time in a decade (Annex 4).  This improvement is the result of good progress
in rehabilitating the Western line and on technical assistance financed under
the ongoing railway project (para 2.21).  Thus, freight in the Western line
increased by 43% in 1986, as compared to less than 25% in 1985.  In Janu-
ary 1986, tariffs were raised substantially and improved management practices
were introduced.  The working ratio in 1986 of the Western line was 157% as
compared with  the system-wide  ratio of  220%.   Notwithstanding  the recent
improvements, the financial situation remains critical due to excessive
staffing, abnormal increases of operating costs principally due to: (a) salary
increases; (b) the failure of Government to permit adequate tariffs increases
in 1987; (c) the gross inadequacy of bauxite freight rates and passenger
tariffs; and (d) the delay in the implementation of the mechanized accounting
and cost system (Annex 2-8).
4.02      Financial projections (Annex 4) are predicated on a strategy toward
financial  viability  that  includes  three main  components:   (a) minimizing
working expenses, principally in the area of staff costs, where any increase
of wages in real terms would come from savings due to reduction of total
number of staff and to increased productivity; (b) timely adjustments of
tariffs to keep charges at constant prices; and (c) eliminating the present
railway subsidy by recovering full costs for bauxite and manganese transported
from the mines. Thus the financial projections have been made on the assump-
tion that GRC would continue taking measures during the project implementation
period to (a) improve its financial performance to permit internal generation
of funds sufficient to cover all of its operating expenses; (b) make the
necessary investments and (c) cover its debt service without the need of
Government subsidies by 1992.  This will form part of the Performance Agree-
ment  (Contract Plan)  (para 2.23).   During appraisal,  it was found that an
immediate revision of tariffs for bauxite and passenger fares was needed.
These charges were very low, and did not even cover their respective variable
costs. GRC therefore in September 1987 made tariff increases for bauxite from
e 1.46 to ¢ 4.50 ton-km and a fare increase for passengers from ¢ .70 to
¢ 1.06 pass/km. These increases will strengthen GRC finances by bringing these
charges more in line with real costs by covering a larger proportion of
variable costs.



- 27 -
4.03      The financial projections assume recovery of traffic on the Central
and Eastern lines and continuous traffic increase on the Western line from its
present level of 573,000 tons to 940,000 tons, as well as reduction of person-
nel from the present level of 7,800 to 6,760 by 1990 and to 6,000 by 1995.
Consistent with these projections and in view of the need to reduce all
Government subsidies by 1992 and to ensure the future financial viability of
GRC, agreement was reached during negotiations that GRC will: (a) take all
necessary measures to attain a working ratio of at least 140% in 1988, to be
reduced every year to attain a ratio of 93% in 1991; 86% in 1992; 81% in 1993;
80% in 1994 and 76% from 1995 onward; and (b) maintain a debt equity ratio of
no more than 50/50 from 1995 onward (to that effect GRC not later than January
31, 1988 will review and update the current revaluation of fixed assets and
revalue such assets annually by indexation); and to obtain prior agreement
from the Association to increase its long-term debt if as a result of that
debt, the debt service coverage ratio would be less than 1.4 during the term
of the debt.
4.04      To further meet the financial viability objectives, GRC agreed at
negotiations to: (a) reduce staff every year from a current 7,800 to 6,760 by
1990 and to 6,000 by 1995; (b) introduce tariff increases (if necessary)
effective January 1 of each year starting in 1989 for all traffic (cocoa,
timber, petroleum, general cargo and passengers) to ensure compliance with the
agreed financial covenants as detailed in para 4.03; and (c) revise the tariff
structure taking into account the costs of services and market conditions, not
later than October 30, 1989, following the implementation of the cost account-
ing system by September 30, 1988.
4.05      In support of timely implementation of the foregoing operational
improvements, GRC agreed during negotiations on (a) a list of monitoring
targets (Annex 2-8, Attachment 1) for semi-annual reviews between the Associa-
tion and GRC.  The reviews will take place on May 31 of its fiscal year to
ascertain if GRC would meet the agreed targets in respect of such years. And
before October 31 in each fiscal year will review the possibility of GRC
meeting the agreed targets of the next following year. During these reviews,
GRC and the Association would evaluate the progress made in attaining the
targets and determine any corrective action that might need to be taken; and
(b) on October 31 and May 31 of each year as from October 31, 1988, GRC would
furnish to the Association for its review and agreement:  (i) its investment
plan, financial projection and monitoring targets for the current year and the
following three years; and reasons for failure to reach the targets; and
(ii) specific measures, as necessary, including adjustment to tariffs, cost
saving measures and enhancement of operational measures, to attain fully the
agreed performance and financial targets. These targets will be incorporated
into the Performance Agreement (Contract Plan).
4.06      To complement the actions that would be taken by GRC, the Government
agreed during negotiations to provide: (a) GRC with sufficient funds in a
timely manner to cover its share of required counterpart funds for capital
expenditures for each quarter before the end of each quarter, and operational
subsidies (including extraordinary subsidy to help GRC pay off excess
personnel in order to meet established staffing targets), (b) a subvention for
bauxite and manganese traffic, if the mining agencies cannot pay full rail
costs as tariff; and (c) the annual foreign exchange of US$1.5 m equivalent
needed for railway spare parts for maintenance for the years 1988-92, all in
accordance with  the  targeted  financial  objectives.   Government  agreed to
provide funds under (c) as three installments of 40%, 30% and 30% each year on



- 28 -
January  1,  April  1  and  October  1,  respectively.    IDA  will  withhold
replenishments into the GRC Special Account, if these Government payments are
delayed by more than a month.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Project Benefits
5.01      The main benefit of the proposed project would be a more efficient
and cost-effective transport system that would permit a higher level of
economic activity in the country.   The project would remove physical con-
straints in transport, reduce transport costs for goods and passengers, and
will effectively help exports, farm production and marketing, and the mobility
of people.   The economic return calculations presented here are based on
quantifiable benefits, mainly transport cost savings due to road and rail
improvements.  In addition, the project will produce substantial other bene-
fits which are difficult to quantify, and will also directly contribute to
poverty  alleviation.   Some  of  these  intangible  benefits  are  as  follows.
Rehabilitation of the Eastern and Central railway lines will prevent their
otherwise certain collapse in the next two or three years, and save for the
future a valuable asset built over decades; revival of these rail lines will
enable the whole railway system to become financially viable, help eliminate
the need for Government subsidies to the railways, and maintain employment for
over 2,000 railway staff employed for these lines.  The pilot projects to
assist the road transport sector and to provide lines of credit to small
garage owners will have important benefits in providing a model mechanism for
reaching the very small firms and service units in the country through commer-
cial credit, thus strengthening entrepreneurship.   Rural road rehabilitation
and promotion of more sustainable and affordable low-cost forms of transport
will particularly assist the poorer sections of society in reducing transport
costs, in improving farm productivity and in reducing head-loading which is a
burden generally carried by women and children. The road safety improvements
under the project will help reduce the high rate of road accidents and fatali-
ties.  The project will assist in creating employment both directly in road
works, and indirectly through expansion of farming and other economic activi-
ties.
Economic Return and Sensitivity
5.02      The project yields high economic returns, as presented in detail in
Annex 5.  The overall economic rate of return (ERR) on roads and railways is
34%. The Road Maintenance Program for trunk roads is estimated to yield an
ERR of about 47%, based on estimates for typical road sections.  Some road
sections selected may have lesser ERR, but it has been agreed with Government
that the minimum ERR on any section should be 15% (para 3.06).  The main
quantified benefits are the vehicle operating costs (VOC) saved due to road
improvements. The high ERR reflects the poor condition of existing roads and
the high VOC in operating on such roads. In the case of feeder roads, the work
involved is mainly restoring access to farms through "spot improvements", by
installing new culverts, improving drainage and carrying out other repairs.
Benefits would include avoided higher cost of head-loading, and some gains in
farm output and profitability.  Rough estimates based mainly on consultants'
studies in the Ejura region indicate an ERR of 25%. For the Kumasi-Paga Road,
the ERR ranges from 16% to 43% for different sections of the road, with a
weighted  average  of  29%  for  the  road  as  a  whole.   For  the  Bridge



- 29 -
Rehabilitation Program consultants have estimated an ERR exceeding 100%; a more
conservative estimate is about 70%. The return is high since the bridges are
already failed or about to fail, and the detouring costs of traffic is high
compared to the relatively small investments in rehabilitating the bridges.
For all road components together, the composite ERR is about 40%.
5.04      The Railway Rehabilitation Program would produce an ERR of about 25%
with 22% from the Eastern line and 27% from the Central line.  Overall rail
investments (22% of project costs) include system-wide investments benefiting
the Western  line as well.   The main quantified benefits  are avoided road
transport costs that, in the absence of the project, would have been necessary
to carry part of the estimated rail traffic.
5.05      Sensitivity tests show that if traffic levels and project benefits
were about 20% less than estimated, or if costs were higher by 10%, the ERR
for  most  road  components  would  still  be  above  20%.   Cost  and  benefit
variations beyond this range are considered unlikely. In the case of railway
rehabilitation, a 10% increase in costs would reduce the ERR to 22%, and a 20%
decrease in traffic, considered the worst-case scenario, would reduce the
base-case ERR from 25% to 16% (with ERR on the Eastern line declining to 14%);
this is still in the acceptable range, particularly because many social
benefits of avoiding the collapse of the railway system are not included in
the estimate of benefits. Traffic is obviously a critical factor in the case
of the railway.  Traffic projections used are conservative, based on recent
Bank projections for cocoa, timber and ore exports; and the estimate of rail
share is based on detailed origin/destination studies, comparative transport
costs (both financial and economic) between road and railways, and strong
customer preference.   Passenger traffic is based on restoration of traffic
levels reached around 1978-80.  By all economic and financial criteria, the
estimated rail traffic should be carried by the railways, in spite of road
competition,  provided a dynamic and commercially responsive management can
restore customer confidence, service reliability and efficiency, which is
feasible.
Project Risks
5.06      There are no significant risks associated with implementation of the
physical components of the project.  The main areas of project risks are: (a)
for the railways, timely implementation of tariff increases and staff reduc-
tion which are essential for meeting the railway's financial viability objec-
tives; provision by Government of necessary foreign exchange for purchase of
essential maintenance imports during 1988-90; and GRC's success in improving
its management; (b) for road maintenance, assuring the adequate level and flow
of  local  funds  from  Government.   Government's  commitment  in meeting  the
funding requirements in a timely manner has been obtained, which will be
reinforced by SAC conditions on funding the core budget.  There may be some
risk of not achieving full benefits from the pilot projects for road
transport, but the amounts involved are relatively small, and the potential
benefits far outweigh the associated risks.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS
6.01      During negotiations,  in addition to standard covenants, agreement
was reached on the following points:



- 30 -
(i) (a) the budget for road maintenance to be increased for 1988
through 1990, Government fund allocations being US$18 m
equivalent in 1988, US$19 m in 1989 and US$25 m in 1990, all in
mid-1987 prices; (b) the Road Fund to be maintained at least at
present levels; (c) Road Fund accruals to be released monthly,
and the remaining budget allocation released quarterly, in
advance, into the Road Maintenance Accounts of GHA and DFR; and
(d) IDA disbursements into road maintenance Special Account to
be withheld, if the agreed advance payments are delayed by more
than one month (para 2.12);
(ii)  to review and agree with IDA before June 30, 1989 progress made
in cost-recovery from road users and further steps Government
would take to achieve adequate cost recovery by mid-1990 (para
2.13);
(iii) to review with IDA, before January 31, 1988, the findings of
the Road Transport Sector Study and to agree before September
30, 1988, on an action program and timetable to implement
reforms (para 2.17);
(iv)  to sign a Performance Agreement (Contract Plan) between GRC and
Government before September 30, 1988, which will provide more
autonomy to GRC and define GRC's and Government's obligations;
and GRC to implement key performance and operational targets
agreed with IDA during negotiations (para 2.23);
(v) GCAA to (a) prepare before June 30, 1988, a study of its
financial and accounting system, and (b) prepare before
December 31, 1989 a cost-recovery program (para 2.27);
(vi)  a  Transport  Policy  Review  Committee  to  be  set  up  before
June 30, 1988; (para 2.33);
(vii) the annual joint review of Government's three-year PIP and
annual public expenditure programs to be continued until 1992,
and Government to consult with the Association before undertak-
ing major new investment projects costing more than US$5.0 m
equivalent (para 2.36);
(viii) (a) to follow the main targets for the road stabilization
program for 1988 - 1989, as agreed; (b) furnish to IDA before
March 31, 1987, details of the full 1988 road maintenance
program; (c) follow economic criteria acceptable to IDA, with a
minimum of 15% ERR on road sections to be selected; (d) prepare
and review with IDA, before October 31, 1988, the 1989
maintenance program, and a five-year road maintenance and
rehabilitation strategy and program for 1989-93, along with a
review of the Government's funding increases needed to finance
the maintenance program; (e) put into operation, by June 30,
1989, an adequate management information and control system in
MRH, GHA and DFR (para 3.06);
(ix) to consult IDA on the composition and timing of the UNDP
program for assistance to transport planning (para 3.14);



- 31. -
(x) to follow the agreed statement of onlending policy and
procedures for processing lines of credit through SSB (para
3.18);
(xi) Government to onlend US$9.4 m equivalent of IDA funds to GRC at
8% interest over 20 years including 7 years of grace, and to
make best efforts to have similar terms for onlending
cofinanciers' funds to GRC; Government to onlend US$1.4 m to
SSB for further onlending to small transport firms (para 3.25);
(xii)  GHA to appoint engineering consultants  for road maintenance
supervision before June 30, 1988 (para 3.26);
(xiii)  MTC to employ a qualified accountant before January 31, 1988; a
Training Advisor by March 31, 1988; and a Technical Advisor
(Implementation) before June 30, 1988 (para 3.27);
(xiv)  to  sign  subsidiary  grant  agreements  between  MTC  and  each
training center for the training program, and between MTC and
TCC for the pilot program for low cost transport (para 3.27);
(xv) procurement through ICB and international shopping to be exempt
from price inspection by SGS (para 3.31);
(xvi)  MRH and GRC  (a)  to present  to the Association  annual  and
quarterly estimates of its project expenditures one month prior
to the start of each year and update quarterly; and (b) Govern-
ment to furnish GHA, DFR and GRC the funds to meet their
expenditure needs for each quarter (para 3.35);
(xvii)  external  auditors  to  audit  the  Special  Accounts,  Project
Accounts including SOEs and MTC and PMU records, and provide
audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of each
fiscal year (para 3.37);
(xviii)  audits of GRC's financial statements for fiscal year 1986 to be
submitted no later than June 30, 1988 (para 3.38);
(xix)  project reporting requirements (para 3.39);
(xx) GRC to take all necessary measures to attain the working and
debt equity ratios called for in para 4.03 which include
reducing the present working ratio of 220% to 93% in 1991, 86%
in 1992, and 76% in 1995; GRC to reduce staff, continue tariff
increases and revise the tariff structure as spelled out in
para 4.04; and GRC to meet the monitoring targets for annual
review set forth in para 4.05;
(xxi)  Government to provide GRC with sufficient funds in a timely
manner to cover its capital expenditures, and operational and
maintenance subsidies according to a schedule agreed during
negotiations, and IDA to withhold payments into Railway Special
Account if these Government payments are delayed by more than
one month (para 4.06).



- 32 -
6.02      Conditions of Credit Effectiveness are: Government payment into the
Road Maintenance Accounts of GHA and DFR (i) at least 70% of the original 1987
budget for periodic road maintenance (the estimated 70% amount being 2.66
billion cedis for the year), and (ii) an initial amount of 700 million cedis
to meet estimated road maintenance needs for the first quarter of 1988 (para
2.12).
6.03      Conditions of disbursement are: for the credit facility, signing of
a subsidiary agreement between SSB and BOG (para 3.18); (b) for the railway
component, signing of an onlending agreement between the Government and GRC
(para 3.25); presentation to IDA of GRC's audited financial statement for
fiscal years 1983 to 1985 (para 3.38) and appointment of the traffic manage-
ment expert (para 3.12); and (c) for the training programs under each training
center, signing of grant agreement between MTC and the training institution
(para 3.27).
6.04      On the basis  of  the above  agreements,  the proposed project  is
suitable for a credit to the Republic of Ghana in the amount of SDR 46.9
million on standard IDA terms.
AF4IN
October 1987



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
TRANSPORT SECTOR
ORGANIZATION CHART
CHAIRMAN
PNDC   |
MINISTRY OF                       MINISTRY OF                                      MINISTRY OF
ROADS & HIGHWAYS                 TRANSPORT & COIfMUNICATIONS                       FINANCE & ECON.PLANNING
(MRH)                              (MTC)                                      AND OTHER MINISTRIES
PNDC SECRETARY                      PNDC SECRETARY                                PNDC SECRETARIES
STAFF                                                                                                            Li
DEPARTMENTS                                                                          TELECOMMUNICATIONS
& MAIL
DEPT. OF             GHANA               DEPT.OF       ADMINISTRATIO               PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION
FEEDER ROADS        HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY   URBAN ROADS          CHIEF                          CHIEF
DFR                (GHA)                (DUR)
DIRECTOR          CHIEF EXECUTIVE       DIRECTOR
AF4IN
October 1987



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINISTRY OF ROADS AND HIGHIWAYS
ORGANIZATION CHART
NC SECRETARY
| MRH                                                     REGIONAL
BUDGET                                                     STANDING
COMMITTEE                                                 CCOMMITTEES
STAFF    DEPARTMENTS
DIRECTOR                                                                DIRECTOR
TECHNICAL                                                              ADMINISTRATION
CHIEL                                                                   CHIEF
PERS. &                       FINANCE 8
MGT. TRG. |UNTING
GINEN            CIE
tTI
AF4IN
JULY 1987



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS
ORGANIZATION CHART (PROPOSED)
CHAIRMAN|
L PNDC l
MINISTRY OF
TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS
PNDC SECRETARY
ADMINISTRATION
CHIEF                                                            PLANNING AND IA4PLEMENTATION DIVISION
DIRECTOR                                                                CHIEF DIRECTOR
|  LANNING                 IMPLEMENTATION
L    NIT    ||& MONITORING
- Project Analysis &         - Transp. Policy
Transport Investment Plans   Implementation
- Budget                     - Supervision Transport
- Transport Policy Studies      Regulatory Agencies
- Transport Statistics &     - Overseeing Transp.
Publications                 Parastatals
- Project
Implementation
zj
AF4IN
SeDtember 1987



- 36 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Status of Ongoing Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
(Credit 1601-GH)
Introduction
1.        The Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project  (RRMP)   was
designed to contribute to the Government's economic recovery program by
removing road transport obstructions to the vital export/import trade
and the movement of domestic farm outputs and inputs. The objectives of
the project are to: (a) strengthen the road agencies under MRH and
revitalize road maintenance operations through support of increased
private sector participation and the introduction of improved management
in GHA and DFR coupled with staff incentives and systematic training
programs; (b) reduce transport costs and protect Ghana's large past and
future investments in the road sub-sector through improved maintenance;
(c) rehabilitate part of the most important trunk road in the country;
(d) foster the rehabilitation and recovery of the agricultural sector,
mainly through improved feeder road maintenance; (e) improve transport
planning and to reorient transport investment through careful selection
of high priority investments and increased emphasis on rehabilitation
and maintenance; and (f) assist in the rationalization of transport
policies, including adjustment of road user charges, thus ensuring
better mobilization and utilization of resources.
2.        The project is expected to be completed in December 1989 at an
estimated total cost of US$121.8 million.  The amount of IDA credit is
SDR 40.4 million.   Funds also include:  SDR 10.1 million from African
Facility Credit Agreement No. A-1 GH, Yen 700.0 million from Japanese
Grant Agreement No. 1601-1 GH, and US$1.1 million from UNDP.
Project Description
3.        To assist in fulfilling the objectives, the project provided
financial assistance for the following components:
(a)  three  year  (1986-88)  requirements  for  rehabilitation  and
maintenance of Ghana's trunk road network comprising:
(i) a three-year time slice of GHA's road maintenance pro-
gram, including regravelling, paved road resurfacing and
minor improvements, as well as road and equipment mainte-
nance management and support to domestic road contractors
through sub-loans with Bank for Housing and Construction
(BHC);
(ii) a technical assistance program, benefitting MRH, GHA,
DFR, BHC, and domestic road maintenance contractors;



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 5
(iii) a training program for staff of GHA and DFR;
(iv) project supervision and coordination;
(v) food aid and incentive program to reduce absenteeism and
to increase productivity of MRH and its agencies;
(b) a bridge rehabilitation program;
(c) a three year pilot feeder roads program with DFR, comprising
road and drainage improvements and maintenance, using appro-
priate technology; and
(d) rehabilitation of about 105 km of the Accra-Kumasi Road.
ImRlementation
4.        Trunk Road Maintenance Program - the trunk road network in
Ghana is in extremely poor condition, causing a negative impact on
economic  recovery  and  progress.   Currently,  about  42%  of  the  road
network is in poor condition, ranging from medium to severe failure.
RRMP's aim of increasing road maintenance coverage has been very modest,
with a total road maintenance program of about US$45m during the three
years 1986-88.  This program would mainly stop further deterioration of
the road system, and will make only marginal net improvements in road
conditions.
Technical Assistance Program
5.        Technical assistance to strengthen MRH, GHA, and DFR through
improvements in their organization, planning, project execution and
training capabilities  is now in progress.   In view of the expanded
program for road maintenance under the proposed project, and the in-
creased responsibility for cocoa roads recently undertaken by DFR, some
additional technical assistance inputs are considered essential to
supplement the RRMP.  These would consist of increased support to DFR
for strengthening its planning, project management and monitoring units,
further strengthening of GHA's field supervision capability, and an
improved  management  information  system  for MRH,  GHA and DFR.   The
proposed project will address these needs.
6.        Domestic road contractors play a key role in road maintenance.
As part of a strategy agreed with the Association, Government has made
consistent efforts to increase the share of private contractors in road
maintenance and to reduce force-account activities, as a means to
improve productivity.  At present, force account is limited mainly to
routine maintenance, and to a small share of periodic maintenance and
minor works being executed through GHA's two Mobile Maintenance Units
(MMU). Efforts are underway to increase the share of routine mainte-
nance done by contract through the wider use of single-man contractors



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 5
and contracts with timber companies to maintain roads in their neighbor-
ing areas. About 85% of the value of road maintenance, including minor
works, is currently done by private domestic contractors, and all major
road rehabilitation and construction works are done by domestic and
foreign  contractors.   The  capacity  and  efficiency  of  the  domestic
maintenance contractors has been improved through the RRMP.
Training Program
7.        The training program was designed to train maintenance engi-
neers, road superintendents, foremen and overseers, equipment operators,
drivers, mechanics, storekeepers and cost clerks engaged in road and
equipment  maintenance  operations.   It  is  estimated  that  about  200
GHA/DFR personnel are attending training courses in the first two years
(1987-88).
8.        After some initial delay, the training program is now moving
forward.   The  training  advisor  and  the  chief  of the Road Training
Production  Unit  (RTPU)  started working  in mid  1987.   The  training
program for mechanical personnel, prepared by consultants, was approved
and started in May 1987.  A select number of MRH/GHA/DFR staff have
participated in training abroad (international seminars/conferences).
9.        Project  Supervision  and  Coordination   To  provide  better
coordination between BHC, GHA, DFR and private domestic contractors and
to assist BHC and MRH agencies in the supervision of the various project
elements, a Project Management Unit (PMU) was established for the
duration of the project.  The PMU is staffed by an experienced team of
consultants  (about  130 m-m) supplied through a consulting firm,  and
supported by qualified local staff. PMU is an autonomous unit as far as
its management and coordinating functions are concerned.   These func-
tions will be gradually absorbed by the Monitoring and Evaluation
Department within MRH, which will eventually fully take them over. PMU
is training, through on-the-job demonstrations and courses, counterpart
staff of MRH, GHA, DFR and BHC, on all areas covered by PMU's functions.
PMU administers the procurement for domestic contractors under the
relevant authority of DFR, GHA and BHC. In addition, the PMU supervises
the operations of revolving funds set up under the project and related
disbursement requests for the various co-financiers.  THe PMU, through
assisting the domestic road contracting industry and MRH agencies in
developing sound prequalification and contracting procedures should, by
the end of the project, have established sustainable systems for cost
and financial accounting, procurement of supplies, competitive contract-
ing of road works, and effective contract management by the agencies and
private firms. It is expected that PMU will be continued under the TRP.
10.       Food Aid and Incentive Program.  Arrangements were made with
the World Food Program (WFP) to supply food imports to employees fo MRH
and its agencies, through GHA. The food aid is in items which will not
adversely affect local production.  In order to link the food aid with
increased productivity, norms for the food distribution has been estab-
lished.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 4 of 5
11.       The food for work distribution progresses well.  Under this
program, every GHA and DFR employee, from Chief Exe mtive or Director to
laborer, receives the following allowance per month (a symbolic payment
of about 20 to 30 percent of its value is discounted from payroll
checks): (a) rice: 20.625 kg, (b) vegetable oil: 2.25 kg, (c) canned
fish: 2.25 kg, (d) sugar: 1.50 kg.
12.       The project was revised to include equipping of a Government
building for MRH use, as a component under the incentive program.
13.       Bridge  Development  Program  The  Ghana  Bridge  Development
Program is a long-term, multifaceted project, which includes a coun-
try-wide bridge inventory, a classification of bridges according to
rehabilitation priority, evaluation and implementation of a bridge
maintenance system, preparation of detailed design and tender documents
for reconstruction of priority bridges and site supervision of the
works. Currently, 15 bridges are being rehabilitated under contract, as
part of this program.
14.       Pilot Feeder Roads Program - The three-year pilot feeder roads
program comprises (a) rehabilitating about 240 km of feeder roads in the
Sefwi-Wiawso district; (b) spot improvements along 700 km and routine
maintenance of 2,000 km in the Western, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo regions;
and  (c)  strengthening DFR's planning and maintenance capacity.   The
initial program is in the nature of a pilot effort with the intention of
gradually replicating it in other regions.   All work is essentially
labor intensive carried out by local contractors for road rehabilitation
and force account for spot improvements and maintenance. Equipment has
been made available to the contractors through sub-loans with BHC or
through rental arrangements with Plant Pool.
15.       The feeder roads program is managed by DFR with technical
assistance from the IL0. Following a preparatory period, the demonstra-
tion/training phase of the project was launched in January 1987.
Courses are run concurrently for trainees from contractor firms and DFR.
The courses have a duration of 17 weeks and include theoretical and
practical  training.   Some  55 trainees,  50 percent  from DFR and  50
percent from 7 contractor firms, have been trained by June 1987.
16.       DFR has been given the responsibility for the rehabilitation
of "Cocao Roads" in the six cocoa regions of the country.   Immediate
rehabilitation requirements are estimated to be in the order of 3,400
km. It is intended that part of these roads will be rehabilitated
through the application of labor-based methods.
17.       Rehabilitation of a Section of Accra-Kumasi Road.  The reha-
bilitation of the Anyinam - Kumasi section of the Accra - Kumasi Road is
included in the Project and is financed by AFDB.  The total cost of
works for this 134.5 km road section is currently estimated at $23.2
million, including 54.7 km of base reconstruction. The asphalt concrete
surface thicknesses are 65 mm over 112.5 km and 75 mm over 22.0 km. The
works are progressing well and a section of about 11 km has been



- 40 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 5 of 5
completed. Initially the extension was only 105 km but ADB eventually
raised it to the present length.
Summary
18.       Overall, RRMP is progressing well, with an average delay of
about six months. Road maintenance during 1986 and early 1987 was below
planned levels, mainly because of insufficient local funds. To resolve
this problem, Government agreed, during SAL negotiations, to allocate
3.7 billion cedis for periodic road maintenance during 1987 and to
protect it under the core budget. As of July 31, 1987, about 30% of the
IDA credit had been disbursed.  It is estimated in September 1987 that
only about 70% of this budget allocation may actually be released; this
will bring total periodic maintenance during 1986 and 1987 together to
levels envisaged under RRMP.
Note: Annex 3-1 gives details of road maintenance targets and other road
data.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Funding Needs of Road Stabilization Program
1986      1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
(Actual)                                to 1992
-- US$ Equivalent -----
A. COSTS
1. Periodic Maintenance (GHA/DFR)
Costs (including payment of arrears)
14.4      16.4    34.0    35.0    36.0    36.0
2. Routine Maintenance
Cost of Materials (USS m)                   0.3       3.0    6.0      6.0     6.0    6.0
Physical Contingencies (Future years; 8%)    -         -      3.2     3.3    3.4    3.4
Total Costs                                    14.7      19.4   43.2   44.3    45.4   45.4
B. FINANCING SOURCES
1. On-going Project (RRMP)
IDA                                         2.5       2.5    1.5
Cofinanciers                                 --       0.5     0.5
2. Proposed TRP-I
IDA                                          --        --   17.0    10.0    1.8
Cofinanciers                                 --        --    6.2   13.3    0.5
3. Future Project (TRP-II) (tentative)
IDA/Cofinanciers                            --                 --      --   18.0   20.4
4.  Government                                 12.2      16.4    18.0    19.0    25.0    25.0
Total Financing                                14.7      19.4   43.2   44.3    45.4   45.4
of which Government Contribution (%)            83%       85%     42%     43%     55%    55%
Notes: Excludes Government salaries, special Cocoa road costs, and CIDA support for
equipment repairs.
In mid 1987 prices; US$1 = e 160; the figures given above therefore exclude
price contingencies.
1987 figures assume actual spending/release of 70% of the original budget provision
of 3.8 billion cedis for periodic maintenance.
Phasing between 1988 and 89 is notional; more of the combined total for 1988-89 may
be spent in 1989 and less in 1988 than shown here.
1.          Government  contribution  for  road  maintenance  would  increase  in
absolute terms over 1986-90; however, its relative share would initially
decline after 1987 due to the proposed strategy of substantially expanding
maintenance works program to clear backlogs.   Annex 3-1, Attachment  3, shows
that road maintenance needs after the stabilization program would decline to
about US$27 m; therefore, the increase in foreign funding during 1988-92 would
be only a temporary phase; it will help Government to cope with the
substantial capital investments in clearing maintenance backlogs.



- 42 -                          ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 2
2.        In addition  to the  investments  proposed  in the above  table,  a
program  of  road  rehabilitation/  reconstruction  works   (on  key  roads
deteriorated beyond normal maintenance) costing about US$400 m equivalent
should be completed over the next seven years (1988-94), in order to clear
accumulated backlogs in severely deteriorated roads and to reach the proposed
stabilization target (Annex 3-1).  This is a feasible level at the rate of
foreign financing anticipated under the three year investment plan, for which
cofinancing is likely; these works are generally undertaken by foreign
contractors and supervised by foreign consultants, requiring minimal inputs
from Government agencies.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-6
REPUBLIC OF GEANA
TRANSPORT REHABILIIC!lON PROJECT
Road Transport Vehicle Statistics, 1979-85
Private Cars                       Tankers                                       Total
and                            and                                       Excluding
Year        Mbtorcycles             Taxis            Buses        Trucks         Tractors        Total       Mbtorcycles
1979           6,372              50,969            12,392         7,977           1,128        78,838         72,466
1980           5,751              47,872            14,649         7,411             861        76,544         70,793
1981           3,992              44,644            14,696         6,211             688        70,231         66,239
1982           5,678              50,449            16,261         6,119           1,221        79,728         74,050
1983           5,233              47,649            13,918         6,427             940        74,167         68,934
1984           4,663              40,404            11,355         6,082             802        63,306         58,643
1985           6,577              43,174            11,168         6,490             751        68,160         61,583
Notes:   Figures represent numbers of privately-owned vehicles having obtained roadworthiness certificates,
and exclude Governmnt vehicles.
Source: Ministry of Transport and Communications.
AF4IN
July 1987



- 44 -
ANNEX 2-7
REPUJBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABIL=TATION PRCUECT
Fuel Consumption Data 1970-1986
(tons)
% Change
Over Previous
Year                    Gasoline             Diesel Fuel             Total                 Year
1970                     172,212               194,016              366,228
1971                     190,680               199,180              389,860               +  8.2
1972                     199,180               214,600              413,780               +  4.4
1973                     200,752               219,534              420,286               +  1.6
1974                     210,461               216,913              427,374               +  1.7
1975                     227,002               233,331              460,333               +  7.7
1976                     239,342               238,313              477,655               +  3.8
1977                     228,235               295,770              524,005               +  9.7
1978                     256,553               278,190              534,743               +  2.1
1979                     216,860               265,766              482,626               -  9.7
1980                     245,800               282,300              528,130               +  9.5
1981                     263,500               295,600              559,100               +  6.0
1982                     247,600               255,600              503,200               - 10.0
1983                     181,200               231,800              413,000               - 18.0
1984                     178,000               223,100              401,100               -  3.0
1985                     213,000               281,000              494,000               + 23.0
1986                     227,000               285,000              512,000                + 3.6
Source:  Chana Supply Commission and Quarterly Digest of Statistics, December 1983,
for years 1970-1981;  Ministry of Fuel and Power for 1982 to 1986.
AF4IN
September 1987



- 45 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ghana Railways: An Overview of Present Situation and Future Strategy
Introduction
1.        The Ghana Railway Corporation (GRC) is a public-sector corpo-
ration which owns and operates Ghana's railway network.  The network,
consisting of 947 km of track, covers the "golden triangle" with its
three corners at Accra, Takoradi and Kumasi. The Western line, between
Kumasi and Takoradi, is the principal corridor for four principal
exports --  cocoa,  timber,  manganese  and bauxite.   The Eastern  line
carries cocoa and,petroleum products, and the Central line carries some
timber  and  cocoa'   All  the  three  lines  have  significant  passenger
traffic.
Ongoing Project's Status
2.        The on-going Railway Rehabilitation Project was designed with
two objectives in view:  (a) support Ghana's export drive for its four
principal export commodities by increasing the rail capacity through the
rehabilitation of the Western Line corridor; and (b) raise the institu-
tional efficiency of GRC through management technical assistance,
systems  building  and  extensive  training.    The  project  had  an
eighteen-month-late start due to political upheavals in the country and
associated  delays.   The  project  implementation  received  a  further
six-month set-back due to GRC's relative unfamiliarity with the Bank's
procurement procedures, and the then prevailing low level of credibility
of GRC among prospective suppliers, which inhibited their responses to
international bids.  As a consequence, the project completion has been
delayed by two years and the current completion date is December 31,
1987.
3.        Project implementation,  despite these delays and set-backs,
has been satisfactory.  Weak sections of track have been rehabilitated
and the derailments have been brought down from 38 in 1984 to 12 in
1986.  The totally defunct signalling and telecommunication system on
the Western line has been replaced by an economical and more modern
system, which would make train operations safer, faster and more effi-
cient.  The gains in institutional efficiency have been impressive in
certain areas, particularly in (a) the establishment of new accounting
procedures; (b) systems build-up through management guidance literature;
and (c) motivation through training, better job satisfaction and overall
improved corporate image.
GRC's Current Performance
4.        However, GRC's traffic has lagged behind forecast primarily
due to the two year start-up delay.  GRC's operating costs continue to
be high primarily because of high staff costs. Consequently, GRC has to



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 6
be heavily subsidized by the Government.   It receives about ¢ 300 m
(average) annual operating subsidy and its working ratio is about 220.
(Annex 4 for detailed discussion).   The GRC has shown signs of only
modest financial recovery in the ongoing project due to the delay in the
inputs, the heavy deterioration of the equipment during the start-up
delay and the 100% salary increase granted by the Government in Decem-
ber 1985.  Nevertheless, the project reduced some of the long-standing
arrears of maintenance and thus enabled the locomotive availability to
rise from 34% in 1980 to 59% in 1986 and wagon availability from 29% to
47% in the same period.   But there are still appreciable arrears of
maintenance, which are proposed to be piggy-backed in the proposed
project.
GRC's Future Prospects
5.        The traffic forecasts in the ongoing project originally made
in the late seventies were based on the fact that the Eastern and
Central lines were physically sound. But the prolonged lack of mainte-
nance degraded these two lines to unsafe operating limits. As a result,
GRC's traffic and revenues declined.  However, studies have established
that:   (i) there  is  a  potential  demand  for  rail  transport,  (see
Annex 2-9 for traffic projections), particularly for bulk traffic
because the rail cost averages US5J per ton-km while road cost is US10i
per ton-km; and (ii) GRC can reach financial viability and a working
ratio below 100 by the end of the project, if it can increase its
traffic, particularly by recapturing the traffic on the Eastern and
Central lines, in order to amortize some of its heavy fixed costs, which
are mostly staff costs.  It is evident that GRC can attain the target
working ratio of less than 100 only if it rehabilitates its Eastern and
Central lines and enhances its physical capacity to carry additional
traffic.
6.        All analyses point to the fact that GRC can attain a working
ratio of 86% by the end of the proposed project in 1992 provided it
takes  the  following  austerity measures:   (i)  reduce  staff  from the
current level of 7,800 to 6,375 in 1992 (this reduction is necessary to
bring GRC's present staff productivity of 28.7 staff per million traffic
units (TU) to a more reasonable level of 5.7 staff per mill. TUs.  The
Cameroon  Railway  comparator  of  4.5 staff  per mill.  TUs  provides  a
measure of the feasibility of this expectation; moreover, during
negotiations  the  Government  has  accepted  this  target;  (ii)  revise
tariffs regularly to compensate for inflation/devaluation; and (iii)
implement other complementary actions (described in the action plan at
the end of this annex) in order to reduce operating costs through higher
operating efficiency, and optimization of equipment utilization.
Issues and Solutions
7.        Main  Issues.   GRC's  performance  is  affected  by  four  key
issues:  (i) tariffs and cost recovery;  (ii) overstaffing;  (iii) finan-
cial issues; and (iv) institutional constraints.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 3 of 6
8.        Tariffs  and  Cost  Recovery.   GRC's  tariffs  have  not  been
adjusted to cover fully the successive devaluations since 1983 and the
100% jump in all salaries in December 1985. Because of tariff increases
ranging from 38% for cocoa and 50% for ores in late 1985, GRC is just
able to recover the variable costs for freight, except bauxite, where
tariffs are far below variable cost. In passenger traffic, GRC recovers
only 76% of the variable cost.  The principal reason for this poor cost
recovery is the low tariffs vis-a-vis cost. The worst instance is that
of bauxite which is carried at a cost of about ¢8.34/t.km whereas the
tariff is only 14.50/t.km. Consistent with the objective of eliminating
government subsidies to all parastatals within a reasonable time-frame,
Government has raised tariffs for bauxite from 01.46 to 04.50/t.km, and
for passengers from eo.70 to ¢1.06 per pass. km effective in September
1987.   However,' the paramount aims of the project would be to secure
freedom for the management to raise tariffs to the extent required to
recover full costs - fixed and variable, (but not depreciation) so that
the GRC attains a working ratio of 86 by the end of the proposed project
in  1992.   For this  purpose,  there will  be  a covenant  requiring  a
complete revision of the tariff structure (a) to reflect the market
forces; and (b) to index tariffs to inflation/devaluation. The covenant
requiring the formalization of a Contract Plan (para 11) would ensure
the degree of management autonomy needed for timely tariff revisions.
9.        Overstaffing and Other Personnel Issues.  Complementary to the
tariff revisions which address the cost recovery issue, there is a clear
need to reduce operating costs, so that, even with full cost recovery,
the economic advantage of rail over other competing modes is preserved.
The principal cause of high operating costs is excessive staff costs --
currently about 70% of operating revenues. The staff were reduced from
11,800 to 7,800 in the ongoing project.  By using comparators of staff
productivity from similar railways in the region, it is evident that GRC
should continue the staff reduction effort and reduce its staff to about
6,375 by the end of this project in 1992 and to 6,000 by 1995.  This
staff reduction is crucial to GRC's recovery because the working ratio,
is very sensitive to staff costs.  Secondly, the unions have burdened
the collective bargaining agreement with regulations tilted in favor of
labor, e.g., overtime and promotion rules.  This collective bargaining
agreement should be renegotiated with a view to upgrading staff
productivity or else reduction in staff would inevitably lead to decline
in traffic. Thirdly, GRC is unable to attract and retain professionally
qualified staff because of its low ratio of 1:2 of the salaries of an
unskilled worker to a senior manager. GRC's management is sensitive to
this problem but lacks the freedom to fix wages according to market
rates for qualified staff so as to provide the requisite motivation.
The project proposes to address the overstaffing issue by laying down
annual targets for retrenchment, and the other two issues, which are
largely a function of management autonomy, through the Contract Plan
(para 11).
10.       Financial  Issues.   Despite  the  beneficial  impact  of  the
ongoing Railway Rehabilitation Project, GRC's financial performance is
not satisfactory. Operational losses in 1986 were 685 m Cedis (US$7.6 m



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 4 of 6
equivalent), although about 8% lower than in 1985.  Notwithstanding the
virtual cessation of traffic on the Eastern and Central lines, GRC's
freight traffic went up by 43% between 1985 and 1986, as a result of
which, the operating ratio improved from 250 to 220.  Nevertheless, GRC
currently requires an average annual operating subsidy of ¢ 500 m (in
1987 this subsidy will reach ¢713 m). As staff costs account for 70% of
total operating costs, GRC is able to afford only 17% of its total
operating costs on maintenance, as against the optimum of 30% needed for
maintenance  on  a well-managed  railway.   Besides,  GRC  lacks  foreign
exchange for procuring spare parts for maintenance.  Assurances in the
past from the Government that US$3.0 m p.a. would be made available to
GRC for this purpose have not materialized and maintenance is still in
arrears. GRC's operating revenues in 1986 were contributed by freight,
passengers and parcel (including luggage) in the ratio of 49%, 41% and
10%,  respectively.   This  highlights  the  sharp  decline  in passenger
earnings from the traditional 50% plus.  There is, therefore, a strong
case to reorganize the passenger services so as to regain the traffic
and recover full costs. A comparison between road and rail tariffs and
a second comparison between rail tariffs and rail costs show that
(a) rail tariffs are too low for adequate cost recovery in passenger,
cocoa and minerals traffic and to a lesser extent in timber traffic; and
(b) there is scope for reducing rail costs through staff reductions,
improved utilization of rolling stock and generally more efficient train
services.  This project proposes to address the cost recovery question
through a package of tariff revisions and reforms (para 8 above).  The
cost reduction question is proposed to be addressed through staff
retrenchments (para 9 above) and a series of efficiency measures
comprising  (a) a  revised  Transport  Plan  for  upgrading  operating
efficiency   and   utilization   (para 12  below);   (b) a  rationalized
investment plan, whose scope has been reduced from US$58 m to US$45 m
(excluding taxes); and (c) a covenant demanding that GRC maintain a debt
equity ratio of 50/50 from 1995 onward and debt service ratio of less
than 1.4 during the term of the credit.  Overall financial performance
is proposed to be secured through a covenant which stipulates that GRC
attain the following working ratios in phase with the accrual of
benefits from the project:  93% in 1991; 86% in 1992; 81% in 1993 and
76% from 1995 onward.
11.       Institutional Issues.  The issues of (a) management efficien-
cy; (b) appropriate policy and financial support from the Government;
and (c) the management's accountability to the Government are crucial
elements of railway policy in Ghana.   It is proposed to address this
range of issues through a Contract Plan, which is a formalization of the
mutual rights and responsibilities of GRC's management vis-±-vis the
Government in a legally structured document.  It is proposed to design
such a Performance Agreement  (Contract Plan)  in two parts:   (a) the
Performance Guarantee Agreement; and (b) the Institutional Performance
Plans covering the key areas of activity -- finance, operations,
personnel, etc.  The Performance Guarantee Agreement defines the scope
of management autonomy (e.g., tariffs), the magnitude and justification
for certain pre-agreed subsidies (e.g., cost of socially or politically
imposed services), and other such mutual obligations.   The fulfillment



- 49 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 5 of 6
of these obligations by the Government would be linked to the attainment
of certain performance indices and targets by GRC, (e.g., working ratio,
staffing  strength,  locomotive  availability,  etc.).   The  Performance
Guarantee Agreement would also spell out the monitoring function, the
recourses in case of default,  etc.   The Contract Plan would have a
nominal tenure of three years with in-built flexibility through annual
reviews and mid-course corrections in consultation with the Association.
The Government agreed at negotiations to conclude with GRC the Contract
Plan by September 30, 1988. The efficiency and operative targets to be
fulfilled  during  the  project  cycle  were  agreed  at  negotiations
incorporated into the Contract Plan.  (A set of targets already agreed
at negotiations with the GRC and the Government is given in
Attachment 1)
12.       The  Institutional  Performance  Plans,  which  constitute  the
framework for improving GRC's performance, would consist of (a) a trans-
port plan; (b) a financial upgrading plan; and (c) a staff training and
technical assistance program. GRC has been asked to use the services of
the consultants in the ongoing project to prepare a Transport Plan.
This Plan would define the scope and nature of train services that GRC
should operate to carry the forecast traffic efficiently. The Plan will
describe operating strategies for maximizing the utilization of
equipment with a view to reduction of operating costs.  The Plan was
agreed at negotiations.   Besides, GRC needs a dynamic commercial and
marketing strategy.  It has to attract traffic (like cement, petroleum,
imports, etc.) which were carried by it in the sixties but have since
gone to the highways.  Innovative allurements like special unit trains
or preferential tariffs have to be designed.  For this purpose, it is
proposed to appoint a high level expert to be in charge of traffic
management, commercial and marketing functions.  This expert would also
be responsible for the implementation of the Transport Plan and the
attainment of traffic targets.   The appointment of this expert is a
condition of disbursement for railway components.
13.       The Financial Upgrading Plan would likewise provide a handy
manager's manual for implementing and monitoring the various actions
necessary to raise and recover revenues and keep a tight control over
costs so that the working ratio and other financial covenants (para 11)
are met.
14.       The Technical Assistance Program would provide the management
support needed for the project implementation and, more importantly, for
the  fulfillment  of  the  Contract  Plan,  would  consist  of a team of
consultants, (i) an in-line Director of Finance and (ii) a Mechanical
Engineering task force, in addition to other supporting technical
assistants. The expatriate Finance Director will shoulder the full time
responsibilities  of  that position.   The mechanical  engineering  task
force consisting of a locomotive maintenance expert with a team of
expatriate technicians will be provided through a twinning arrangement
with a foreign railway.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 6 of 6
15.       The training program of the ongoing project will be extended
in the proposed project with a greater emphasis on management training
and  its  application  (see  Annex  3-7).   This  program  aims  to  train
management level staff in transport managment institutions abroad and in
Ghana.   The on-the-job training through interaction with the railway
management experts would be continued but with greater accountability
through a system of monitorable performance indicators.  For the lower
level staff, refresher and pre-promotion courses in technical subjects
will be run by the trainees trained by the consultants in the ongoing
project.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 51 -
ANNEX 2-8
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Financial and Operational Targets
1987   1988    1989    1990    1991   1992   1993  1994   1995
1.  Staff at end of    7,800  7,280    7,020   6,760   6,500   6,375  6,250 6,125  6,000
calander year
2.  Working ratio b/       -      140     135       115       93      86     81   80    76 a/
3.  Accounts receivables  -        -       15%      15%      15%     15%    15%   15%    10%
(percentage of total
revenues at the
end of year) c/
4.  Mainline Loco
Availability
a) More than 10 years
old                 52    55       58       60      62    63      64     65    65
b) Less than 10 years
old                 68    70       71        72     72    73      74     75    75
5.  Mainline Loco kms/day 180   220       240       260    265   270    275    280   280
6.  Wagons availability
a)  More than 20 years 45    47        50        53     56    59      62      65    65
b)  Less than 20 years 65    70        75        80     82    83      84      85    85
a/  1995 onward: 76%.
b/ The working ratio is calculated assuming that revenues from bauxite
and manganese subvention from Government are operating revenues.
c/  No individual account should be more than six months outstanding.
AF4IN
October 1987



52 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ghana Railways: Past Traffic Trends and Projections
Background
1.        Attachments 1 and 2 present past traffic figures and future
projections.
2.        Railway traffic has declined consistently  from the 1960's.
Roads and road transport capacity were well developed in Ghana in the
1960's as much as in the seventies; in contrast, the railway was in
robust health in the 1960s, but its physical condition deteriorated due
to poor maintenance starting from early 1970s, reaching near collapse of
the system by about 1983. The steep decline in rail traffic up to about
1970 was clearly due to the road transport asserting its due share
through competition with rail, while the decline since early 1970's is
due more to the physical decline of the railway system which was such
that the railway could hardly carry even its captive traffic in bauxite
and manganese ore by 1980; another reason for the fall was indeed the
economic decline of Ghana during the 1970s, which depressed traffic
levels overall. It is expected that with the recovery of the economy,
and with the rehabilitation of the railway system (including all three
lines) and strengthening of its management, the railway should be able
to regain traffic levels it maintained in the early 1970s. The traffic
projections presented for 1991-92, are in fact lower than the actuals in
1972. It is important to note that because of the physical deteriora-
tion of the railways, the more recent traffic figures are not a good
basis for future projections.
Nature of Railway Traffic
3.        GRC freight traffic is largely exports, and about 90% of the
tonnage is accounted for by four commodities: bauxite and manganese ore,
which are captive traffic for the railways, and cocoa and timber in
which rail and road actively compete for traffic.  Other traffic con-
sists of cement from the cement processing plants in Takoradi and Tema,
and petroleum products from the refinery in Tema, moving towards Kumasi.
Passenger traffic has been a major component of railway traffic, until
safety hazards  crippled passenger  services  in the  1980s.   Passenger
traffic consisted of mainly two categories, long distance passengers
(mainly traders and farmers who visit city markets and who prefer the
luggage space advantage of rail travel), and short distance passengers
between villages inadequately linked to the road system as well as
commuters in the Accra area.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 2 of 6
Traffic Projections
4.        The    traffic    projections    are    based    on    detailed
origin/destination surveys, customer-interviews and comparative cost
analysis prepared by GRC's consultants (RITES), and modified by Bank
staff.  Detailed commodity wise analysis and discussions are presented
in the consultants reports, (RITES Report on Economic Feasibility of
Rail Rehabilitation, Project Document Nos. D04732 and D04733).  Changes
made by Bank staff had the general effect of making the projections
conservative. The following summarizes main assumptions and findings.
Cost Comparison
5.        Analysis  of  vehicle  operating  costs  and  tariff  for  road
traffic shows that relative costs are in favour of railways for the
traffic assigned to railways.   For example,  for cocoa which has the
highest rail tariff among main commodities, the rail tariff in 1987 is
6.69 cedis per ton-km and estimated tariff in 1991 (based on full
operational cost recovery assumptions) is 9.30 cedis (in 1987 prices).
Compared to this the road vehicle operating costs based on new vehicle
and current exchange rate is 13.9 cedis per ton-km (financial costs,
economic cost being 11.8 cedis).  For timber the differential is even
more since the rail tariff is lower and road freight higher because of
empty return of trucks)  1/.  The above cost difference leaves enough
margin for extra transhipment costs; in fact, because of the
availability of railway sidings attached to regional cocoa depots, saw
mills and ore mines, there is not much transhipment cost involved in
most cases.  In the case of passenger traffic, the average rail tariff
in 1987 is 0.7 cedis, which is expected to go up to 1.2 cedis by 1991
(in 1987 prices) in terms of full operational cost recovery. As against
this, the estimated bus operating cost is about 2.9 cedis per passenger
km (financial; economic cost is 2.3 cedis).   Details of road vehicle
operating costs are presented in Annex 3-1); details of rail operating
costs and tariffs are presented in Annex 4.
Cocoa Traffic
6.        Ghana's cocoa exports declined from 370,000 tons in 1973 to
272,000 tons in  1978 and to 200,000 tons in  1986.   Bank estimates,
considered conservative, expect an export level of 250,000 tons by 1991
and 300,000 tons by 1995, as a result of recent cocoa rehabilitation
efforts, Because of cost advantage and convenience in delivering large
quantities from the regional depots to the ports to meet shipment
1/   The actual road transport charges at present is about 10 cedis for
cocoa, but this is because of the low cedi cost of vehicles bought
before the steep (5,000%) devaluation; these vehicles will mostly
wear out by 1990 when new vehicle costs will become more relevant.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 3 of 6
schedules, Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD) has indicated strong preference
in using railway after the railway services become reliable and
efficient. Above 75% of cocoa was carried by the rail in the 1960s, but
this  share declined  to about  45% in  1986.   Consultants  and COCOBOD
estimate about 80% will move by rail after full rehabilitation of the
railway system as proposed under the project; the projections presented
here assume a share of about 70% for railway.
Timber Traffic
7.        Ghanaian timber exports declined from a peak of about 840,000
tons in 1972 to 103,000 tons in 1983 and picked up to 247,000 tons in
1986 (1 ton = 1 cm3).  Bank's Forestry Sector Review for Ghana (1986)
recommends a sustained export level of about 400,000 tons from 1990
onwards, as shown below:
('000 mn3)
1985               1990                1995
Roundw.  Product  Roundw.  Product  Roundw.  Product
Local Consumption
Lumber                        432       175       424       195      417       217
Other Wood Products           107        39       111        46       119       56
Sub-total                     539       214       535       241      536       273
Exports
Lumber                        213        86       270       124       338      176
Other Wood Products            32        13        37        18        37       20
Export Logs                   143       143       258       258       189      189
Sub-total                     388       242       565       400      564       385
TOTAL                         927       456    1,100        641    1,100       658
While the above is the desirable export level in terms of conserving
forest resources, the actual export is likely to be more in view of the



- 55 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 4 of 6
good markets available and the large cutting and milling capacity that
has recently been rehabilitated and expanded.   Some of the saw mills
have no good road connections.  Based on traffic surveys and customer
interviews, consultants estimated about 60% of the exports to move by
rail after the total rail system (all three lines) is rehabilitated. In
view of the very keen competition between road and rail in timber
transport and the multiplicity of shippers, a more conservative
assumption of 45% rail share in export is taken for the present
projections from 1991 onwards, which assumes restoration of the rail
share achieved in 1972. This includes direct movement to ports and rail
movement to mills in Takoradi for processing for exports. An additional
5% rail share in the transport of locally consumed timber is also
included in the estimate.
Manganese Ore:
8.        Manganese ore is mined in Nsuta and carried 61 km in block
trains to the Takoradi Port for export.  It has a good export market.
Average annual exports in the 1970s was about 350,000 tons. The export
traffic declined to 138,000 tons in 1983 due to the breakdown in rail
capacity; with improvements in western line, traffic has increased to
255,000 tons in 1986, and is expected to increase to 300,000 tons by
1990. However, the production of high quality ore will be exhausted by
1991.   Beyond  1991,  there are two scenarios:  (a) the ore enrichment
(nodulization) plant being set up will become successful and productive,
and export traffic of the enriched ore at about 300,000 annual level
will continue for 15 to 20 years; and (b) the nodulization plant will
not be functional in the near future, but manganese carbonates will
continue to be mined and exported for about 10 years, the quantity being
about 200,000 tons. The projections assume the more conservative (b).
Bauxite
9.        Bauxite  is mined at Awaso,  266 km from Takoradi.   It has
unique qualities suitable for chemical industries, and has a good and
ready market for up to 450,000 tons, and large reserves exist. However,
export has always been limited by the limited capacity of the railway.
Railway gives low preference to this traffic as the price is low, and
hence the freight tariff is low. The tariff is being raised to recover
operating costs. With the expected decline in manganese traffic beyond
1991, rail capacity for about 350,000 of bauxite is assumed available
after rehabilitation.   Further increases in this traffic is feasible
with additional rolling stock; but the present project does not provide
for such additional investment, which will be reviewed in future.
10.       Other  traffic will mainly  consist of cement  and petroleum
productivity.   Cement traffic as return cargo for cocoa trains have
recently become successful, and there is strong customer preference for
this on account of pilferage of the cargo sent by road.   Petroleum
traffic has good prospects after the new petroleum tanker-wagons,
provided under the project, arrive. Sheanuts from northern Ghana meant
for export may become a significant item, transhipped from road to rail



- 56 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 5 of 6
at Kumasi. Rail movement of general import traffic from Tema to Kumasi
holds good promise in view of the inter-modal freight terminal being
planned in Kumasi.  Modest increases are expected in "other traffic"
items, after rail rehabilitation.
Passenger Traffic
11.       Passenger  traffic  is assumed to revive by  1995  to levels
reached around 1978-80 on the different lines, with about 2% annual
increase during the interim period, which is less than the rate of
population growth. While the eastern line handled 2.3 million and 1.3
million passengers in 1980 and 1981 respectively, the latter is taken as
the base figure for projections, in order to be conservative.  With the
planned introduction of comfortable night trains with sleepers, and with
modern coaches and efficient trains, long distance traffic is expected
to take a larger share than in the past, increasing average lead from
about 100 km to about 115 km.  With the revival of passenger traffic,
parcel traffic will also increase.
12.       By all economic  and financial  criteria,  the above  overall
traffic levels may represent railway's legitimate share.  However, the
crucial factor essential to attract and sustain the traffic is a railway
management which is aggressive and responsive to customer needs and
preferences  in  a  competitive  environment.    The  project  provides
necessary institutional support to make the railway competitive and
efficient, and it is expected that the above conservative traffic
estimates will materialize.
Contrast with Earlier Projections:
13.       It  is  true  that  rail  traffic projections  for the ongoing
western railway rehabilitation project have lagged behind expectations.
This is partly because of about two-year delay in starting the project,
and the near-breakdown of railway's physical facilities that occurred in
the interim.   As 'a result, and partly due to the economic crisis in
Ghana,  traffic,  instead of increasing steadily from  1980 to 1985 as
projected, declined to the lowest level in 1983, increasing thereafter,
but lagging behind earlier projections  2/.  Traffic is already picking
2/   However, the investments in western rail rehabilitation still shows
a good economic return because: (a) the interim deterioration in
rail conditions in the "without project situation" increases the
relative benefits due to the project; and (b) the western rail
rehabilitation being completed in 1987 has already helped avoid
heavy rehabilitation and strengthening (costing about US$200,000
per km) of the 250 km Kumasi-Takoradi road; about half of this road
is in a nearly  failed  condition at present.   Due  to the poor
condition of this road, road traffic from Kumasi to Takoradi was
(Footnote Continued)



- 57 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 6 of 6
up fast on the western line with ongoing physical improvements, and is
expected to improve further after 1987.  The process of weaning back
traffic from road to railways would have made sufficient headway by 1990
through improved facilities and customer confidence, so that traffic
growth after the central and eastern line rehabilitation should be more
immediate.
(Footnote Continued)
forced to take the Kumasi-Accra-Takoradi road (about 200 km longer
in distance) during 1985-86 when the western rail was not ready.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Traffic on Ghana Railways, Past Trends and Future Projections
1972/73        1980         1983          1986     1987 a/         1990      1992 d/          All Time Peaks
A. Freight ('000 tons)
1.  Cocoa                         220            95           47           94           99          135         183               491
(1964/65)
2.  Timber                        476            64           61           45           80          157         195               911
(1960/61)
3.  Bauxite                       356           230           59          183          185          300         350               378
(1973/74)
4.  Manganese                     467           260          138          245          280          300         200               616
(1966/67)
5.  Others                        130            41           52           54           77          192         195 c/
6.  Total                       1,620           690          357          621          721        1,084       1,123
7.  Total Ton-km                  290           119           63          103          119          200         250
(millions)
B. Passenger (millions)              7.0            6.3         3.4          2.3          2.7          5.6         6.9                                    Ln
Co
Passenger-Km (millions)            b/           542          396          265          318        662.6         821                                     1
a/ Estimate for full year based on performance of first seven months.
b/ Reliable date not available.
c/ Petroleum products, cement, import goods, parcels; details in Table 2.
d/ This is the first full year after project completion; annual projections
beyond 1992 are given in Table 2.
Source: GRC/Bank Missions.
AF4IN
October 1987
rt 11
' 4
I-
rt



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABTIITATION PROJECT
Traffic on Ghana Railways, Linewise Projections
[6-Oct-87
A------  CTUAL -------                       -        --                    -
UlNITS             1986          1987          1998          1989          1990          1991         1992         1993         1994         1995
WESTERN LINE
TKN (Including Parcels)                              10%                   100.08        115.80        133.90       160.34        175.84        179.87        186.52       18B.13       189.97       195.49
COCOA                                                I10  Tonnes            83.22         85.00         90.00        95.00         95.00         95.00        100.00       105.00       110.00       110.00
TIMBER                                               10^3 Tonnes            44.66         80.00        100.00        120.00       135.00        135.00        135.00       135.00       135.00       135.00
BAUXITE                                              10 3 Tonnes           IB3.00        185.00       220.00        275.00        300.00        300.00        350.00       350.00       350.00       350.00
MANGANESE                                            1013 Townes           245.82        280.00       280.00        300.00        300.00        300.00        200.00       200.00       200.00       200.00
PETROLEUM                                            1013 Tonnes            10.00         [0.00         10.00         10.00         15.00        15.00         15.00        15.00        15.00        40.00
CEMENT                                               10'3 Tonnes             5.00         10.00         20.00        40.00         60.00         80.00         80.00        80.00        80.00        80.00
OTHER                                                1013 Tonnes             1.33         15.00         20.00        25.00         25.00         20.00         20.00        20.00        22.00        25.00
TOTAL                                                                      573.03        665.00        740.00       865.00        930.00        945.00        900.00       905.00       912.00       940.00
Sensitivity Factor (Pass.)                                                   1.00          1.00          1.00          1.00          1.00          1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00         1.00
PASSENGER                                                                 2050.00       2500.00       3000.00      3200.00       3200.00       3250.00       3350.00      3700.00      4000.00      4000.00
PKIN                                                 106                   241.90        295.00        354.00       377.60        377.60        383.50        395.30       436.60       472.00       472.00
PARCELS                                              10'Tonnes              30.87         37.00         39.00        41.00         43.00         45.00         45.00        47.00        48.00        50.00
CENTRAL LINE
TKH (including Parcels)                              10%6                    2.02          2.02          2.14         3.82          6.60          9.83         11.38        11.52        11.78        15.66
CDCOA                                                1013 Tonnes            11.00         11.00         11.00         15.00        20.00         32.00         33.00        34.00        35.00        37.00
TIMBER                                               1013 Tonnes             0.89          0.89         0.89          4.00         10.00         15.00         20.00        20.00        20.00        20.00
PETROLEUM                                            10'3 Tonnes             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
OTHER                                                1013 Tonnes             0.47          0.47          0.47         2.00          4.00          6.00         10.00        10.00        10.00        10.00
TOTAL                                                                       12.36         12.36         12.36        21.00         34.00         53.00         63.00        64.00        65.00        67.00
PASSENGER                                                                  100.00        100.00       500.00        900.00       1000.00       1500.00       1600.00      1700.00      1750.00      1800.00
PKE                                                  10'6                   11.00         11.00         55.00        99.00        110.00        165.00        176.00       187.00       192.50       19B.00
PARCELS                                              lOosnnes               2.00          2.00          3.00         6.00         12.00         15.00         15.00        15.00        16.00        17.00
EASTERN LINE
TKM (including Parcels?                              10 6                    0.81          1.38          1.92         B.15         17.55         39.89         51.54        54.39        56.91        58.29
COCOA                                                103 Tonnes              1.00          3.00          3.00        12.00         20.00         48.00         50.00        54.00        55.00        58.00
TIMBER                                               10'3 Tonnes             0.00          0.00          1.00         4.00         12.00         30.00         40.00        40.00        40.00        40.00               >
PETROLEUM                                             10'3 Tonnes            0.00          0.00          0.00         2.00         10.00         20.00         40.00        40.00        40.00        40.00               ,
CEMENT                                               1013 Tonnes             0.00          0.00          0.00          1.00         2.00         10.00         10.00        15.00        20.00        20.00                  x
OTHER                                                 010^  Tonnes           0.01          0.01          0.01          1.00         8.00         10.00         20.00        22.00        25.00        25.00               9 
D I
TOTAL                                                                        1.01          3.01          4.01        20.00         52.00        118.00        160.00       171.00       [80.00       183.00
PASSENGER                                                                  100.00        100.00       500.00       1000.00       1400.00       1800.00       2000.00      2000.00      2300.00      2400.00
PKN                                                  10T6                   12.50         12.50        62.50        125.00        175.00        225.00        250.00       250.00       207.50       300.00
PARCELS                                              10T6 Tonnes             2.00          2.00          3.00        10.00         13.00         30.00         32.00        32.00        33.00        35.00
TOTALiAll cargo xnc. Parcels. All System)            1013 Tonnes           621.27        721.37       801.37        963.00       1084.00       120b.00       1215.00      1234.00      1254.00      1292.00
TKE  (All Systes?                                     10%6                 102.91        119.20        137.95       172.31        199.98        229.5B        249.43       254.03       258.65       269.44
PKM (All system)                                     10%                   265.40        31B.50       471.50        601.60        662.60        773.50        821.30       873.60       952.00       970.00



- 60 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transport Parastatals: Reforms Underway
1.        Actions in Progress and Those Proposed under the Public Enterprise
Project (PEP, approved by IDA Board in October 1987) for Reforming Transport
Parastatals:
GRC:  The proposed Transport Rehabilitation Project to assist in needed
reforms to increase efficiency and eliminate subsidies (para 2.23).
GPHA: Needed reforms to improve performance being implemented under the
ongoing Ports Project (Credit 1674-GH).
GH:  The PEP will assist in corporate planning, and the Government is
studying the necessary reforms with Canadian assistance (para 2.26).
GCAA:  This is an infant organization, and the Government is expected to
improve organisation and cost-recovery under the proposed Transport
Rehabilitation Project; additional support for its reorganization is
expected from bilateral assistance (para 2.27).
BSL:  The Government has refused to provide any revenue subsidies since
1984, and the company has taken on a drastic reorganization program and
is seeking foreign collaboration for joint operation which seems to be
the most appropriate solution.  The PE Project will assist in financing
studies on restructuring.
TSDC:  No Government subsidies are being given, and the Government is
actively negotiating with foreign firms for joint-ownership and opera-
tion. The PEP will provide assistance in restructuring divestiture.
STC, OSA and CES  (the three state-run bus companies):   The PEP will
provide technical assistance for restructuring studies, and for interim
management support.
2.        Support to rehabilitate and restructure public sector bus companies
is considered important by Government.  The share of STC, OSA and CES is less
than  10% of the market,  but  they provide  the most  dependable  and  safe,
scheduled bus services in the country, including services on many inter-city
and city-rural routes where private sector buses do not operate because of
poor  roads.   Apart  from inefficient management,  overstaffing,  and lack of
adequate financial control, the financial debacle at these firms at present is
due to the vast adjustment problem that faced Ghana in the wake of a 5,000%
devaluation.  The devaluation has made the raising of cedi resources to pay
for past foreign loans on bus purchases and for new replacement buses from
abroad, almost impossible to manage.  Moreover, routes along very poor roads
(where Government buses provided the only public transport in much of Ghana)
have caused further breakdown of buses in spite of good workshops and
efficient maintenance staff. The number of operable buses, therefore, remains
below the economic scale of operations, particularly for OSA/CES, resulting in
financial losses.  The Government does not provide revenue subsidies to these
firms,  whose  losses  are  reflected  in  increased  indebtedness  and  poor



- 61 -
ANNEX 2-10
Page 2 of 2
depreciation provision.  Along with radical restructuring of the firms, the
Government is making efforts to buy essential fleet replacement, as a
temporary  measure  to  help  them  absorb  the  severe  "adjustment  shock,"
especially because these firms have well-organized workshops and provide the
best organized public transport services in Ghana, and since shortage of
public passenger transport is an economic constraint at present. These firms
have been unable to raise the necessary cedi resources to pay for the foreign
exchange on commercial terms.   The Government is keen to reorganize these
firms to make them efficient and viable, and is considering various
reorganization options including joint-ventures with the private sector and
private sector management, but needs technical advice and guidance. To begin
the reorganization, a study to assess the financial situation of the firms
financed by IDA is now under way. Further technical assistance for financing
restructuring studies and for assisting in reorganization is proposed under
the PEP.
AF4IN
July 1987



REPUBLIC CF GHANA
TRMZir REHAB1LArStIaN EEDmHCT
Public Investent Program for Transport Sector, 1986-88
a. Road Projects
REDS AM HIC@Y                                                                  1986                              1987                            1988                    -  TUL 1986-1988-
EKchange Rate USS1.00 = 150.00 Gedis                PROMJT NC).    TU0AL          FC        LC        IOA          FC         IC       TIAL        FC         U         TOMAL       PC 
HlICHWYS
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance                   WY 001          2113       1755       358        4510        3750       760       4201       3600        601      10824       9105        1719
Rehabilitatiml of Hsaa-AnyinnaPi Road                 HWY 002                                                                            362        300         62        362        300          62
Remnstnction of Yapei4-brno                           HWY 003          383        283       100         205         120        85        720        600        120       1308       1003         305
Periodic Maintenawe Tnn* Roads                        HWY 004         1728                 1728        2604                  2604       3000                  3000       7332                   7332
Rehabilitation of IYnasi-Sryani Rd. Rtase I           HWY 005         1440       1050       390         400         300       100        305         160       145       2145       1510         635
Rehabilitatimn of KAvsi-Swyrani Rd. Fhase II          HWY 006                                           400         225       175       1140        540        600       1540        765         775
Reanstruction of Daboase Junction-T'di Road           HAY 007          850        600       250         298         225-       73                                        1148        825         323
Reconstruction of Yamoransa-Anwhi Ankwanta Rd. I    HWY 008             45                   45          54                    54                  -                       99                     99
Reonstructicn of Yaanransa&-A,d Arkwanta Rd. II    HMY 009                                                                              1515       1380        135       1515       1380         135
Rehabilitation of Bogosn-Anyanfuri Road              HIbY 010                                                                            540        375        165        540        375         165
Reonmtruction of Sogakope-Aflao Road                  HWY 011                                                                            950        800        150        950        800         150
Recontructiao  of Adm Elubo Road                      JWY 012         2465       1965       500         205         105       100                                        2670       2070         600
Rdbabilitation of hdm-4dm 3uction                     IW  013                                                                            281        240         41        281        240          41
Rehabilitation of Accra City Roads                    IWY 014          450        360        90         450         315       135        450         315       135       1350        990         360
Recistruction of Kaneshie Mallam Road                 HWY 015         1584       1410       174         8.50        750       100        275        210         65       2709       2370         339
Rehabilitation of Kuwasi City Roads                   HWY 016          735        645        90         1830       1440       390       1630        1185       445       4195       3270         925
Bailey-Bridge Reconstruction Program                  MY 017            54                   54          180         90        90                                         234         90         144
Fiv-Bridge Rehabilitation Progran                     HWY 018          336        255        81                                                                           336        255          81
Constructim  of Asukawkaw Bridge                      HWY 019           90                   90          105                  105                                         195                    195
Rehabilitation of Idite Volta Bridge                  HWY 020          109         97        12          93          55        38                                         202         152         50
Assily Bridge Prgran                                  IWY 021          411        400        11          390        375        15        215        215                  1016        990          26
Peanstructimn of loaer Volta                          HW  022                                                                            310        270         40        310        270          40
Project Stilies and Preparation                       liY 023                                            57                    57        333        333                   390        333          57
Recnstruc/Rehab. of K'si4Mipong Rd.                   HWY 024                                            100                  100       1200       1000        200       1300        1000        300
Rehabilitation of Kmnmsi-Paga Poad                    HWY 025                                                                           1475        1250       225       1475        1250        225
Ejura District Road Rehabilitation                    HWY 026                                                                            597        480        117        597        480         117
Bridge Rehabilitation Program, Phase II               HWY 027                                                                            930        750        180        930        750         180
HIQl6.XYS TUEAL                                                      12793       8820      3973        12731       7750      4981      20429      14003       6426      45953      30573       15380
DEPARDM  OF FEDER RDS
Feeder/Cocoa Poads Maint/Rehabilitation               DFR 001         2855                 2855        2804                  2804       3000                  3000       8659                   8659
FE 1 80AD IYUEAIS                                                     2855                 2855        2804                  2804       3000                  3000       8659                   8659   
3 T
SKECIf  ITIrAIS                                                      15648       8820      6828       15535        7750      7785      23429      14003       9426      54612      30573       24039 



- 63 -
ANNEX 2-11
Pige 2 of 2
I 2            K2       S                 A        e     i               9    8 
u,0~~~~~~~~~~0
18 °  ^-e                  - 20
II                               a      RRN                R     _ot
U1;1    2 Ij  II  IIf-   g                                     °                           ;
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 _ ^  
i  8            088           808    88       8880   8         8   8



- 64 -
ANNEX 2-12
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Road Budget, 1987
Ministry of Roads and Highways
(in Million Cedis)
Trunk Roads   Urban Roads  Feeder Roads        TOTAL
Description
1. Recurrent Expenditure               1,307             142           167          1,616
2. Periodic Maintenance                2,544            468            750          3,762
3. Capital Expenditure
(a) Construction works
(Mainly Rehabilitation)
(i) Roads                      2,690           1,364            400         4,454
(ii) Estates                      101               -              -            101
(b) Plant, Equipment,
Furniture & Vehicles             427               5              -            432
4. Cocoa Roads                             -               -         2,976          2,976
TOTAL                                  7,069           1,979         4,293         13,341
Note: It was estimated in August 1987 that periodic maintenance expenditure for 1987
may not exceed 70% of the 3.76 billion provided in the budget, due to shortage
in release of Government funds. See also Annex 2-5.
Source: MRH
AF4IN
October 1987



- 65 -
ANNEX 2-12
Page 2 of *2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITAION PROJECT
Summary of 1987 Budget for Periodic
Maintenance and Minor Works
Description                   Length Km             Amount
(Million ¢)
1. TRUNK ROADS
1.1 Regravelling                                   650                 684
1.2 Resealing                                      210                 696
1.3 Resurfacing                                     65                 342
1.4 Improvement                                     45                 444
1.5 Drainage Structures                              -                 162
1.6 Maintenance of Town Roads                                          108
1.7 Rehabilitation of Bridge                                           108
TOTAL FOR TRUNK ROADS                                            2,544
2.  URBAN ROADS
2.1 Regravelling                                     _                   _
2.2 Resealing                                       50                 164
2.3 Resurfacing                                     26                 136
2.4 Drainage Structures                              -                  60
2.5 Improvement                                     11                 108
TOTAL FOR URBAN ROADS                                              468
3.  FEEDER ROADS
3.1 Regravelling                                   250                 250
*3.2 Grading and Reshaping                       1,200                 122
3.3 Improvement                                     54                  73
3.4 Drainage Structures                            245                 103
3.5 Tarring Gravel Roads                             -                  22
3.6 4th Highway Project                                                180
TOTAL FOR FEEDER ROADS                                             750
GRAND TOTAL                                                      3,762
Note: Actual expenditures is expected to be not more than 70% of the
budget.
Source: MRH
AF4IN
October 1987



- 66 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Maintenance Component
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The trunk roads in Ghana consist of 5782 km of paved and 8352 km of
unpaved roads, giving a network total of 14134 km. These roads are classified
into three condition groups, namely,  good, fair and poor.  Poor condition
roads are the sum of previously defined "moderately failed" and "severely
failed" roads. The kilometrage in each group is currently based on subjective
ratings by regional engineers. The previous road condition mix as reported in
the SAR for the RRMP of May 1985 has been revised somewhat with more data
obtained in the last two years.  However, even this is expected to be revised
once again as the detailed program for updating the road inventory and pave-
ment condition survey gets underway.
2.        As regards paved roads, it is estimated that at present there are
1272 km in good condition, 1340 km in fair condition, and 3170 km in poor
condition.   The corresponding  lengths of unpaved roads are,  respectively,
2476, 3168 and 2708 km.  It is assumed that each year about 1/10th of the
paved roads in good condition will make the transition to fair condition, and
about 1/7th from fair to poor condition. For unpaved roads, the corresponding
fractions are both 1/7th.   These proportions will be revised as more data are
collected on pavement deterioration.
3.        To restore  a paved road  in poor  condition,  resurfacing of the
pavement consisting of the addition of a new base course and a double surface
dressing will be required.  In some cases, embankments may need to be raised
or rebuilt together with minor shoulder repairs. The estimated cost for these
activities varies from US$35,000 per km to US$65,000 per km.  An average
figure of US$50,000 per km is assumed here.  Pavements that need to be re-
stored from fair to good condition require only resealing at an estimated cost
of US$22,000 per km. Major rehabilitation cost is taken as US$250,000 per km.
4.        The major activity required on the unpaved roads is regravelling of
the surface.  However, depending upon the degree of deterioration, different
amounts of repairs of the shoulders and road formation will be required.  For
simplicity, the average cost of regravelling plus required repairs is taken as
US$7000 per km.
II. PERIODIC MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
A. Basis
5.        Due to lack of adequate maintenance in the past, a great deal of
backlog exists that needs to be cleared, in addition to periodic maintenance
of the roads that make the transition from good to fair and fair to poor
conditions each year. The optimal mix of the different conditions of the road
in the entire network can only be determined on the basis of minimizing total
transport cost (i.e., sum of maintenance and vehicle operating costs plus any
new  construction  costs)  over  the whole  network.   However,  data  is  not



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 3
available at present to determine this optimal mix.   In the interim, it is
conjectured that a desirable mix (km) in the network is as follows:
Good        Fair       Poor       Total (km)
Paved                   4,282       1,000        500         5,782
Unpaved                 5.352       2,000      1,000         8,352
Total Network           9,634       3,000      1,500        14,134
6.        Five  to  Seven  Year  Stabilization  Target.   Assuming  that  it  is
planned to stabilize the network to the desired mix shown above in 5-7 years,
the target mix each year can be determined by spreading the difference between
the desired condition mix and the existing condition equally over 5-7 years.
However, in order to fit the physical output to the budget requirements and to
build up the major rehabilitation program slowly over the next seven yea^rs, it
was necessary to alter the target lengths in some years.  The Table below
shows the annual target lengths for each condition group for the next eight
years determined in this fashion, and the two year program for 1988-89 which
forms the basis of the road maintenance component for the project.
B.   Desirable Program (km)
Total
Periodic        Major
Year      Resealing   Resurfacing    Regravelling   Maintenance  Rehabilit.
1988              50            409              918          1,377          150
1989             104            375              994          1,473          165
1990             150            345            1,071          1,566          185
1991             160            330            1,147          1,637          220
1992             212            295            1,224          1,731          270
1993             235            165              765          1,165          250
1994             262            153              765          1,165          222
1995             285             83              765          1,133           60
1988-89            154            784            1,912          1,850          315
7.        The  cost  of  required maintenance  and  rehabilitation  each year,
assuming one hundred percent of the needs in comparison to the desired targets
are implemented every year, is summarized in Attachment 1.  Under the plan
indicated, the gravel road network will stabilize in five years, the periodic
maintenance needs on the paved roads will virtually stabilize also in five
years, and the backlog requiring major rehabilitation will be cleared in seven
years.   After the network has  stabilized  to the desired mix,  the annual
periodic maintenance and major rehabilitation costs would reduce to US$30.8 m
per annum (about US$15.8 m for periodic maintenance and US$15.0 m for rehabil-
itation). This is assuming that no significant expansion of the network takes
place through new construction activities.  The periodic maintenance expendi-
ture in the first five years is kept at US$28 m per annum, whereas funds
required for major rehabilitation increase gradually from US$37.5 m in 1988 to
a peak value of US$67.5 m in 1992, falling off to US$55.5 m in 1994 and to



- 68 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 3
US$15 m per annum thereafter.   (See also the bar chart in Figure 1 and a
depiction of the stabilization period in Figure 2).
C.   Planned Project (1988/89)
8.        Attachment 2 shows the expected road condition mix over the project
period (1988/89) where the planned expenditure on periodic maintenance of
trunk roads is about US$28 m in each of the two years.   (About US$18.0 m are
expected to be spent in 1987 including funds from the Fourth Highway Project.)
Figure 1 shows graphically the impact of the project on the condition mix over
the combined paved and unpaved network.
9.        The road component of the Transport Rehabilitation Project can be
interpreted as the initial two-year program of a network stabilization period
proposed to reach an optimal mix of trunk roads in good, fair and poor condi-
tion, as shown in para 2.01. The proposed stabilization period is depicted in
Figure 2, which shows a transition of about six years.  If TRP is not imple-
mented and the same investment level of 1987 is assumed in the future for the
trunk road network, the stabilization period would be much longer (about
20 years) as shown in Figure 3.
10.       Implementation  Schedule.   The  implementation  schedule  for  the
planned periodic maintenance of trunk roads under the Project is shown in
Annex 3-13.
III. ADJUSTMENTS FOR FEEDER ROADS AND ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
11.       The analysis and work program shown above applies to the periodic
maintenance of paved and unpaved trunk roads.  We present here an adjustment
to that program to include also periodic maintenance of feeder roads and
materials for routine maintenance for both trunk and feeder roads.
12.       The adjusted annual costs of the proposed road network stabilization
program for trunk and  feeder roads  is given in Attachment  3.  The basic
hypotheses in estimating the costs are:
(a) the cost of periodic maintenance of feeder roads is assumed at about
1/6th of the total periodic maintenance cost for the road network.
There are about 14,000 km of feeder roads in Ghana, but the special
needs of cocoa roads, which constitute more than 50% of feeder
roads, have been catered for under another project;
(b) the cost of materials for the routine maintenance of feeder roads is
about 1/6th of the total cost of materials for the routine mainte-
nance of the whole network; this total cost is estimated at US$6-7 m
per year, based on existing information and the mission judgment.
13.       Attachment  4 shows  the  present  distribution  of  trunk  roads  by
surface type, traffic level and surface condition.
AF4IN
October 1987



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
T?ANSPORT REHA73ILITATIOll PROJECT
Fig. 1: Road Conditions With and Without
the Project, 1987-90
10000
EJ gPresent Situation (Jan. 1987)
9000             1      Expected Sit. at Start of Project (Jan. 1988)
Q 8000                         Without Project (Jan. 1990)
:  7000        \\\l   With Project (Jan. 1990)                                    48X
7000   -              ~~~45X
6000                                                                  X42%40%
Xn    5000   -                                    32X
8                                        3OX  ~~~~~~~~~~28X %
1000                                                                                                                    a
0
GOOD                        FAIR                       POOR
ROAD CONDITIONS



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Fig. 2: Projected Trunk Road Network Condition
with the Stabilization Program
10000
9000
00GOOD
7000
6000                                                                                                            0
5000
4000                         14,
FAIR
3000
2000                                       Iii,,,        POOR
1 000
198a    19a9    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997                          Zz
(D 



REPUBLIC OF GIANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Fig. 3: Projected Trunk Road Network Condition
W/0 the Stabilization Program
10000
9000
aooo _                   O~~~oO D~Z
7000
sc /
6000
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~FI
5000
4000     ha.8wt88,   POOR
3000  _                                   FAiRSE"t8E
19B8   1990   1992   1994   1996   1998   2000   2002   2004   2006   2008   2010
Note:  The 'Without Project'  situation presented here assumes that the level of periodic
maintenance expenditure will continue,  in the absence of the project, at the 1987
budget level of about US$24 million equivalent (3.3 billion cedis for the trunk and                                     C x
feeder roads); this is an optimistic assumption since the actual 1907 expenditure may
not exceed 70% of the budget provision.



-72 -
ANNEX 3-1
REPUBLIC OF 6HANA                                                Attachment  1
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
5-7 YeAr Network Stabilization Plan 119SS-1995) and Projected Road Conditions
(Trunk Roads, Ke)
Major
Paved (57S2 km)          Rehab.            Unpaved (8352 kh)              Coobined (14134 kh)         Total CoSt (US  en.)
God    Fair       Poor                       6ood    Fair        Poor         6ood    Fair        Poor    Per.)tce. Naj.Rahab.
Jan. 1996 Expected Starting Position                    1,593    1,236    2,953                       2,672    2,999    2,691          4,265    4,225    5,644
Porcentage distribution of the above            28       212       51l                       32l       361       32l          30l       302       40t
Jan. 1989 Position s/o 1999 Iaint./Rehab. Prog.    1,434    1,219    3,130                            2,290    2,944    3,118          3,724    4,162    6,240
1998 Exp.laint./Rehab.Prog.                         609       (50)    1409)          (150)         919      (153)     (765)       1,527      (203)  (1,324)          29.0       37.5
JAn. 1999 Position with 1999 NAint./Rehab. Prog.   2,043    1,169    2,571                            3,209    2,791    2,353          5,251    3,959    4,924
PercentAge distribution of the above            352       202       442                       392       332       292          372       282       352
Jan. 1990 Position v/o 1999 Kaint./Rehab. Prog.    1,939    1,206    2,739                            2,750    2,850    2,752          4,598     4,056    5,489
1999 Exp.Naint./Rehab.Prog.                         644      (104)     (375)         (165)         994      (257)    (737)        1,639      (361)  (1,277)          29.0       41.3
JAn. 1990 Povition etith 1999 MAint./RehAb. Prog.   2,492    1,102    2,199                           3,744    2,593    2,015          6,226    3,695    4,212
Percontage distribution of the above            432       192       392                       452       312       242          442       262       302
JAn. 1991 PoSition M/o 1990 fIint./RehAb. Prog.    2,234    1,193    2,355                            3,209    2,759    2,395          5,443    3,951    4,740
(990 Exp.Naint./RWab.Prog.                          690      (150)    (345)         (195)       1,071       (361)    (710)        1,751      (511)  (1,240)          29.0       46.3
Jan. 1991 Position with 1990 Naint./Rohab. Prog.   2,914    1,043           1,925                     4,290    2,397    1,675          7,194    3,440    3,500
Percentage distribution of the above            502       192       322                       512       292       202          512       241       252
Jan. 1992 Position wIa 1991 Iaint./Rehab. Prog.    2,623    1,195    1,974                            3,669    2,666    2,01(          6,291    3,951    3,991
1991 Exp.Naint./Rehab.Prog.                         710      ((60)    (330)          (220)       1,147      (467)    (b60)        1,957      (627)  (1,230)          29.0       55.0
J.an. 1992 Position with 1991 Hnint./Rohnb. Prog.   3,333    1,025    1,424                           4,816    2,199    1,339          9,149    3,224    2,761
Porcentago distribution of the above            5S9       I197      252                       592       262       162          592       232       202
Jan. 1993 Position  b/D  (992 (aint./RehAb. Prog.    2,999    1,212    1,570                          4,129    2,573    1,652          7,127    3,785    3,222
1992 Exp.lbint./Rehan.Prog.                         777      (212)    (295)          (270)       1,224      (572)     (652)      2,001       (794)  (1,217)          28.0       67.5
Jan. 1993 Position with 1992  nAint./Rehab. Prog.   3,776    1,000          1,005                     5,352    2,001      1,000        9,129    3,001    2,005
Percnntago diotribution of the above            652       172       172                        642      242       122           652      211       142
Jan. 1994 Position N/o 1993 faint./Rehab. Prog.    3,399    1,235    1,149                            4,597    2,479    1,295          7,996    3,714    2,434
1993 Exp.Maint./Rehab.Prog.                         650      (235)    ((65)          (250)         765      (479)    (286)        1,4(5      (714)    (701)          18.S       62.5
Jan. 1994 Position with 1993 Naint./Rlbhb. Prog.   4,049    1,000             733                     5,352    2,000        999        9,401    3,000    1,733
Percentage distribution of the Above            702       172       132                        642      242       122           672      212       121
Jan. MP95 Position M oa 1994 maint./Rehab. Prog.    3,644    1,262            976                     4,599    2,479      1,295        9,232    3,741    2,161
1994 Exp.Maint./Rehab.Prog.                         637      (262)      (153)        (222)         765      (479)    (296)        1,402      (741)    (661)          18.9       55.5
Jan. 1995 Position with 1994 Haint./Rehab. Prof.   4,291    1,000             501                     5,353    2,000        999        9,634    3,000    1,500
Percentage distribution of the above            742       17X        92                       642       242       12l           692       212      (1l
Jan. 1996 Position w/o 1995 Naint,/Rehab. Prog.    3,953    1,295             644                     4,589    2,479    1,285          9,441    3.764    1,929
1995 Exp.Nlint./Rehab.Prog.                         429      (295)       (83)         (60)         765      (479)    (286)        1,193      (764)    (369)          (5.S       15.0
Jan. (    Position with 199M  Mint./Rohab. Prog.   4,281    1,000             501                     5,353    2,000        999        9,634    3,000    1,500
PercentAge distribution of the above            742       172        92                        642      242        12l          692       21l      1l
1996 Enp.lnt.IRdhb.Prof.                            428      (285)       (83)         (60)         765      (479)     1286)       1,193      (764)    (369)          (5.9       15.0
Nkte: Total, may not add horizontally due to rounding.



- 73 -
AM=E 3-1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                              Attacc_hnt 2
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Poid CoeditiMe  lith nd lWithout the Periodic IAintMnucc PrecKt
itlrak Roads, km)
Paved i5712 kbi         Rehab.          U(Japad iB352 kal               Clomined (14134 km)        Total Cost MUS en.
6ood    Fair       Poor                     6ood    Fair       Poor         6od    Fair        Poor    Per.Ntcr. Maj.Rlhab.
A.  Prsest Situation
Position                               Jas-67    1,272    1.340    3.170                      2.476    3.16*     2,706        3,746    4,506    5,676
-     Wo hitmsv                          Jan-67    1.145    1,276    3.3o1                       2,122    3.0a9    3,161         3.267    4.345    6,522
- sticipated ork durinq
15MR In. 4th. ihy.Pro).                             446       4,    42506           1501        550        600)    04701        998      (120)    48781         17.0       37.5
- Estimated positieo                     Jan-B      1.593    1.23t    2.953                     2,612    2.989    2,691         4.265    4,225    5.644
8.  Road Condition, withoat the
aiatenance Project (cueelative,
jan-69    1.434    1.219    3,129                      2,290    2.944    3.116         3,724    4.163    6.247
Jae-90    1,291    1.160    3,303                      1,963    2,650    3,53'         3.254    4.038    6.842
C.  Nainttnacn ProeJct Contribution
icommolativel
First Yar  41986)                                  6t9        '5i    i409)         t150I         91S     1153)    065p        1,527      4203)  (1.3241         28.0
Scond Veer il9.                                   1.253      154)      764p        1315)      1,912      1410, 11502)         3.105      (504,  Q2.0ll          28.0
i.  Wnt Position with Project
Jau-9    2.043    1.1s9    2,570                       3,201    2,791    2,353         5,251    3,960    4,923
Jan-90    2,544    1.o34    2,2u)4                     3.875    2.440    2,037         6.419    3.474    4,241



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                                                h         3
-                                       ~~~~~~~Attachment3
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Costs ot the Proposed Stabilization Proqram
for Trunk and Feeder Roads
lIn US$ million equivalent, in 1987 prices)
Routine
Periodic                Mainten.                 Total             Major
Year         Maint.                  Materials            Maintenance           Rehab.    IOIAL
6HA       DFR
1988      28.0        6.0                  6.0                 40.0                 37.5      77.5
1989      28.0        6.0                  6.0                 40.0                 41.3      81.2
1990      28.0        6.0                  6.0                 40.0                 46.3      86.3
1991      28.0        6.0                  6.5                 40.5                 55.0      95.5
1992      28.0        6.0                  6.5                 40.5                 67.5     108.0
1993      18.8        4.0                  6.5                 29.3                 62.5      91.8
1994      18.8        4.0                  7.0                 29.8                 55.5      85.3
1995      15.8        4.0                  7.0                 26.8                 15.0      41.8
1996      15.8        4.0                  7.0                26.8                  15.0      41.8
Note:  Actual maintenance proAram for 1988-90 aims at sliohtly hiqher tarqets than
shown above.



- 75 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                                                        ANNEX 3-1
Attachment 4
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Present Distribution of Trunk Roads by Surface Type, Traffic Level and Surface Condition
Lenqth by Surface Conditions
Iratfic                Road            ---------------------------
Class       Surface ivpe                    Ranqe              Lenqth                 Good       Fair      Poor
Faved Roads                            itADT                (kn                 (ka)        (ka)      (kn)
I    Azphalt concrete                     i ,r00                ;                   24          13         0
2    5urface treatment             .      1500               1. i,22                167        232       60b
Surface treatment              50j0-lcO10              1,411                  257        321       833
4    Surface treatment                20 -5;C;               3,312                  604        754    1,954
Subtotal, Paved Roads                                      5,782               1,072      1,320    3,390
Uinpaved Roads
5    Grael i(laterite)                   :300J                 770                  228        292       250
b    Gravei                            150-306                 852                  253        323       276
7    6ravel                            50-15b                3,573               1,059       1,355     1,159
6    Gravei                                 50               3,157                  936      1,198    1,023
Subtotai, Unpaved Roads                                    8,352               2,476      3,168    2,708



- 76 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation of the Kumasi-Paga Road
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Kumasi-Paga road provides the major arterial route linking the
more intensively developed areas in Ghana's coastal regions through the major
center of Kumasi to the northern border (see Map IBRD 20609).  Much of the
roadls 576 km length is in poor condition and although some road works are
currently in progress, further rehabilitation and improvement of the road has
been identified as a potentially high yielding "core" project of a program for
the structural adjustment of the Ghanaian economy.  An improved Kumasi-Paga
road would make a contribution to the development of an integrated transport
system for the country and is seen as enhancing the growing economic and
political relationships between Ghana and Burkina Faso to the north.
1.02      A Pre-Investment Study of the road, financed under Credit 1601-GH
(Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project), was undertaken by Kocks Con-
sulting Engineers, GmbH (Germany) between September 1986 and January 1987 with
the specific objective of recommending measures for the optimal improvement of
the  road  on  its  present  alignment.    (Ref:  "Pre-Investment  Study  for
Kumasi-Tamale-Bolgatanga-Paga Road," June 1987.)
1.03      Investments recommended at this stage comprise improvements to all
but 64 km of the route length.   Of these 64 km, 47.5 are currently being
improved under existing contracts.   Indications are that improvement of the
remaining 16.5 km, as an independent investment, is not economically viable.
II. SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF PRESENT ROAD CONDITION
2.01      The total road length  (576 km) was divided into sections on the
basis of engineering and traffic analysis.  The sectioning is shown in Fig-
ure 1.  A brief description of  the present  condition  of each  section is
presented in the following.
2.02      Section 0, Kumasi (km 0) to Abofour (km 53), length 53 km.  Up to
km 20.6 the road is under reconstruction by GHA's Mobile Maintenance Unit
(MMU). From km 20.6 to km 53, pavement has failed over a length of 9 km. The
existing pavement consists of bituminous surface dressing with 20 mm chip-
pings.  Pavement and shoulders are in good to fair condition with roughness
between 3,330 and 5,900 mm/km. The MMU plans to resurface the worst sections.
2.03      Section 1, Abofour (km 53) to Afrantwo (km 94), length 41 km.  From
km 53 to km 82, the pavement is in fair to bad condition showing localized
potholes up to 1,080 m2/km and roughness of 5,960 mm/km.  Eighty percent of
the shoulders has failed.  From km 82 to km 94 potholes average 285 m2/km with
roughness of 4,190 mm/km.   Pavement condition is fair to bad, with 90% of
shoulder failure.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 6
2.04      Section 2, Afrantwo (km 94) to Kintampo (km 180), length 86 km.  The
existing pavement is still in fair condition (96%) with potholes averaging
32 m2/km and roughness of 3,020 mm/km.   Shoulder failure reaches 82%.  Mea-
surement of the residual strength of pavement indicates that rapid pavement
failure may be expected.  Box culvert and bridge repair and/or rehabilitation
is required.
2.05      Section 3A, Kintampo (km 180) to New Kadelso (km 256), length 76 km.
This  section  has  substantially  failed,  potholes  average  1,817 m2/km  and
roughness averages  9,380 mm/km.   The embankment  is generally too low,  thus
drainage is required to prevent overflooding from surrounding flat ground.
Shoulder and many drainage structures have to be repaired.
2.06      Section 3B, New Kadelso (km 256) to Morno (km 263.8), length 7.8 km.
Twenty-six percent of pavement is in good, the remaining is in fair condition.
Potholes average 107 m2/km and roughness is 4,160 mm/km.  All shoulders are in
bad  condition.   Pothole  patching,  resealing  and  shoulder  maintenance  is
required.
2.07      Section 3C, Morno (km 263.8) to Fufulsu (km 308.5), length 44.7 km.
This section is at present under contract for reconstruction, completion is
scheduled for March 1988.  Reconstruction works include widening to 7.3 m the
carriage way  and  to  2.5 m  the  shoulders.   Pavement  is  single bituminous
surface dressing on 150 mm subbase and 200 mm base course.
2.08      Section 4A, Fufulsu (km 308.5) to Yapei (km 325.0), length 16.5 km.
Pavement structure is considered sufficient to carry anticipated traffic.
Fifty-four percent of pavement is in good condition, 46% fair.  Roughness is
3,990 mm/km and pothole area 2.5 m2/km.
2.09      Section 4A-1, Yapei (km 325.0 to km 327.8), length 2.8 km.  As part
of a present contract (see Section 3C), bridge approaches are being construct-
ed.
2.10      Section 4B-1, Yapei (km 327.8) to Sankpala (km 347), length 19.2 km.
The pavement shows good to fair condition although shoulders are badly deteri-
orated.  Pothole area is 270 m2/km and roughness 3,180 mm/km.
2.11      Section 4B-2, Sankpala (km 347) to Tamale  (km 376), length 29 km.
This section has failed considerably. Although 29% of the pavement is in good
condition,  58% is in fair and  13% in bad condition.   Pothole patching is
measured at 273 m2/km and roughness is on the average 3,180 mm/km.  Shoulders
are in bad condition and several embankments are too low.   The structural
strength of the pavement  showed insufficient parameters.   CBR of base and
subbase are too low, causing cracking and severe rut depth.  In Tamale Town,
potholes of 900 m2/km and roughness of 7,000 mm/km are recorded.
2.12      Section 5.1, Tamale (km 376) to Damukumgili (km 386), length 10 km.
Seventy percent of pavement and shoulders are in bad condition, the CBR of
base course is 60%. Pavement roughness is 4,280 mm/km. Over the road length,
cracking, rutting and recent patching were observed.
2.13      Section 5.2, Damukumgili  (km 386) to Luari (km 474), length 88 km.
The former bituminous surface has failed, the road is now downgraded to gravel
road with a recorded average roughness of 7,720 mm/km.  From km 386 to km 393



- 78 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 6
and from km 435 to km 474, the existing pavement has failed, which is indicat-
ed by a pothole area averaging 3,760 m2/km and tested low CBR values.  Shoul-
ders are in bad condition.  The road width of 5.0 m is considered insuffi-
cient. Sections of embankment require reconstruction, and most of the exist-
ing box culverts and bridges, which were built in 1936, will require substan-
tial rehabilitation.
2.14      Section 6, Luari (km 474) to Bolgatanga (km 538), length 64 km.  The
road width with 5.00 m and 1.30 m shoulder is not sufficient.  Twenty-four
percent of the pavement, that is from Luari (km 474) to km 491 is in very bad
condition. Substantial cracking and rutting is observed. Roughness is on the
average 3,520 mm/km.  From km 491 to km 538, about 19% of pavement is in bad
condition, indicated by roughness of 4,220 mm/km, patching of 520 m2/km and a
pothole area of 442 m2/km.  Shoulders are badly eroded.
2.15      Section 7, Bolgatanga (km 538) to Paga (km 575.8), length 37.8 km.
This road section shows a generally good performance with 75% in good condi-
tion,  19% fair and 6% which has failed.  Roughness is 3,320 mm/km, pothole
area 202 m2/km and patching 93 m2/km on the average.  The bituminous carriage
way is 6.30 m wide with 1.20 m shoulders which are all in bad condition.
Substantial maintenance and rehabilitation of existing box culverts are
required.
III. IMPROVEMENT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED
3.01      For each section, a series of four improvement alternatives were
considered. These alternatives are briefly described in the following.
3.02      Alternative A.  Resurfacing by the addition of a new base course
layer, with the existing base downgraded to subbase.  This alternative would
be applicable for road sections with failed pavements or insufficient pavement
strength, and the surfacing would include double bituminous surface treatment
and subsequent resealing depending upon traffic volume.
3.03      Alternative B.  This is a reconstruction rather than a resurfacing
alternative. Where flooding requires the road embankment to be raised, where
the quality of the base or subbase is poor, and/or where road widening is
required, reconstruction of the road on a 200 mm base course was considered
with either a single or double bituminous seal.
3.04      Alternative  C.   A second reconstruction alternative,  but with a
thinner (150 mm) base course for immediate or subsequent strengthening by
asphalt concrete, depending upon forecast traffic volumes.
3.05      Alternative D.  Where pavement strengthening is required and where
traffic volumes will be in excess of 450 vehicles daily, an asphalt concrete
overlay was considered with the overlay thickness dimension to accommodate
forecast traffic.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 6
IV. IMPROVEMENT ALTERNATIVES PROPOSED
4.01       The study proposals are summarized in Table 1, which indicates the
particular improvement recommended for each road section, the initial invest-
ment costs in the period 1988-1991, the economic rate of return on the invest-
ment over the period 1988-2006, and the range of traffic currently experienced
over  each  road  section.   Traffic  volumes  are  expressed  as  a  range,  since
overall, many subsections were considered, each with differing traffic levels.
All investments proposed have a rate of return in excess of the Opportunity
Cost of Capital. Future road works recommended for the sections not included
in Table 1 are given in Table 2.
Table 1. Rehabilitation Alternatives Proposed and Costs
1988-1991    1986
Road     Length   Location        Proposed  Improvement       Investment Cost AADT     ERR
Section     (km)    (from-to)      Alternative:   Type             (US$'000)    Range     %
0          53.0   Kumasi-              D        Asphalt           3,837      694-645  38.0
Abofour                      Overlay
1          41.0   Abofour-             D        Asphalt           4,199      983-645  28.0
Afrantwo                     Overlay
2          86.0   Afrantwo-            D        Asphalt           6,052    1129-412  16.5
Kintampo                     Overlay
3A         76.0   Kintampo-            B        Resurfacing      11,548          229  32.7
New Kadelso
3B          7.8   New Kadelso-         A        Resealing           298          229  26.1
Morno
4B         48.2   Yapei-               B        Resurfacing        2,964         331  16.6
Tamale
5          98.0   Tamale-              B        Resurfacing      10,270    1317-415  43.6
Luari
6          64.0   Luari-               B        Resurfacing       4,680      415-381  16.2
Bolgatanga
7          37.8   Bolgatanga-          A        Resealing and     1,731      472-154  18.8
Paga                       Bridge Replacement
Totals      511.8                                                  45,579



- 80 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 6
4.02       Traffic growth rates are predicted to vary over the route length,
but overall growth is about  2.5%.   Considerable care was taken to ensure a
conservative approach towards economic evaluation, in the calculation of
vehicle operating costs and in investment costs. The economic rates of return
are based on investment costs less physical contingencies (which are dealt
with by sensitivity analysis) but include 25% for profit and overhead.
Table 2. Future Rehabilitation Proposed for Road Sections not Included in Table 1
Road    Length  Location'    Proposed Improvement  Investment Cost       1986 AADT ERR
Section    (km)   (from-to)   Alternative    Type      (US$'000)    Date     Range    %
3C       44.7   Morno-            A       Resealing     2,831    1992-2006   209    67.7
Fufulso
4 A-1      2.8   Yapei            A                       178    1992-2006   196   161.1
4A        16.5   Fufulso-         A           "         2,509    1999-2003   196    15.0
Yapei
Totals     64.0                                          5.518
4.03       The implementation  schedule  for the rehabilitation of Kumasi-Paga
road is given in Annex 3-13.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 81 -
ANNEX 3-,2
Page 6 of 6
FIGURE  1: Division of the Kumasi-Paga Road into Sections                          S
SECTIOH G ElEGTH      FRR
GE
Teas                          , ,awku               7              317      's.l
Boigatangs                                3.
6 ct           6t       sz t
, Nalenigu
iSLFI- - -  - - - - - - -- .            414.:        .
5.2             03.0    43.1
Nyankpal|
_             25 ~O smskia,giIs - -- - - - --      5.             -  I0  
Taji~~~~~~~je              .1    381.    1   5.3
7 <    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ~48-2   37t.            8    11.tt6
=  iniuIa  ~  ~\ - - _ _ _ _ _  | 48-1             19 e I .2
4    5*              29.
325.05   1        5
_urnuags AUnI                                            -~~' -~E4A1      4A     32505   iI 6   _S
3C             44.1
1 Mntne ~~~  ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~_                   3B      283.1    1. t    5 tI.
d "ew,, Kidelso                                                     25_.0
3A              lie    32.1
Wells              ICintamp                                                                -                -    I
Wenc hi
A                                                                   ~~~~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 850    865
T.cnlman
Sunyansi        fI ntwo     E-EIU,I---- --      ----- ---   _ _ _ - -    ___                             940
t_                                             ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~*.  1              450  :uo 
Abofour
Mampon;
\   M mpon                                                     0              53.0    31.0
K umasi



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Bridge Rehabilitation Program
1.        This project component is part of the Ghana Bridge Development
Program and comprises the rehabilitation of 20 bridges at a cost of
about US$5.5 m. Currently, 15 bridges are being rehabilitated under the
ongoing Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project.
2.        The Ghana Bridge Development Program is a long-term, multifac-
eted project, which includes a country-wide bridge inventory, a classi-
fication of bridges according to rehabilitation priority, evaluation and
implementation of a bridge maintenance system, preparation of detailed
design and tender documents for reconstruction of priority bridges and
site supervision of the works.
3.        A complete list of the bridges  included  in the Transport
Rehabilitation Project, their location, estimated investment, and type
of work required are given in Table 1. (See also the bridges' locations
on the attached map).   These bridges have the highest priority for
rehabilitation in the country, as determined in a study under the Ghana
Bridge Development Program (Reference: Feasibility Study, Second Stage,
Tahal Consulting Engineers, Ltd., Accra, December 1986).   Under this
study, 69 bridges were inspected by specialist teams, comprising Ghana-
ian and expatriate experts.   Structural,  geotechnical,  hydrological,
topographic and traffic-related aspects were studied and relevant data
on construction costs, materials and local techniques were collected and
analyzed.   All bridges   were  ranked  according  to the  ratio of net
present value and the correspondent investment (NPV/$). The rehabilita-
tion of all 69 bridges is justified over the periods 1989-91 (72% of the
investment), 1992-96 (19%) and 1997-2008 (9%), on the basis of economic
criteria. The total cost of the investment is evaluated at US$60 m.
4.        The  detailed  engineering  for  the bridge  component  of  the
Transport Rehabilitation Project (design phase) is being financed under
Credit 1601-GH, at a cost of US$410,000, and should be completed by
Tahal Consulting Engineers in January 1988.  The estimated construction
period is 22 months, and tenders are expected to be awarded in Ju-
ly 1988.
AF4IN
July 1987



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 2
Table 1
*
Bridges to be Rehabilitated under the Project
REGION               ROAD NO.       BRIDGE NO.      INVESTMENT ($1,000)       TYPE OF WORK
Local Foreign Total
Ashanti                44               2           244       733    977       Repair
Brong-Ahafo           821               2            24        71     95       Repair
Central                18             4,6           428    1,283  1,711        New
Eastern                43               2            12        37     49       Repair
Eastern                43               4            13        40     53       Repair
Northern               25               1           103       309    412       Reconstruction
Northern               65            4,5            332       998  1,330       Reconstruction
Northern              651             1,2            54       161    215       Repair
Upper                   7             5,6            16        46     62       Repair
Upper                   7          11,12              24       74     98       Repair
Upper                 655               1              3        7     10       Repair
Volta                  23               2             8        24     32       Repair
Western                19               5             78      233    311       Repair
Western                62               4            13        40     53       Repair
Western               621               2            11        34     45       Repair
Total                                             1,363    4,090  5,453
* Reference: Ghana Bridge Development Programme, Feasibility Study, Second Stage,
Tahal, December 1986.
WAPTR, June 1987



ANNEX 3-4
REPUBLIC OF GHANAPaeIo                                                                     6
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECTPae 1                                                              f6
Project Components for Railway Rehabilitation: Details                       Foreign Cost:   US$ (millions)
Local Cost: US$ (millions) or
(Cedis millions)
--   -  - -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  -I--      -  --  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - --  -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -
Description                !Foreign   !Local        :Total       H                                      Schedule of Disbursements
U(S$       USWIC)    US$I(c)  H1                         Foreign                                              Local
I     I            I ~~-- -- --i:  - -  -  - -  - --  -  - -  - -  - -  --  - -  - -  - -  --  - -  - -  - -  - --  -  - -  - -  -  -
A. EASTERN LINE                                                              H i    19B8         1989:       19901        1991         1988:       19891        19901        1991 i
---- ---- --                                              ----  ---   ----  ----  ---  ----   ---  ----  ----  ---  ----   ---  ----  ----   ---  ----  ---
I.Track Rehabilitation          i                                                   I 
Wi  CTR&I TSR                 1     3.74 1       4.20         7.941         0.75 1      0.94         1.571        0.49 *      0.84:        0.841        1.26:1       1.26
i1          (672):       (672)::                                                   I                                      i
(ii) Points & Crossings   1          0.36  1      0.10         0.46  1:      0.07  1    0.09  1       0.15         0.05 '       0.02  1     0.02         0,03  1      0.03 I
I  (16)1        (16)HII                                                   
(iii) Thersit Nelding            I     0.28  1      0.10  1     0.38  H       0.06 1       0.07 1       0.12  1     0.04 *       0.02 1       0.02 1      0.03  1    0.03 
I  (16):        (i6)H                                       I* 
(iv) Track. tools,             1      0.251       -            0.25  H       0.051        0.061       0.111        0.03         --                                    -
trolleys etc.            1111                                                                                        
(v) Chemicals for             1     0.061                     0.06H 1       0.011       0.021        0.03:t       0.01        -            -      I     -      I     -
Sleeper treatment    1                                          11                                                                            
fvi) Phys.Cont.  (2X)          10.0938  1 0.088 i              0.18  11 0.01076  10.02345 10.039396 10.012194                0.0176  10.0176  10.0264  1  0.0264
1  (14(1        (14)1                                         W                                     
Sub-Total                1     4.78 1       4.49         9.27          0,96:        1.20:       2.01  1      0.62         0.901       0.90:        1.35:f       1.351
1     (718):       (718)H                                                                              i           i
II. Signalling and                                                         aaaaaa
Tel ecomaunications           1aaI                                                                                                                              
(i  'Telecommunications   :         3.38  1      0.50  1      3.88   1      0.27  1     0.51 1       1.86  1      0.74 *      0.00  1      0.05  1      0.20  1      0.25  1
and Block Signalling!                         (80?1        (80WH              i           i                                                                
(ii) Station Signalling   1           2.61  1     0.10 1       2.71  H       0.21 1       0.39  1     1.44  1      0.57         0.00 1      0.01 1       0.04  1      045 1        Q 
a      :      ~~(16(1       (16)1        W                                                                                               
(iii) Phys.Cont.  (6Z)           10.3594  1 0.036  1  0.3954  110.02B752  10.05391  : 0.197671!0.079068                              0 10.0036  10.0144  1 0.018
Sub-Total                1     6.351        0.64:        6.99  :!      0.51  1     0.951        3.49         1.40 *      0.00:        0.06:        0.25:1       0.32:1
a1          (102(1       (102(1              a                                                                             
Sub-Total for EdStern Line            1 11.13            5.12  1 16.26  t:          1.46 1       2.15  I     5.50  1      2.02 *       0.90  1     0.96  1      1.60 1       1.66 
i     (B20)!             (820)1                W                                                              
--- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- - -- -- --   --  --  --  -- ---  --:!  --  --  --   --  ---  -   ---  --  -   ---  --  - a--a--       - --  --a -a---a          -- ---a



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Components for Railway Rehabilitation: Details
8.  CENTRAL LINE                 '          .                                                                                                    I
I. Track Rehabilitation                                                    ,
(i) CTR & TSR                  3.12        3.30       6.42        0.62       0.78       1.31       0.41       0.66 1    0.66        0.99        0 ?9
1    (528H1    (528)!                                   i                                *
(ii) Paints & Crossings          0.25   '!.07          0.32 H      0.05       0.06       0.11       0.03       0.01        0.01       0.02 1    0.02
9111) i    (11H                       I          I          '                      I
(iii) Thereit Welding             0.15       0.05       0.20 H'    0.03 1    0.04         0.06       0.02       0.01        0.01       0.02       0.02
(iv! Track tools,
trolleys etc.             I0.1         -          0.10 ::    0.02        0.03       0.04       0.01       -          -          -           -
(v) Chemicals for                                           1                                            1 *
Sleeper treatment          0.0n5       -          0.05 H      0.01       0.01       0.02       0.01       -          -          -           -    I
(vi) Phys.Cont.  02      Z '    .0734    0.0684    0.1418    0.01468   0.01835 10.030829 !0.009542   0.01368 :0.01368   0.02052   0.02052 *
'     ,      1~~~~~~~~11):  (11)1'                             I                     I          I '        
,   _  ,        ,           ,,   _      ,          .          .                     .          .          .          .a a, 
Sub-Total                  3.74        3.49       7.23        0 0.75,    0.94       1.57       0,49 *    0.70        0.70        1.05       1.05
a          ,    (558)!    (558)11                       .          .
------------------------------ --------- --------- --------- ,--------- --------- --------- --------- --------- '--------- --------- ---------'
11. Signalling and             ,          ,          ,          ,
Telecommunications        ,                                  a !  ,     ,          ,          ,                     ,
(i) Telecomlmunications         2.90       0.40 '     3.30        0.23       0.44       1.60       0.64       0.00       0.04 .    0.16         0.20
and Block. Signallingl           :      (64        !64: 
iii) Station Signalling          2.36      R0.0        2.44 ,      0.19       0.35       1.30       0.52       0.00 1    0.01 1    0.03 ,    0.04 I
(iii) Phys.Cont.  (6%)      .  0.3156    0.0288    0.3444 ,.0.025248   0.04734 :0.17358 10.069432                   0, 0.00288, 0.01152 1 0.0144 1
9          a .                   az!  a,     .          ,          I                     .           ,          .          . I
a          a ,     J   ,      d   a  ,      -  ,        a-                                     ,     a  _       ,  _          _     
Sub-Total                  5.58       0.51:      6.08::       0.45       0.84       3.07       1.23       0.00:      0.051    0.20:         0.251
---- ----------------------!--------- ----------!---------,!--------- --------- ----------  ------------'---------' -----  -----
Sub-Total for Central Line    ,    9.32           4.00 .   13.32 H       1.19       1.77       4.64 1    1.71        0.70       0.75        1.25 1    1.30 
(640)1     (640)',          a          ,          ,                      . 
------------------------------ --------- --------- ,---------,,---------',--------- -------------- --------- --------- --------- ---------



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Components for Railway Rehabilitation: Details
C. RAILWAY WIDE
1. Locosatives              ''X'                                                             
_____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *          I          I         I          I                                          
1i) Main line locomotive:    3.10 :   -            .3.10 ::   0.00 I   2.48 1   0.62 :   0.00 '    -              -          -         -
*         I         ,          ,,         ,          I         ,         .          .          I         I    
(ii) Spare parts for           1.00 :   0.05 :    1.05 ::   0.00 :   0.30 :   0.50 1   0.20              0.00      0.02 1   0.02 ,   0.02
aajor overhaul      It8                          (81:: "                                       '
(iii) Phys. Cant.:                                        I :  ::     :                              * 
Locomotives (02)            0         0:         0: '  O                         0:         0'        O   0     o          0         O
Loco. Spares (10) :    0.1 i   0.005 :  0.105 ::           0 :   0.03 :   0.05 :   0.02 '            0:  0.0015   0.00175   0.00175
Sub-total            :   4.20 :   0.06         4.26 ::    0.00 '   2.81 :   1.17         0 0.22 '   0.00 :   0.02        0.02 :   0.02 i                  x
i ,    (9):      (9)::                                         *                                         :
,   _   I    _   _,       ,,  _    _ _,   _~~~ II    I    _ _  _    ,  _                          __I__  _ ___
It. Wagon Rehabilitation   :           :                    I *
(i) Roller bearing       :   0.30 ,    0.01 :   0.31 ::   0.02           0.09 I   0.12 ,   0.98 *   0.00 :  0.003 :  0.004 :  0.004
conversion           :         ,       (2):      (2):: "        t         ,          '         '
(ii) Spare parts for      ,   0.80 ,   0.04 ,   0.84 ,,   0.04 ,   0.24 '   0.32 ,   0.20 *    0.00 ,  0.012 ,  0.014                  0.014 ,
for major overhauls            ,       (6),'     (6)::          ,         ,         ,          '         ,
(iii) 20 oil tankers            1.00:    -    ,    1.00         0.05:    0.40,    0.40:    0.15'    -    ,    -                -
wagons               :         '          '         "                                                                                    S
(iv) Phys. Cont.:         ,                                                              : ,  ,                                    : ,
Roll.Bear.Conv.(1OZ:    0.03 '  0.001 ,  0.031 ,,  0.0015      0.009     0.012 , 0.0075 '              0     0.0003 , 0.00035 :0.00035 :                 x
,     ,  ~~~(0.16):f  (0.16)1:                                                                                               Lo   '        
Li~
Wagons Spares(OZ)         0.08° ,  0.004 :  0.084 :,  0.004         0.024 ,  0.032 ,   0.02            0     0.0012 , 0.0014 , 0.0014 ,              °
(0.64):   (0.64)::          :                    :         *         '          '         '                           .
Oil Tankers (0!)             0         0          0:         0          0 :       0,         0         0 ,  O              0'         0:
Sub-total            '   2.21 ,   0.06 ,   2.27 ,,    0.11 1   0.76 ,   0.88 ,   0.45 U    0.00 ,   0.02 ,   0.02 ,   0.02
,     ,     ~~~~(9),   (9),                     ,,'                                                  , 
,,  _                     I_  _  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,         ,     _ _ . _  _ ___ , _  ____ _                                 



- 87 -
ANNEX 3-4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                                           Page 4 of 6
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Prolect Components for Railway Rehabilitation: Details
111. Workshop Rehabilitation                                                        I
Mi  Rehabf litation of        1    0.30        0.03         0.33 ::      0.02        0.12        0.12.       0.05 *      0.00        0.01        0.01 1    0.011
unidefflour wheel        i                 (4.8)1      (4.6(11 
lathe                                I                       11 
Uii) R~habi1itation of C&W           0.10 1    0.01 1        0.11         0.01        0.04 1      0.04        0.02 *      0.00 1    0.00 1    0.00            0.0'
Depot                                i     (1.6)1      (1.6)1              1                                                
(iii) Log stackers for          1     0.30        -    1      0.30  H      0.02 1      0.12        0.12 1    0.05          -           -      I    -      I    -
traffic dept. (3)        1           11                                                1
liS) E.D.T. cranes (lOT)M           0.10 1      -     1     0.10 11      0.01        0.04 1       0.04 1      0.02              :     ---
Cs) Spares for machine    1    0.40             -     1     0.40 11      0.02 1      0.16        0.46 1      0.06        -           -     I     -
tools and small          11                                  1                                                  
machines                                         1 i                                                
(nil Transport for all         1     0.10 1      -     1     0.10 11      0.01 1      0.04 1      0.04 1      0.02        -     I            1    -
Departments              1           11                                     
(vii) Phys. toot.:                                      1           1              
Rehab. Lathe (10%)   1        0.03 1 0.003 1 0.033  11  0.0015 1 0.012 1 0.012                       0.0045 *          01   0.0009 1 0.00105:  0,00105
1  (0.5)1      (0.5)2             1           1                        
Rehab.C&W Depot(10ZH:    0.01 1   0.001 1   0.011 11  0.0005                  0.004 1 0.004 10.0015 *                  01   0.0003 10.00035:0.00035
1     (0.2)1      (0.2)1             1                          i
Log Stackers(0t)    1                  0      ol          0            01          01          01          0'          01          01          01          0
E.0.T. Cranes (0l) 1             01          01i         01            01          01          01          0           01          01          01          0
M. Tools Spare~slO(10)        0.04 1         0 1    0.04 :1       0.002 1 0.016 1 0.016 1 0.006 *                      01          01          0 1         0
Transpor-t (10!)        1     0.01:t         01       0.0111   0.0005:t   0.004:    0.004:i  0.0015'                   01          01          01          0
Sub-total               1     1.39 1      0.04 1      1.43   1     0.07 1      0.56        0.56 1      0.21        0.00 1      0.01 1      0.02 1      0.02
1  (7.0(1      (7.11MM                                                             
IV. Technical Assistance          1           1          1            1                                                             
and Training                 I           i                        ,           I
Mi  Long-term TA            1     2.11 1      0.27 1      2.38 11       0.34        0.63 1      0.63 1      0.51 *      0.04 1      0.06        0.08 1      0.06
1  (43)1       (43)1:
(ii) Training for Staff   1         1.00 1     -     1      1.00   1     0.16 1      0,30 1      0.30 1      0.24        -           ---
(iii) Phys. Cost. (6%)        1   .1866 10.0162 1  0.2026  110.029856 10.05596 1 0.05598 10.044764 '0.002592 10.0048610.00486  10M036888
1   (3(1        (3(1 
Sub-total               1     3.30 1      0.29 1      3.58 11      0.53 1      0.99 1      0,99 1      0.79 *      0.05         OM.0        0.09 I      0.07
1      (46)1       (46(11            1           I
Sub-Total for Railwoay Side         1 11.10 1         0.44    111.54 11        0.71 1      5.12 1       3.60 1      1.67 *      0.05 1      0.13 1    0.14 1        0.12
1   70)1       (70(1             1            1           1           *           I           i
TOTAL of 4v6sC            1 31.5            9.56 1 41.11  11  .37 1               9.04 1     13.74 1    5,40 *        1.64 1      1.84 1      2.99    '13.09
1(1,530)1   (1,530)11:             1             i 
Note:  Allocation of Costs by Linle:
(With Physical Contingencies)
Eastern Line z                  14.80 1    5.27 1   20.06 11           1.70 1      3.4 1    6.69 1         2.'         0.91 1      1.00) 1    1.65 1        1.70
Central Line                1   10.98 1    4.06 1   15.95 11           1.30 1    2.54 1    5.16  1    1.96 *           0.70 1      0.77 1    1.27 1    1.32
Western Line =                   5.77 1    0.23 1    6.00 11           0.37 1    2.66 1        1.87 1    0.87          0.02 1      0.07 1      0.07 1    0.06



TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Components for Railway Rehabilitation: Details
RAILVAY COSTS SUIhARY
Total                             1988                         1989                          1990                          19l
-- -- ---  -- ---  ---_                               ___  _                                    - __  --   -------
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreiqn    Total    Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total
Eastern Line Rehab.                5.00    10.68    15.68       0.88       1.42     2.30      0.94      2.07      3.01      1.56      5.26     6.82      1.62      1.93      3.55
Central Line Rehab.                3.90      8.93    12.83      0.68       1.15     1.84      0.73      1.71      2.44      1.22      4.43     5.65      1.27      1.63      2.90
(incl.track,sign.,teleco.)   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   ------   --                                          ---
8.90    19.61    28.51       1.56      2.57      4.14      1.67      3.78      5.45     2.78      9.70    12.46       2.69      3.56      6.45
Physical Contingencies           0.22     0.84      1.06      0.03      0.09      0.12      0.04      0.14      0.18     0.07      0.44      0.51      0.00      0.17      0.25
Loco/Wagons New Units/Rehab.    0.10         6.20      6.30      0.00     0.11      0.11      0.03      3.51      3.54      0.04      1.96     2.00      0.04      0.63      0.66
horkshop Rehabilitation            0.04      1.30      1.34     0.00      0.07      0.07      0.01      0.52      0.53      0.01      0.52     0.53      0.01      0.20      0.21
T.A. for Nget. Support             0.27      2.11      2.38      0.04     0.34      0.38      0.08      0.63      0.71      0.08      0.63     0.71      0.06      0.51      0.57
Training Progras                   0.00      1.00      1.00     0.00      0.16      0.16      0.00      0.30      0.30      0.00      0.30     0.30      0.00      0.24      0.24
0.41    10.61    11.02       0.04      0.67      0.71      0.12      4.96     5.09      0.13      3.41      3.54      0.11      1.57      1.6              co
Physical Contingencies           0.01     0.21      0.22      0.00      0.01      0.01      0.00      0.06      0.07      0.00     0.09      0.10      0.00      0.05      0.05              1
Physical Contingencies           0.00     0.09      0.09      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.04      0.04      0.00     0.04      0.04      0.00      0.0i      0.01
Physical Contingencies           0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Physical Contingencies           0.02     0.19      0.20      0.00      0.03      0.03      0.00      0.06      0.06     0.00      0.06      0.06      0.00      0.04      0.05
0.03     0.49      0.52      0.00      0.04      0.04      0.01      0.15     0.16      0.01      0.19      0.20      0.01      0.lf      0.11
9.56    31.55    41.11       1.64      3.37      5.01      1.84      9.04    10.88      2.99    13.74    16.73        3.09      5.40      9.49
Above costs do not include Duty and Taxes
AF4IN
October 1987
OQ   z
o 
0    1



- 89 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 6 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
GRC: Technical Assistance Program (1988-91)
Senior           Middle
Department                 Management       Management   Supervisory
1. Finance                             1 x 24M (E)
2. Electronic Data Processing          1 x 12M (E)      1 x 6M (E)          -
3. Traffic, Marketing and Commercial        -           1 x 30M (E)  I x 30M (E)
4. Track                               1 x 24M (G)      2 x 30M (G)         -
5. Mechanical Engineering              1 x 24M (E)      1 x 24M (E)  2 x 30M (E)
6. Signalling & Telecommunications  1 x 30M (G)         1 x 24M (E)         -
7. Procurement                         1 x 30M (G)            -
8. Manpower                            1x  6M (E)             -
TOTALS                     96M (E)          54M (E)       60M (E)
84M (G)          60M (G)          -
180              144            60
Cost (in US$m)                            1.59             0.72           0.07
Notes: 1. (E) = Expatriate; (G) = Ghanaian.
2. About 15% of the fees of expatriate consultants is estimated
to be in cedis.
3. Estimated man-month rates for Ghanaian consultants for the
three levels are: US$3,000, US$2,000 and US$1,200 equivalent and
for the expatriate US$14,000, US$10,000 and US$6,000 respectively.
4. About 75% (ie: about 280m-m) of the total m-m of 384 will be for
project related'supervision.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 90 -                       ANNEX 3-4
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ghana Railway Corporation Training Program
On-going Training Program
1.        The Training Program envisaged in the design of the on going
project consisted of (a) the upgrading of the present technical training
facility from an old barracks to a proper training school with modern
didactic and practical training equipment; (b) modernization of the
course design, curricula and pedagogic techniques; and (c) training
supervisory and higher level staff in specific skills-acquisition
courses in institutions in Ghana and abroad. The new premises with 100%
local financing was not as construction is still locked in litigation
with the contractor.  The second object was fulfilled with the help of
consultants who redesigned all the technical training courses, prepared
new lecture notes and trained the trainers.  These courses covered the
entire  range  of  initiation,  refresher  and  promotion  courses.   The
existing facility trained: 869 trainees in 1984, 960 in 1985 and 966 in
1986.   The quality of  the courses  is of an adequate standard,  but
practical training is provided under operating conditions in the
workshops, on the track, etc., for want of laboratory facilities.
During these three years, 197 management level candidates and selected
senior supervisors were given professional training in in specialized
institutions  abroad.   Bursaries  were  provided  for  78 candidates  to
undergo management courses in institutions in Ghana like MDPI.
Training in the Proposed Transport Sector Project
2.        The training school is likely to be completed, in 1990.  It is
being financed by Government funds in the form of a capital subvention
to GRC. The initial imported equipment, audio visual equipment and some
books, will be provided by the project. Together with the modern course
design and trained instructors, GRC's training school will become fully
functional in 1991.  However, the most urgent need is to provide GRC's
managers with some railway management training, first in courses in
established institutions abroad, like the Ashridge Management Institute,
UK, and the Railway Staff College, India, followed by an on-the-job
role-modelling exercise  for about a year in Ghana.   This on-the-job
phase, which was limited to technical management in the on-going proj-
ect, will be expanded to the broader aspects of management like
engineering   economics,   economic   project   evaluation,   financial
performance evaluation, costing of maintenance functions, marketing and
commercial  strategies,  etc.   The Project will  finance bursaries  for
institutionalized  courses  in these areas.   The  Technical  Assistance
provided at the management level in the project will have the responsi-
bility for managing current training operations in order to attain
quantified targets in given time-frames as well as to function as
role-models on the job for the Ghanaian counterparts.   The management
and technical level training courses, the number of trainees and the
training disciplines are described on Page 2.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 91 -
ANNE.X 3-4
Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLTC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ghana Railways Training Progrm for 1988-91
(Figures - No. of Persons)
Training in Ghana
Training  Abroad               outside  CRC              Training in  GRC
Department and Level           M.T.          T.T.           M.T.          T.T.           M.T.          T.T.
T.  General Management
a)  S. M.                        3              2             3            --              3
b)  M. M.                       -_             __             _             __            _
c)  SUP.
d)  Art.                        --             --            --            --             --
II.  Traffic
a)  S. M.                        2              2             2 
b)  M.M.                        --              3             3             -              6                1
c)  SUP.                        --              5            --             -             --               12
d)  Art.                                                                                  --             320
III.  Supplies
a)  S. M.                       --              1             1             --             2               --
b)  M. M.                       --              I             1              2             2               --
c)  SUP.                        --             --            --              3            --                6
d)  Art                         --             --             -             --            --               6C
IV.  Civil Engineering
a)  S. M.                        2              3             4            --              3
b)  M. M.                       --              4             3              2             8
c)  SUP.                        --              3            --            --             --               74
d)  Art.                        --             --            --            --             --              360
V.  Mech. Engineering
a)  S. M.                        2              2             2             -              2               --
b)  M. M.                       --              4            --              2             8               --
c)  SUP.                        --              5            --             --            --              40
d)  Art.                        --             --            --             --            --             480
VI.  Signal & Telecom.
a)  S. M.                        1              7             1            __              I               _
b)  M. M.                       --              4             2              2             4               --
c)  SlIP.                       --              4             2            --              4               --
d)  Art.                        --             --            --            --             --             170
VIT.  Financial
a)  S. M.                        I             --            --             --            --               --
b)  M.M.                         1              7            --              7            --                1
c)  SUP.                         1                           --              2            --
V1TTT.  Accounting
a)  S.M.                         1             _
b)  M.M.                         I              I            __              I            __                I
c)  SUP.                        -                            -
IX.  Commercial
a)  S. M.                        l              1            --            --             --               --
b)  M. M.                       --             --            --              2                    --
c)  SUP.                        --             --            --            --             --               --
X.  Computer
a)  S. M.                        l             --            --            --             --                7
b)  M. M.                        1              2            --            --             --                7
c)  SUP.                         7              2            --            --             --                2
TOTAL                           20             5R            22             19            43           1,413
Legend:  M.T. - Management Training
T.T. - Technical Training
S.M. - Senior Management (top downwards up to Deputy HOD5)
M.M. - Middle Management
StlP. - Supervisory Staff
Art. - Artisan and working level
- * Seminars in Chana Railway Corporatton
AF4IN
July 1987



92 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Support for Transport Planning
Background
1.        Two  experts  from  UNDP  have  assisted  the  MTC's  Transport
Planning Department, from March 1986, in setting up planning systems and
a data bank and in training planning staff.  This work is likely to be
extended up to June 1988. By this completion date, the UNDP program is
expected to have: (a) completed detailed base-line studies; started a
data collection system, library and computer unit; provided useful
training to staff in planning, research, data collection, and computer
use; and initiated the basic framework for conducting and supervising
planning and project appraisal studies.  Judging from progress so far,
these objectives are likely to be met.
2.        The professional staff of the Planning Department increased
from 4 in December 1986 to 11 in April 1987 and is expected to be 15 by
December 1987. With a few exceptions, the staff are young graduates and
need further training and guidance.   In practice, the planning staff
have  been  busy  with  both  planning  and  implementation,  the  latter
including most matters regarding follow-up of Government policies,
transport-parastatals, project implementation, issue of import licenses,
and other routine work.  In order to streamline operations, Government
recently (from September 1987) reorganised the Department as a Planning
and Implementation Division (PID), with separate units for planning and
implementation functions.
3.        Provision  for transport  planning  studies  (US$500,000)  made
under the ongoing Railway Rehabilitation Project assisted the Planning
Department during 1986-87, in employing foreign and local consultants
for a few specialised studies which have assisted in planning.  These
included studies for preparing project components for the Transport
Rehabilitation Project (on subjects like: training needs in the sector;
vehicle-servicing facilities and the role of small garages; role of
intermediate transport and promotion of non-moter transport; financial
studies regarding public sector bus companies) and a major Road
Transport Sector Study (RTSS) now in progress. The Planning Department
has, with UNDP experts' support, been able to assist and supervise these
studies, while also receiving training for their staff through direct
involvement in some of these studies.
Future Strategy
4.        PID needs further strengthening and support, if it is to be
able to cope with planning for one of the largest public investment
sectors in Ghana.   For this purpose, it will need continued in-house
support from consultants, training of staff, addition of staff, and some



- 93 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 3
reasonable office accommodation and equipment.   In addition,  it will
need specialized consultants for conducting short term studies.
5.        It is expected that UNDP assistance will be continued into a
Phase II from July 1988 to December 1989; this will mainly consist of
continuation of the transport information specialist, and transport
economist/planner for about 18 man-month each. UNDP expects to approve
Government's recent request for a Phase II, subject to a formal review
of  the  results  of  Phase  I  to be  conducted  in  early  1988.   Such
extension, supplemented by proposed IDA inputs discussed in para 6
below, will help provide the following outputs:
(a) design, preparation and conduct of planning and policy studies
and project feasibility studies, involving TPD staff and
outside experts as needed;
(b) preparation of a Transport Sector Master Plan in early 1989,
with a 10-year horizon, and preparation of annual investment
plans for the transport sector;
(c) improvement of transport information system and data bank, and
regular issue of quarterly transport statistics:
(d) continuation of training in transport planning and research.
Proposed IDA Inputs
6.        IDA inputs for transport planning will be in the form of about
14 m-m of expatriate experts, 48 m-m of local experts, and travel and
other costs incurred by PID in conducting selected sector policy and
project feasibility studies.  These studies in which PID staff will be
involved as participants will actively assist in preparation of the
Transport Master Plan, 1990-2000, and in essential policy research.
These studies are relevant and essential, independently of the proposed
UNDP inputs.
7.        Attachment  I  lists  the  main  areas  for  study,  and  rough
estimate of consulting inputs needed.   The studies will be completed
during 1988-90. It was agreed during negotiations that detailed study
time table and terms of reference will be agreed between PID and IDA
before June 30, 1988, taking into account UNDP assistance which will be
confirmed by then.
Support to National Planning Commission for Infrastructure Planning
8.        The Government has recently decided to establish a National
Planning Commission (NPC).  The establishment is being coordinated by
the National Economic Commission.  The proposed project (TRP) includes
support to the Government, including studies and training and office
equipment, to assist the NPC in carrying out medium term infrastructural
planning for Ghana. Because of the early stage of establishment of NPC,
the precise nature of support has yet to be defined, but will



- 94 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 3
essentially consist of technical assistance for the development of
physical plans for infrastructure. The plans will be produced in close
cooperation with the sectoral ministries involved; this component of the
project will ensure integration of sectoral and national plans, and
realistic national planning consistent with sector needs and capacities.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 95 -
ANNEX 3-5
Attachment I
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
IDA Supported Planning Studies under TRP
Subject of Study                Consultants and PID a/
Inputs
(a) Commodity-transport studies: problems
in transport of main commodities,
suggestions for improvements (items,
demand levels, transport availability,
intermodal choices and costs,
related storage, organizational and other
improvements).                                   8LC - 2FC - 8PID
(b) Focus on rural transport (with case studies):
present situation, constraints, costs,
issues, solutions.                               8LC - 2FC - 8PID
(c) Lake Transport Study: performance, traffic
prospects, economic feasibility of further
investments.                                     OLC - OFC - 8PID
(d) Updating of road transport taxation and
road user charges: level, structure and
needed adjustments.                              3LC - IFC - 3PID
(e) Axle-load survey: survey of axle-load
configurations, vehicle overloading
and road damage (in coordination with GHA). 6LC - 3FC - 12PID
(f) Regional Transport Study: Ghana-Burkina Faso
-Mali Route: prospects and issues.               8LC - OFC - 8PID
(g) Economic Feasibility Studies on Selected
Projects.                                       9LC - 3FC - 12PID
(h) Preparation of Transport Sector Memorandum
and papers for a Transport Sector Seminar
in Ghana (on Sector Policy Issues and
investment needs).                               6LC - 3FC - 6PID
TOTAL                                        48LC - 14FC - 65 PID
a/ LC = Local Consultants; FC = Foreign Consultants.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 96 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 12
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Safety Program
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report is based on the findings of a mission to Ghana in
November 1986, on behalf of the Bank, by a road safety specialist,
Mr. A. Ross,   Consultant   (complete  report  in  Project  Files,  Document
No. D05617). The work was undertaken as part of the appraisal mission for the
proposed Transport Rehabilitation Project.
II. EXISTING TRAFFIC SAFETY SITUATION IN GHANA
A. Background
2.01      There is considerable difficulty in assessing the true situation
because of the limited availability of reliable statistics in the road safety
sector. As a consequence, there is much uncertainty and conflict in available
data and even fundamental transport data such as number of vehicles in use or
the number of valid driver licenses or different types of accidents are not
generally available in any comprehensive form.  Most police statistics are
recorded at regional level and only in a few cases are they compiled for the
country as a whole.
2.02      Virtually all of the present factors inhibiting the improvement of
road safety in the country emanate from the financial constraints imposed on
Government ministries in recent years. As a consequence, the road network is
rapidly deteriorating through inadequate maintenance, police enforcement is
very limited, known accident blackspots remain untreated, present driver and
vehicle testing needs improvement and only limited efforts are undertaken to
inform and educate road users about safer practices and accident avoidance.
B. Scale of the Traffic Accidents Problem in Ghana
2.03      Rapid deterioration of the road network in recent years because of
inadequate maintenance and the absence of road markings, road signs and
traffic control devices in Ghana has placed considerable strain on drivers and
pedestrians using existing facilities -- many of which were never designed for
the heavier flows which they now have to accommodate. Road accidents, fatali-
ties and injuries rose steadily from 1965 onwards, and only in relatively
recent  years have  the  trends  been  reversed.   During  the  20-year period
1965-1984, over 16,000 persons were killed and over 204,000 persons received
injuries which in many cases will handicap them for the rest of their lives.
Road accidents now result in over 700 persons being killed and around
7,000 persons being injured every year in Ghana (based on 1984 data). Many of
the victims require extensive medical attention, in some cases for life, and
are therefore an unnecessary additional drain upon the limited medical and
nursing resources of the country's health services.



- 97 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 12
2.04      Considerable under-reporting of accidents is suspected, and recent
police statistics of total accidents probably underestimate the scale of the
problem.
2.05      The compilation of annual statistics is now undertaken less rigor-
ously than it was in the past and there is some evidence to suggest that
reported accidents from all police regions are not always included in the
national  totals.   Failure  to  include  all regions  can obviously  give  the
erroneous impression of reductions in accidents.
C. Recent Trends in Traffic Accidents
2.06      Recent  trends in accidents and casualties are shown in Table 1.
Reported road accidents rose steadily from 6,733 in 1965 to a peak of 13,830
in 1973 and then stabilized at around 11,000 for the next five years (up to
1978) and at around 9,500 thereafter (up to 1983).  The numbers of persons
injured followed a similar pattern rising from 7,704 in 1965 to 13,237 in 1975
before stabilizing at around 10,000 for the next five years (up to 1980). In
contrast, the numbers of fatalities continued to rise steadily from 673 in
1965 to reach a peak of 1,000 in 1982 before dropping during the next two
years to around 700 deaths per year.
2.07      Whether the recent improvements are due to the decline in economic
activity in recent years or whether this is a genuine improvement resulting
from the activities of the National Road Safety Committee (NRSC) is not yet
clear.   Research is required to establish exactly why this small apparent
"improvement" has occurred in recent years.
D. International Comparisons
2.08      It is, however, possible to compare traffic accidents in Ghana with
other countries in relation to their respective vehicle populations by calcu-
lating, for each country, the ratio "deaths per 10,000 vehicles."  Ghana (in
terms of deaths/10,000 vehicles) has consistently had one of the highest
fatality rates in developing countries. The 1984 rate, for example, at 112 is
also more than 35 times as high as the equivalent rates in more industrialized
countries (e.g., rates for UK and USA are currently around three deaths/10,000
vehicles).
2.09      The accident  rate  in Ghana,  in terms  of deaths/10,000 vehicles
therefore, remains among the highest in the developing world as well as being
significantly higher than those of the more industrialized countries.
III. APPRAISAL OF MAJOR ROAD SAFETY RELATED ACTIVITIES
A. Introduction
3.01      Road accidents occur for a variety of reasons and the problem can
not be tackled successfully just by one Ministry working in isolation.
Responsibilities influencing road safety are usually dispersed among many
different government and non-government organizations and the problem can only
be tackled effectively through a comprehensive, coordinated and multi-disci-
plinary approach with each organization undertaking the necessary improvements
in its own sector of activity.  Consequently, in order to develop a suitable



- 98 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 12
strategy for the improvement of road safety in a country, it becomes necessary
to review current practices and procedures in the major safety related sectors
so that appropriate improvements can be implemented as part of a comprehensive
Road Safety Action Plan.  The remainder of this chapter briefly outlines the
current activities and deficiencies (in terms of road safety) in each major
sector of activity affecting road safety.
B. Road Safety Administration
Existing Situation
3.02      A National Road Safety Committee (NRSC) has existed, in one form or
another, in Ghana since around 1960, and the most recent structure was estab-
lished after the changeover from driving on the left in August 1974.  NRSC is
now placed under the Ministry of Interior and operates under the Ghana police
force.   It has the Inspector General of Police as chairman and 22 members
representing most of the ministries and organizations with road safety related
responsibilities.   NRSC  activities  are  financed by a subvention  from  the
Ministry of Interior through the police budget and the secretariat function is
provided on a part time basis by a superintendent of police who concurrently
has to carry out her normal police duties (including night shifts) as head of
the National Police Ambulance Service.
3.03      The major factors which have inhibited the effectiveness of NRSC
have been its total dependence for funds upon the allocation disbursed by
Ghana Police; the absence of legal backing for decisions on the road safety
issues; the absence of a permanent secretariat to follow through, coordinate
and implement NRSC decisions; and the lack of vehicles, qualified teachers and
equipment for its educational and road user training activities.  These have
all combined to make the NRSC much less effective than it could be. The NRSC
in Ghana with its National and Regional Committees, its representation from
relevant organizations, etc., has the potential to provide a very powerful
coordinating mechanism for the improvement of road safety in the country. If
the NRSC can be given adequate resources and made more effective, it can play
a much more important role in the next few years.
Major Improvements Required
3.04      The major improvements required in this sub-sector are:
(a) Legal status for NRSC, giving it official responsibility to coordi-
nate and promote road safety in Ghana.   This would give it more
power to have its recommendations accepted.
(b) The annual subvention should either be established at around
e 7.5 million (US$50,000) and should be disbursed directly to NRSC
by the Ministry of Interior, or, if that is not possible, considera-
tion should be given to providing a separate, guaranteed, regular
income which will rise in accordance with future increases in
vehicles and drivers.
(c) The establishment of a small permanent secretariat to support the
work of the NRSC.  This should consist, initially, of three full
time qualified staff with interests and knowledge in the fields of
education, publicity, traffic engineering or road safety and a
typist.  The secretariat should have its own fully equipped office



_ 99 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 12
and vehicles to support the NRSC activities and should be able to
draw upon qualified personnel from within the police service to
assist in its teaching/education activities rather than just having
unqualified teachers assigned to it.
(d) There is a need to adopt a more scientific approach to the problem
by identifying and quantifying, through accident analysis, the road
users at greatest risk and directing education and publicity cam-
paigns  specifically  at  such targets.   There  is also  a need  to
establish detailed, clear, and unambiguous road safety objectives at
national and regional levels  so that  the work of NRSC and its
subcommittees can be directed towards specific goals (e.g., a 30%
reduction of child pedestrian accidents over a five year period).
Advance specification of targets in this way helps to direct the
work and activities towards the necessary practical measures and
policies to bring about the required improvement.
C. Accident Data Collection, Storage, and Analysis
Existing Situation
3.05      The Ghana police are responsible for accident data collection and
all newly-recruited policemen are taught how to complete the police accident
report.  Normally, the details of the accident are entered into the Accident
Register and a unique number given to each case.  The case file is normally
retained at each reporting station and the overall numbers of dead, injured,
etc., are relayed up through the different levels, i.e., police station to
District HQ to Divisional HQ to Regional HQ to National HQ.
3.06      Up until around six years ago, the BRRI had been involved in under-
taking accident analysis, and special BRRI accident forms (designed with the
assistance of TRRL experts from England) had been used to supplement data
collected by police at each accident site. BRRI had an established system for
periodically chasing up and collecting such forms so that they could analyze
the characteristics and nature of road accidents in Ghana.  The downturn in
the economy in the late 1970s, reduced staff and resources at BRRI and de-
creasing willingness of police personnel to complete the forms (especially as
there was no longer anyone from BRRI chasing up missing forms) led to disuse
of the BRRI form and cessation of BRRI activities in this area.  Whereas the
BRRI system of analysis by main frame computer did provide good understanding
of the characteristics and nature of the problem as well as accurate statis-
tics, the present police system is barely capable of providing even the total
numbers of accidents, deaths and injuries each year -- and even these basic
statistics can be highly suspect at times.
3.07      Despite the obvious inadequacies of the present police system of
accident data collection, storage, retrieval and analysis, there are still
very good opportunities to establish an effective accident data system in
Ghana.   The  existing police practice  of all  constables  being  trained to
complete accident reports and specialist accident units in each district is
potentially very good.  Based on examination of several Accident files, the
quality, content and presentation of the limited data which is collected at
present is also of a good standard.   If an adequate police form could be
introduced which met the processing and prosecution needs of the police while
at the same time including the additional information necessary for effective



- 100 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 5 of 12
road safety work and the existing police personnel trained in its completion,
then a very good data collection system could be developed for Ghana.
Major Improvements Required
3.08      The major improvements required in this sub-sector are:
(a) the adoption of uniform unambiguous definitions (e.g., UN standard
definitions) for classifying traffic accidents, deaths and injuries
throughout Ghana;
(b) the design and introduction (after suitable training of police
personnel) of a new police accident form combining the prosecu-
tion/processing details of interest to the Ghana police and the
site, vehicle, weather and driver details, etc., of interest and
required by BRRI staff for their micro-based accident storage and
analysis system (one copy to be retained in the police accident file
and the second copy of the form to be passed on to BRRI for storage
of data on computer);
(c) regular analysis of stored data to identify accident blackspots on
the road network and to identify the factors and road users most
frequently involved in traffic accidents; and
(d) regular provision of accident data analysis to NRSC and its Secreta-
riat so that their activities can be targeted more scientifically at
the real, rather than assumed, causes of road accidents in Ghana.
D. Highway Authorities and Hazardous Location Improvements
Existing Situation
3.09      At present,  there are few traffic engineers in Ghana and little
specialist expertise available on traffic engineering, accident blackspot
analysis and the design of low cost engineering improvements.  Furthermore,
the existing traffic engineering design standards are very dated and need to
be updated to reflect modern knowledge about how best to improve traffic
safety and traffic capacity of roads and junctions. There are few opportuni-
ties for Ghanaian road engineers to learn such techniques in Ghana at present
as no courses are organized in these fields.  The adoption of techniques of
traffic engineering, safety conscious design and low cost remedial measures
can, at very low cost, bring about significant improvements in the operational
efficiency and safety of the GHA road network.
Major Improvements Required
3.10      The major improvements required in this sub-sector are:
(a) short annual courses in traffic engineering, blackspot analysis and
the design of low cost engineering remedial measures to update the
knowledge of road engineers from GHA and other interested agencies;
(b) provision of regular information to regional engineers on the
locations of accident blackspots on the roads in their region and
detailed analysis of the types of accidents occurring 'at-fsicTsites



- 101 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 6 of 12
so that the specific problem at each site can be identified and, if
possible, remedied through low cost engineering improvements;
(c)  updating of existing traffic engineering design standards to make
them more relevant and appropriate to the needs of GHA engineers
facing traffic congestion and road safety problems on GHA roads,
especially in urban areas;
(d)  increased provision of road marking paints and reflective materials
for use in manufacturing road signs and increased installation of
such advance warning signs and road maarkings to improve the opera-
tional efficiency and safety of roads in Ghana; and
(e)  introduction of procedures for regular identification, analysis and
treatment of hazardous locations on the GHA road network as part of
routine periodic maintenance and implementation of a "one off"
special accident blackspot improvement program to identify and
improve the very worst known blackspots on the country's roads.
E. Traffic Policing and Enforcement
Existing Situation
3.11      Traffic policing in Ghana is undertaken by the Motor Traffic Unit
(MTU) which is a part of the Ghana Police Force. The MTU headquarters are in
Accra and there are Regional MTU HQs attached in each case to the Regional
Police HQs.   Their primary role is enforcement of traffic regulations and
direction of traffic and, where necessary, assistance on road accidents.
However, there are separate road accident units within the general police
force, so the road accident  reporting  function is shared.   The MTU are,
however, responsible for arranging that vehicles damaged in road accidents are
examined by MTC vehicle inspectors to establish whether they were defective or
unroadworthy before  the accident  occurred.   Accident-damaged  vehicles  are
either towed to the MTU yard and then onto the MTC vehicle inspection office
or, if this is not possible, the vehicle inspectors visit the site to examine
the vehicle.   Out of a total Ghana Police Force of around 80,000 persons,
there are only about 500 persons in the MTU section (i.e., 0,6%).
3.12      Only a very few MTU officers in Ghana as a whole can drive since a
driving license is not a pre-requisite before being assigned to MTU duties.
Consequently, many of those responsible for enforcing better driver behavior
have themselves no experience of driving a vehicle!
3.13      Within the very limited resources available, the MTU do attempt to
provide an enforcement function, but with no vehicles to patrol roads, no
radios and no enforcement equipment, their role in reality is largely relegat-
ed to traffic direction duties.
Major Improvements Required
3.14      The major improvements required in traffic police enforcement are:
(a) All personnel assigned to MTU should be in possession of a driving
license before they are assigned, and preferably all should have
undertaken and  passed  an advanced  policy  driving  test.   It  is



- 102 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 7 of 12
paradoxical that enforcement of drivers is currently being
undertaken by MTU personnel who can not themselves drive.
(b)  The MTU traffic enforcement capability needs to be significantly
strengthened if it is to perform an effective traffic policing
function.   They need significantly increased numbers of vehicles,
better communications and enforcement equipment.
(c) Several MTU personnel should be deployed to each of the Ghana Police
roadblock sites on a continuous basis to carry out traffic police
related checks since the drivers and vehicles are conveniently
stopped anyway. Although not a replacement for mobile patrols, this
can, at least, provide some traffic-related enforcement until the
MTU can be strengthened.
(d) More resources training and priority needs to be allocated, within
the Ghana Police, to the traffic policing function, as they are
currently under-resourced for the task that they are required to
perform.
F. Vehicle Inspection and Registration
Existing Situation
3.15      The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) is responsible
for the roadworthiness inspection of vehicles in Ghana and the work is under-
taken by its licensing section with headquarters in Accra and 18 inspection
stations  spread  throughout  the  country.   The  licensing  office  technical
officers, apart from carrying out the twice-yearly roadworthiness inspections
of vehicles, also function as driving test examiners.  In addition, they are
used as a technical resource by the police to examine accident-damaged vehi-
cles to assess if vehicle defects contributed to the accident.
3.16      The traffic regulation LI 953 of 1974 requires every vehicle in the
country to be examined for roadworthiness at six-monthly intervals, and this
is applied uniformly irrespective of vehicle age.  Upon passing the inspec-
tion, a safety sticker is issued indicating that the vehicle is licensed'up
until the end of the month displayed on the sticker.   Unfortunately,  the
stickers now in use are not self-adhesive and the Licensing Office is not
provided with the necessary glue.  The safety sticker is therefore now just
handed to the vehicle owner, and most drivers do not bother to display it on
the vehicle windscreen.   As a consequence,  enforcement becomes much more
difficult as it can not just be assumed that vehicles without a sticker
displayed  are unlicensed.   This makes  it more  difficult  to  identify  and
prosecute the unscrupulous owners who are able to drive around with impunity
in unroadworthy vehicles.
3.17      Although the Examination and Licensing Division are required by law
to carry out the twice yearly inspections, they have very inadequate facili-
ties and equipment to carry out this function.  The Accra Inspection Station
has a partially completed building with inspection pits, but lack of finance
has prevented completion of this facility.  The other inspection stations in
the country generally operate with even more limited facilities. To increase
the quality of vehicle examinations, there is a need to improve the facilities
and equipment at vehicle inspection stations in the main urban areas of Ghana.



- 103 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 8 of 12
3.18      At present,  the only estimates available of the total number of
vehicles in the country are those derived from the vehicle inspections, but
these are almost certainly an underestimate since some vehicles just are not
presented for the regular roadworthiness test.  A re-registration exercise is
to be undertaken to establish a new baseline level for the number of vehicles
in use in the country.
3.19      By issuing a new type of number plate, all vehicles, whether cur-
rently licensed or not, will be forced to re-register in order to obtain their
new plates, but before registering, they will first be required to pass the
roadworthiness  test.   This  should bring  all  those  currently  unregistered
vehicles  into the official  statistics.   A file will be created  for each
vehicle and the main details of each vehicle will be recorded on a microcompu-
ter. The re-registration exercise has been approved by the Government and is
due to commence in early 1987.
Major Improvements Required
3.20      The major improvements required in this sub-sector include:
(a)  acquisition and installation of vehicle inspection equipment  (pit
jacks, roller brake testers, headlight alignment testers, etc.) to
make the vehicle inspection more thorough at Accra station;
(b)  completion of buildings, pits, etc., at Accra station to house the
above equipment and the building of office and inspection facilities
(pits, etc.) at Kumasi, Takoradi and Tema; and
(c)  acquisition of equipment to manufacture the new type of registration
number plates  and  the necessary materials  to produce  reflective
number plates.
IV. AN ACTION PLAN TO IMPROVE ROAD SAFETY
Proposed Action Plan
4.01      A proposed Action Plan has been designed  to achieve  three main
objectives.
(a)  key strategic improvements to bring about immediate benefits in the
road safety sector in Ghana;
(b)  the  commencement  of  systematic  and methodical  analysis  of  road
accident data so that the true characteristics and nature of the
problem can be properly defined so that appropriate remedial mea-
sures can be devised and implemented; and
(c)  institution  building  and  manpower  development  to  increase  the
capability of Ghanaian personnel and institutions to tackle road
safety problems more effectively in the future.
4.02      This will be done by improving the effectiveness of the National
Road Safety Committee which is responsible for coordinating the various
ministries involved in road safety; by improving vehicle inspection and
registration facilities; by establishing an improved system of accident



- 104 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 9 of 12
storage and analysis; by improving road markings and traffic signing on major
roads; by increasing traffic police enforcement activities by financing some
vehicles and equipment for the Motor Transport Unit (i.e., traffic police) by
training road engineers in basic techniques of blackspot analysis and design
of low cost remedial measures and by increasing the capability of the Building
and Road Research Institute (BRRI) to undertake effective research on road
safety issues. Under the proposed credits to the highway sector, the Govern-
ment will be required to give priority to carrying out remedial works at
existing known accident blackspots through a special program of works and to
the regular identification and treatment of hazardous locations as part of
their periodic maintenance program.
4.03      The areas requiring priority attention have been included in the
proposed IDA-funded safety component, and expenditure plan for this is in
Table 1 attached.
4.04      The limited funds available necessitate that many other important
areas have to be left for the moment to be tackled in the future.
AF4IN
September 1987



- 105 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 10 of 12
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Safety Component in Ghana by Sector of Expenditure
Amount
USS              Cedis
SUB-SECTOR OF EXPENDITURE
1.  VEHICLE INSPECTIONS/TESTING (MTC)
Equipment for Accra Testing Station:
-- 2 roller brake testers + cover plates + spares S $22,500/set           45,000
-- 2 headlight testers + spare parts c $1,250                              2,500
-- 2 axle play testing devices + spare parts S $9,250                     18,500
-- 2 inspection pit jacks S $4,250                                         8,500
-- 2 wheel alignment measuring devices + spares S $3,750                   7,500
-- 2 minibuses (Brazilian type) g $5,000                                  10,000
Installation Cost for Equipment, say $4,000 - 600,000 cedis                                 600,000
Construction of Building + Pits, etc.:
=- Completion of Accra facilities $50,000                                 50,000
- Construction of facility at Kumasi $20,000                              20,000
-- Construction of facility at Takoradi $10,000                           10,000
-- Construction of facility at Tema $10,000                               10,000
Sub-total 1                                                               182,000           600,000
Local Costs + Inputs Required
-- Presume Bank pays foreign exchange component
of building costs (90%) and MOTC pays 10%                                                    1.5 mln
Total Expenditure                                                         182,000            2.1 mln
2. HIGHWAY AUTHORITIES AND ROAD SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
(Ministry of Highways)
Road Marking Paint 40,000 kilos $200,000                                   200,000
Traffic Sign Materials (reflective, e.g., Scotchlite)
6,000m x lm in each color: blue, white, red, black                        164,000
Sub-total 1                                                               364,000
Two Annual 2-week Courses for Roads Engineers on Traffic
Engineering & Accident Blackspot Remedial Measures
-- 2 foreign lecturers to participate in first 2 courses
$21,000 per course                 42,000
-- local costs, lecturers 100,00 cedis
material production      50,000 cedis
delegates/trainees (25 per course)
accommodation + subsistence costs 1.03 million cedis
(Total e 1.2 miln/course for 2 courses)                                                  2.4 mln
Local consultancy contract for BRRI to update traffic design
standards for Ghana
6 man-months x 20,000 cedis/mth - 120,000
material/printing, etc.           - 180,000                                                 300,000
Sub-total 2                                                                42,000            2.7 mln
Local Costs and Inputs Required
GHA manufacture of signs, application of markings,
installation of signs, etc.
GRA and other ministries to cover cost of running courses and
sending trainees to courses from 3rd year onwards                              --                 --
Total Expenditure Required                                                406,000            2.7 mln



- 106 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 11 of 12
Table 1 (con't)
Amount
US$              Cedis
3. ROAD SAFETY C/TEE (MINISTRY OF INTERIOR)
(a) Equipment/vehicles for National Road Safety C/tee (NRSC)
1 typewriter               1 S S 1,000
1 photocopier              1 S $ 4,000    S 5,000                       5,000
2 vehicles for use in Educ/publicity 2 g $20,000                       40,000
1 minibus (for use by Secretariat)   1 c $15,000                       15,000
2 slide projectors + screens
2 film  projectors + screens                                           20,000
Various teaching aids, educational, and publicity
materials, films, etc., from overseas
(to be itemized later)
Sub-total 1                                                                80,000
(b) Local Costs and Inputs Required for Effectiveness
NRSC annual subvention of 0 7 million/annum                                           7,000,000
Establishment of a full/time Secretariat (SRN technical
officer, 2 technical officers and 1 typist)
Annual salaries 500,000 Cedis                                                           500,000
Sub-total 2                                                                                  7.5 mln
Total Expenditure Required                                                  80,000           7.5 mln
4. ACCIDENT DATA SYSTEM
(Ghana Police, Building and Road Research Institute, MTC)
-- Development, testing & printing
of new police accident form                             $10,000         10,000
-- Microcomputer for BRRI to use for accident analysis  $25,000            25,000
-- Consultancy advice intermittently over 18 months
to assist in installing the TRRL accident analysis
system on BRRI computer and in establishing the
new accident data system: 6 m-m S $15,000/mth
(incl. fares, fees, accom, subsist, etc.,)              $90,000         90,000
-- Local consultants (BRRI) as counterparts being trained
2 persons x 24 months x 20,000 C/mth - 960,000 ($6,100)
+ expenses, etc., of 540,000 ($8,600) - 5,400,000 + 960,000                            1,500,000
-- Vehicles for use by consultant and for collecting accident forms
from the Regional Police HQs: 3 vehicles x $20,000 - $60,000            60,000
Sub-total 1                                                               185,000         1,500,000
Local Costs and Inputs Required
Technicians, researchers at BRRI
say 4 x 10,000 cedis/mth over 3 years                                                      1.44 mln
Sub-total 2                                                                                1.44 mln
Total Expenditure Required                                                 185,000          2.40 mln



- 107 -                                  ANNEX 3-6
Page 12 of 12
Table 1 (con't)
Amount
US$              Cedis
5. VEHICLE RE-REGISTRATION (MOTC)
Machines + equipment to manufacture license plates
(This is expected to be implemented as a pilot project
in the private sector; IDA will onlend US$150,000 for
this purpose through SSB; see Annex 3-8)
6. TRAFFIC POLICE (MTU) MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
-- 5 cars (with police radios) g $20,000                                  100,000
-- 9 750cc police motor cycles S $5,500                                    50,000
Local Costs + Inputs Required
Running costs (fuel, etc.) to be paid for by MTU
Total Expenditure                                                         150,000
Total base cost (Not including taxes)                                   1,003,000          14.7 m.n
(US$0.09 m)
TOTAL IDA FUNDED ROAD SAFETY COMPONENT AMOUNT                           US$1.1 MILLIONS
(Excluding contingencies and taxes)
Local Inputs Required From Ghana Government
(1) Annual subvention to NRSC of e 7.0 million for road safety activities and e 0.5 million for
salaries of the proposed permanent NRSC Secretariat -- a total amount of e 7.5 million/year.
(2) Four technicians/researchers to be appointed by BRRI to analyse accident data, prepare
statistics, i.e., total salaries e 480,000/year.
(3) Cost of continuing short annual courses for road engineers in Ghana and cost of sending
delegates, their accommodations, subsistence, etc., to be borne by GHA and other
authorities from the 3rd year onwards.
(4) Local cost element of building proposed vehicle inspection stations (90% of total cost to be
paid by Bank and 10% to be paid by Ghana Government). The 10% local cost element amounts to
e 2.1 million.
(5) Cost of materials and production in manufacturing vehicle number plates. This can be
recovered directly from the vehicle owners by selling the new number plates.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 108 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Training Programs for Road Transport and GCAA
1.        Although the training programs include a short section on the
Ghana Civil Aviation (GCAA), the bulk of the training activities deals with
road transport. Attachment 1 gives the breakdown of estimated numbers and
categories of personnel to be trained.
A. Road Transport
2.        The road transport sub-sector is handicapped by over-aged vehi-
cles, obsolete mechanical maintenance and repair facilities, and shortages
of spare parts. The industry also suffers from inadequate manpower plan-
ning and training programs. Overall, there is a considerable shortage of
qualified middle and high level managers and surplus of unskilled staff.
Most low-level personnel never participated in organized training programs.
Assistant mechanics and apprentices, for example, are usually trained by
garage owners, usually mechanics, who very often need upgrading themselves.
Most drivers have learned how to operate vehicles through friends rather
than at experienced driving schools. Although, initially, garage and
bus/truck associations requested their own training facilities, it was
agreed that it would be more cost-effective to upgrade some of the existing
technical training institutes. The improved facilities and expertise would
thus continue to be available long after the project is completed.
3.        The objectives of the training program are to: (a) produce
qualified personnel within the road transport sub-sector; (b) strengthen
and expand the capacity of four technical/management training institutes to
enable them to conduct intensive, short-term seminars and training courses
for road transport personnel; and (c) establish a permanent, full-time
training function (training officer) within MTC. The training program
includes: (a) the establishment of a Training Steering Committee; (b) the
purchasing of training equipment and materials; (c) technical assistance,
including a training advisor; (d) the preparation and implementation of
seminars and training courses; and (e) training abroad through fellowships
of selected MTC staff. It is estimated that some 2,700 persons from
managers and accountants to mechanics and bus/truck drivers will be re-
trained and upgraded during the first four years from mid-1988 to
mid-1991).   Trainees will attend seminars and training courses varying
from one week to three months.
4.        Transport managers and administrative staff, and small garages
owners are expected to attend short management seminars to be conducted
mainly by the Management Development Public Institute (MDPI) with some
assistance from expatriate specialists. Topics will vary from basic
principles of road transport management and bus routes scheduling, to
reading repair manuals and reviewing mechanics' work and responsibilities.
5.        Training of mechanical personnel including master mechanics,
assistant mechanics and apprentice mechanics, will be carried out by the
Accra Technical Training Center (ATTC) and the Kumasi Technical Institute



- 109 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 4
(KTI), both under the Ministry of Education (MOE). In addition to brief
theoretical instructions (20%), the three-month courses for mechanics would
focus of practical workshop aspects (80%), under the supervision of quali-
fied instructors. The upgrading of small garage owners would include short
sessions on topics such as planning and execution of repair jobs and
vehicle problem diagnosis, as well as six-week seminars on basic principles
of management and general bookkeeping to be conducted by MDPI.
6.        Retraining of bus and truck drivers will be conducted by the
National Vocational Training Institute (NVTI), under the Ministry of
Mobilization and Productivity (MMP), at their centers in Accra and Kumasi.
Although each center can retrain up to about 300 drivers per year, and thus
handle some 2,300 drivers during the four-year program, the actual number
of drivers who will attend the two-week refresher courses may be less
because of budgetary and organizational constraints.
7.        Four technical/management training institutes -- ATTC, KTI, NVTI,
and MDPI have agreed to conduct seminars and training courses for road
transport personnel at most levels, starting in mid-1988. One-day seminars
will also be conducted by MDPI for staff and instructors directly involved
in the training program to familiarize them with the IDA project, particu-
larly the training component. In order to carry out these training activi-
ties, the institutes will receive, through MTC, IDA funds for (a) training
equipment and materials; (b) additional instructors; (c) short-term techni-
cal assistance; and (d) a small tuition fee for reading materials, uniforms
and other miscellaneous items. The content of seminars and training
courses would be fully discussed and agreed between the training institutes
and representatives of the Ghana National Association of Garages (GNAG) and
Ghana Road Transport Council (GROTRAC) to ensure maximum effectiveness.
Supervision of Training by MTC
8.        Given the large number of ministries, training institutes, and
beneficiary associations involved in the training program, a Training
Steering Committee (TSC) will be established under MTC's supervision. TSC
will consist of a small group of executives from MTC, GCAA, GNAG, GROTRAC,
and three training institutes, whose main functions would be to review the
content of seminars/courses and ensure that the objectives of the training
program are met. The MTC's training officer will act as the executive
secretary of TSC.
9.        The position of training officer will be established within
MTC's Planning and Implementation Division (PID). After an adequate period
of training abroad and in-service, as counterpart to the expatriate
training advisor, the training officer will be responsible for supervising
the implementation of all training activities. This was confirmed during
negotiations. Draft terms of reference for the training advisor are in the
Project File. Agreement was reached with the Government that the appoint-
ment of the training advisor (24 m-m) and the MTC training officer, the
setting up of TSC and the execution of subsidiary agreements will be
completed by April 30, 1988. Both GNAC and GROTRAC are very supportive of



- 110 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 4
the training effort and have confirmed their willingness to make contribu-
tion toward the cost of training. The execution of a subsidiary agreement
between MTC and each training institute and transport association regarding
administrative, financial and operational arrangements for the services to
be rendered by them is a condition of disbursements for the training
component of each agency. A draft subsidiary agreement is in the Project
File. The project will also finance a manpower and training needs survey
of the transport sector to guide future actions. Draft terms of reference
for the survey and cost estimates for the training program are in the
Project File.
Institutional Capacity Development
10.       Most of the private bus companies consist of one-bus owners.
Similarly, many wayside garages and magazines consist of one master mechan-
ic or a master mechanic employing four to six helpers who are retained in
exchange for training and food. Although they provide valuable services,
working conditions in most of these garages, particularly those in Kumasi
(Suame Magazine) and Accra (Odowna) are appalling. In addition, they are
handicapped by shortages of workshop equipment and tools, spare parts and
suitable working sites. GNAG, which was recently formed, suffers from
shortages of funds and limited experience in resolving many of its pressing
problems. IDA could help improve the situation, for example, by urging MTC
to assist GNAG in (a) transferring the wayside garages and magazines to
suitable light industries development areas with adequate sites, roads and
services; (b) purchasing workshop equipment and tools through bulk order-
ing; and (c) strengthening GNAG's managerial and organizational capacity.
A somewhat similar approach could be used to strengthen GROTRAC. Because
of the weak institutional aspects of most wayside garages and road trans-
port companies and the very nature of manpower development, all benefits
contemplated in the training component may not be fully achieved, but the
potential benefits far outweigh the associated risks.
The Technical Education and Vocational Training System
11.       The responsibility for developing policies and programs of
vocational/technical education and training is shared by the Technical and
Vocational Education Division (TVED) of MOE and the NVTI of MMP. Dozens of
technical/vocational training institutes exist in Ghana financed either by
the Government or international aid (or both), most of which require more
recurrent funds, additional training equipment and materials, relevant
training courses, and more experienced instructors. Unfortunately, coordi-
nation of training activities between MOE and MMP is very weak. Issues
such as assessment of training needs, adequacy and utilization of training
facilities, and preparation of relevant training programs have not yet been
resolved. Training activities conducted so far have taken place mostly
because of individual initiatives and interests and not according to a
coordinated plan. This problem was brought up to the attention of both
ministries, and MOE assured that a joint meeting was planned shortly to try
to resolve some of the existing issues.



- 111 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of 4
B. Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA)
12.       Like other transport agencies, GCAA's institutional capacity also
needs to be strengthened. The project provides funds for (a) technical
assistance to help improve GCAA's organization including three training
schools; and (b) upgrading technical staff. About 12 technicians from
Radio Engineering, Air Traffic Control, and Communication Operations
Sections will attend short training courses abroad (Canada, Thailand, UK,
and US) as these courses are not available in Ghana. Alternatively, ICAO
experts would be recruited for short terms to conduct relevant seminars
and/or courses in Accra.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 112 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 1
Estimated Number of Road Transport and GCAA Personnel to be Trained
Description/Level                                         Number
I. Private Bus/Truck Companies
(i)  Managers                                                    100
(ii)  Administrative/Accountants                                   63
(iii)  Drivers                                                     800
Sub-Total           963
II. Wayside Garages
(i)  Small Garage Owners (Master mechanics)                      300
(ii)  Assistant mechanics                                         750
(iii)  Apprentice Mechanics                                        300
Sub-Total         1,350
III. Road Transport Associations
(i)  Ghana National Association Garages (GNAG)                    25
(ii)  Ghana Road Transport Council (GROTRAC)                       25
Sub-Total            50
IV.  Public Bus Companies -- STC, CES, OSA
(i)  Managers                                                     30
(ii)  Administrative/Accountants                                   60
(iii)  Mechanics                                                   150
(iv)  Drivers                                                     100
Sub-Total           340
V. MTC
Transport Planning Department                                        15
Sub-Total            15
VI. GCAA
(i)  Air Traffic Control Section                                   4
(ii)  Radio Engineering Section                                     4
(iii)  Communication Operations Section                              4
Sub-Total            12
SUMMARY
I.  Private Companies                                                2,313
II.  Garage/Road Associations                                             50
III.  Public Agencies                                                     337
TOTAL             2,740
NOTE
The actual number of personnel to be trained will depend on (a) MTC's
ability to (i) complete agreements with the training institutes
rapidly as this is a condition of disbursement; and (ii) recruit the
training advisor and the training officer by April 30, 1988; and (b)
GNAG/GROTRAC making adequate arrangements to ensure that agreed numbers
of trainees are made available, in a timely manner, to attend
pre-arranged seminars and training courses.
SOURCE: IDA, GNAG, GROTRAC, March 1987
AF4IN
October 1987



- 113 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Cost of a Four-Year Training Program
Cost Estimates (Approx)
(in US$ Equivalent)
($1 = ¢ 160)
Description                           Local           Foreign
.   Training of Mechanics, Garage Owners and
Drivers at Technical Training Centers
(KTI, ATTC, NVTI)
1. KTI (Kumasi)
a) Training Equipment and Materials
i) Workshop equipment
ii) Mechanical tools
iii) Audio visual training aids                                    40,000
b) Tuition Fee & Miscellaneous Costs - Mechanics (M)
i) 60 M x year plus 40 x summer session
totaling 400 M x 4 years, at 03,500
x M x 3-month course                                           9,000
ii) One meal-a-day incentive, ¢ 150 x M
x day (75 days/course) x 400 M                                29,000
c) Instructors
i) Three instructors (diesel, petrol,
auto-elect.), each at ¢18,000 x months x 48 months            17,000
ii) Bonus x 3 instructors x 3 month
(summer session July/Sept.) ¢ 100 x
day x 360 days                                                 1,000
d) Partial Training of Garage Owners (GO) 2/
i) 50 GO x year x 3 years x 150 GO at
¢3,500 x GO x  6 weeks                                         4,000
ii) 3 Instructors and support staff                                4,000
e) Transportation
i) Two buses to transport trainees
to/from training centers, each at
US$35,000                                                     70,000
f) Fuel
i) Fuel for two buses x 4 years                                  22,000
Sub total          196,000



- 114 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 6
Cost Estimates
Description                           Local             Foreign
US$1.00 = 0160
2. ATTC (Accra)
a) Training Equipment Materials
i) Workshop equipment
ii) Mechanical Tools
iii) Audio visual training aids                                     120,000
b) Tuition Fee & Miscellaneous Costs - Mechanics (M)
i) 200 M x year x 4 years = 800 M at /
3,500 x M x 3-month course                                     18,000
ii) One meal-a-day incentive, ¢150 x M
x day (75 days/course) x 800 M                                 57,000
c) Partial Training of Garage Owners (GO) 2
i) 50 GO x year x 3 years = 150 GO, at
03,500 x GO x  6 weeks                                          4,000
ii) 3 Instructors and support staff                                 3,000
d) Transportation
i) 2 buses to transport trainees to/from
training centers, each at US$35,000                             70,000
e) Fuel
i) Fuel for 2 buses x 4 years                                       22,000
Sub total          294,000



- 115 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 6
Cost Estimates
Description                           Local            Foreign
US$1.00 = 0160
3. NVTI (Accra/Kumasi)
a) Training Equipment & Materials
i) Workshop equipment
ii) Hand tools
iii) Audio visual training aids                                     59,000
b) Tuition Fees and Miscellaneous
Costs - Bus/Truck Drivers (D)
3/
i) 576 D x year x 4 years = 2,304 D   , at
02,000 x D x 2 week course (288 at
Accra and 288 at Kumasi)                                         29,000
c) Transportation
i) One truck (articulated) at US$50,000
ii) One truck (rigid) at US$50,000
iii) One used vehicle for NVTI's team, at US$10,000                110,000
d) Fuel
i) Fuel and maintenance for three vehicles x 4 years              12,000
Subtotal           210,000
4.      MDPI
- Management Seminars
Short seminars for 300 small garage owners
and 700 managers/administrative
staff of public/private bus/truck companies,
executive garage/bus/truck company
association, and selected KTI, ATTC, NVTI,
MDPI instructors. Development of effective
transport seminars (expatriate staff).
Sub total             124,000



- 116 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 6
Cost Estimates
Description                           Local             Foreign
US$ 1.00 = 0160
II. GCAA
a) Training (in-country or abroad) of
technicians:
i) 3 from Air Traffic Control Section
(ATC)
ii) 3 from Radio Engineering Section (RE)
iii) 3 from Communication Operation
Section (COM/OPS)                                             200,000
b) Strengthening of Training Schools
i) Rebuilding small ATC school
ii) Purchasing 2 mini-buses, spare parts for RE school
iii) T/A to upgrade COM/OPS school                                  94,000
Sub total             294,000



- 117 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment 2
Page 5 of 6
Cost Estimates
Description                           Local             Foreign
US$ 1.00 = q160
III. Technical Assistance
MTC
a) Training advisor for 24 m/m (18L, 6F)                            154,000
b) Short term T/A for up to 3 months,                                36,000
c) One vehicle for training advisor                                 20,000
d) Manpower and Training Needs Study                                88,000
Sub total          270,000
IV. Training Abroad (Fellowships)
(a) Fifteen MOTC staff for short courses/seminars
of about US$11,000 each'                                       165,000
(b) Int'l conferences, visits, etc.                                 32,000
(c) Special course at ILO Int'l Training Center, Turin
for MOTC training officer                                       15,000
Sub total            212,000
Total              1,600,000
Physical/Price Contingency (10%)                                            110,000
GRAND TOTAL        1,710,000
Rounded to US$1.7 million
Note:
1/ These are approximate; all amounts have been rounded to the nearest '000.
2/ Garage Owners (master mechanics) will be trained partly (60%) at KTI/ATTC and
partly (40%) at MDPI.
3/ NVTI has the capacity to upgrade up to 2,300 drivers during program; however,
only 800 may actually attend upgrading courses during 1988-1992.



- 118 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment 2
Page 6 of 6
Summary of Training Costs
By Training Center/MTC and Category
Training Centers/MTC                                   Category
1. KTI         US$196,000        1. Training Equipment
and Materials              US$314,000
2. ATTC            294,000       2. Cost of Training
Courses/Seminars/Instructors 348,000
3. NVTI            210,000       3. Transportation                  210,000
4. MDPI            124,000       4. Fuel                             56,000
5. GCAA            294,000       5. Technical Assistance            260,000
6. MTC             482,000       6. Training Abroad                 412,000
Sub total    1,600,000                 Sub total               1,600,000
150,000
1,450,000
Physical/Price                     Physical/Price
Contingency        110,000         Contingency                      110,000
(10%)                              (10%)
GRAND TOTAL      1,710,000         GRAND TOTAL                    1,710,000
AF4IN
September 1987



- 119 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit Program for Road Transport
Project Components
1.        To advance the objectives of the transport sector credit program,
the Borrower (Government of Ghana) would make available to participating
private commercial banks the proceeds of the US$1.2 million (equivalent) IDA
credit component. This component would be channeled through the Bank of Ghana
(BOG) serving as the fiscal agent for the Borrower.  It is expected that the
Social Security Bank (SSB) would be the major participant in the project
financing (a) the procurement of tools, equipment and machinery for the small
wayside garages and workshops in Kumasi and Accra and the possible creation or
improvement of machine shop and other automotive support facilities if such
projects should emerge as a result of credit availability; and (b) a portion
of the initial investments to be made by the Progressive Transport Owners
Association in the freight terminal complex to be constructed in Kumasi. The
SSB would also help finance the production of intermediate technology vehicles
should this project be financially viable after its demonstration phase
financed separately. The SSB would also help to finance a portion of a motor
vehicle parts rehabilitation project that the Accra Machine Shop will
undertake upon completion of the appraisal if the financial and economic
returns for the project appear to be favorable, as well as other viable
projects.
2.        Uses of IDA Funds.  The Association's resources would be used by the
participating financial intermediaries (PFI) to finance up to 90% of the total
cost of expansion projects and 60% of the total cost of new projects,
calculated after all project financing. The PFI could finance the procurement
of tools, machinery and equipment (including the costs of shipment, installa-
tion and necessary technical assistance) as well as the associated permanent
working capital required to expand or initiate the planned production or
services.
3.        The credit program is designed to support the following projects.
(a) in the Suami Magazine, Kumasi and the motor vehicle repair centers
of Accra, the procurement of tools, machinery, equipment and other
parts and raw materials for an estimated 200 to 400 small garages,
blacksmiths, body shops, welders, carpenters and the other trades
that service repair and maintenance needs of the road transport
sector and  perform  related  functions  for  agricultural  vehicles,
etc.;
(b) a motor vehicle parts rehabilitation project that would help to
finance the equipment and the materials needed to rebuild automotive
parts using a cold weld technology to rebuild crankshafts, motors
and a variety of other automotive parts; the Accra Machine Shop has
agreed to undertake this project as an expansion of its current
automotive parts rehabilitation; the project is expected to reduce
foreign exchange requirements for automotive part replacements;



- 120 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 4
(c) a portion of the costs of the development of a modern truck terminal
facility in Kumasi, including inter alia, communications equipment,
forklift trucks, yard lights and security equipment and truck
scales; the Progressive Transport Owners Association as project
sponsor would finance mainly the local cost component including
warehouses and other structures and roads and civil works; it is
expected to be a multi-stage multi-year project, designed to improve
the overall efficiency of road and rail haulage from and into the
central zone of Ghana;
(d) the costs of production and marketing of non-traditional transport
vehicles designed by the Intermediate Technology Center in England
and perfected by the TTC in Ghana; the non-traditional transport
vehicles are inter alia: expected to replace the heavy burden of
head loading among farm women, ease the movement of small-load
haulage in urban centers and provide flexible, affordable transport
for rural workers and their small cargoes; financing would depend
upon the successful outcome of market testing which would be de-
signed to measure the commercial prospects for the non-traditional
vehicles; the Association would by a grant support the (i) detailed
design and fabrication of several hundred sample vehicles;
(ii) their distribution for market testing; and finally (iii) the
costs of administration of the test markets and the survey research;
in the likely event that one or more of the vehicles are successful-
ly market tested and a private sponsor can be identified that would
enter into commercial production, then the SSB would be prepared to
finance a portion of the equipment and working capital requirements
of this project; and
(e) other viable pilot projects related to road transport industry in
the private sector, acceptable to SSB and IDA; these may include a
project for manufacturing vehicle license plates.
4.        Financial Plan.   On the assumption that all of the subprojects
mentioned above are financed in line with expectations that the costs of the
above-mentioned projects could be about US$2.7 m (equivalent) of which the
Association would finance about US$1.7 m.  The onlending portion, excluding
grants, will be about US$1.40 m.  Participants and financial intermediaries
would be expected to finance 32% and 4%, respectively, of total project costs.
(See the Project Cost Table I which follows.)  Under the program to assist
small artisans and wayside garages, it is estimated that the SSB would finance
about 200-400 small projects averaging between US$1,500 to US$3,000.  Should
all of the financial components not advance as planned, then it is expected
that the small wayside garages, workshop and machine shop component of the
project could be expanded and could absorb the uncommitted balance of the
credit components  (para 9).  The allotations of credit by SSB will follow
distribution shown in Table I, unless otherwise agreed with IDA.



- 121 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 3 of 4
TABLE I. The Credit Component
Total        Commercial Bank Credit
Credit Lines                    Project Costs       IDA          BANK     Project Sponsor
1. Small Garages, Workshops & Machine Shops      850,000        630,000      20,000        200,000
2. Parts Rehabilitation & Other Projects        670,000         370,000      20,000        270,000
3. Road Transport Terminal                       600,000        260,000 /    40,000        300,000
4. Intermediate Vehicles                         620,000        480,000 -    25,000        115,000
Total                                       2,740,000      1,740,000     105,000        885,000
/a This includes a Government grant from IDA credit of US$330,000 for this project to procure
machinery, equipment and engineering for the design and model vehicle construction phases; of the
remaining, US$100,000 is for onlending to commercial producers after the pilot phase and US$50,000
to existing bicycle manufacturers/assemblers of bicycles for rehabilitation/expansion. The total
credit component is therefore US$1,410,000.
TABLE II. Associated Technical Assistance Component
(As Government grant from IDA funds)
1. Parts Reclamation                             10,000
2. Road Transport Terminal                      60,000
3.  SSB Assistance Program                      160,000
Total TA                                    230,000
5.         Fiscal  Agency.   The  Bank  of  Ghana  (BOG)  would  operate  a special
facility that would make loans to PFI financing eligible subloans under the
transport project's  credit  component.   Loans  to the PFI would be made on a
fixed amortization schedule to be repaid over a period of twelve years with
five years of grace.   The BOG would lend at its prevailing flexible lending
rate, currently 23.5%. Where foreign exchange is required by the borrower to
import machinery, tools, equipment or spare parts and materials, the BOG would
make foreign exchange available to the PFI at the prevailing foreign exchange
auction price. 1/
6.         Terms  and  Conditions  of  Lending.   The  terms  of  each  individual
subloan would be determined by its financial/cash flow requirements. Maximum
loan term for any sub-loan would be six years with three years of grace.   In
exceptional cases, up to eight years could be granted with Association approv-
al.   It is expected  that  the  small average project would be  repaid within
three years with one year of grace.   PFI would onlend IDA resources at the
flexible commercial bank lending rate, currently 26% (nominal). The Associa-
tion would periodically review the adequacy of the market rate of interest,
and the exchange rate and reach agreement with the Borrower on appropriate
conditions for onlending.
1/   The marginal auction market rate prevailing during the week in which the
(Footnote Continued)



- 122 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 4 of 4
7.        Financial Margins and Spreads.  Based upon the discount of 23.5% and
the expected average competitive rate of 26% the financial margin of 2.5% is
not adequate to cover the costs and risks associated with term lending.  To
compensate the SSB for part of the costs that could be incurred in managing
this program, at negotiations the Association would propose that the Govern-
ment finance a technical assistance grant to the SSB to help to improve its
accounting, financial information system (including credit and portfolio
management) and establish the data base needed to manage the IDA transport
credit component and report on the economic and social effects of the project.
It is expected that the grant which would be passed through the MTC would
equal US$160,000 which would be the equivalent of about 1.5 points of
additional spread over the life of the project.
8.        Operating  Policies  --  Lending  Regulations.   This  program would
operate within the SSB under standard lending regulations and practices in
line with a Policy Statement satisfactory to the Association. These would be
adopted by the SSB for purposes of this program.  During appraisal a draft
policy statement was discussed and would be finally agreed to during negotia-
tions. Approval of a satisfactory policy statement and lending procedures for
the project by SSB's Managing Director would be a condition of disbursement of
this credit component.
9.        Project Risks.   The major risk of the project is that the high
interest rates will discourage investments in new projects (the truck terminal
in Kumasi and the intermediate transport vehicles for which start-up financial
costs could be a significant percentage of total. To account for this risk of
non-commitment of portions of the US$1.4 m credit component, the credit
agreement would provide that with the agreement of the Association and the
Borrower credit component funds could be transferred to agreed upon general
uses of the Transport Sector Project.
AF4IN
October 1987
(Footnote Continued)
BOG received an eligible loan application for financing under the IDA
credit.



- 123 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit Lines to Road Transport
Onlending Policy and Proceedures
Road Transport Credit Program (TSCP)
1.        The statement of policies and procedures that is presented
below has been prepared to guide the administration and operations of
the Transport Sector Credit Program to which the World Bank and the
Social Security Bank, (SSB) have contributed. This statement is a part
of  the  Project  Agreement  between  the  International  Development
Association (IDA) and the SSB.  It has been authorized by the Managing
Director and confirmed by the Board of Directors of the SSB and
constitutes the basis for the operation of this program.
2.        Objectives of the Transport Sector Credit Program: The purpose
of this program is to make productive loans to improve the efficiency
and quality and strengthen the productive capacity of the key
sub-sectors that deal with transport the including: (a) wayside garages,
machine shops, body shops, welders, blacksmiths and other similar trades
and skills engaged in servicing the road transport sector, (b)
supporting the development of a model truck transport terminal facility
in Kumasi, (c) supporting the development of a model automotive parts
rehabilitation facility in Accra, (d) supporting the development of
non-traditional transport vehicles that advance urban and rural
development  and  lighten of  the burden  of women.   It  is a special
objective of this operation to aggressively promote the credit program
among smaller artisan enterprises to ensure their active participation
in the benefits of the credit facility.
3.        To achieve these objectives the SSB would provide the program
promotion, technical advisory and credit facilities in selected branch
banks in Accra and Kumasi which would be designated to administer the
credit program.   To initially finance the program IDA would provide
US$1.3 million.   The SSB may provide such other resources as may be
required to complete the financing of individual subproject.
4.        Uses of resources: It is expected that the funds provided by
IDA and the SSB and others would be utilised initially to finance the
following priority projects: (a) freight terminal development in Kumasi
(b) parts rehabilitation project in Accra, (c) machine shops, wayside
garages, artisan and workshops in Kumasi and Accra and finally (d)
possible financing of the production of non-traditional transport
vehicles, (e) other pilot projects such as equipment for licence plate
manufacturing.
5.        Limits  to  Lending:  Regarding  loans  to  wayside  garages,
artisans and workshops projects the maximum loan range would be the
equivalent in cedis of US$20,000. Regarding loans to machine shops and



- 124 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 2 of 3
parts rehabilitation the maximum loan size would be the equivalent of
US$200,000.   The  program  to  finance  the  freight  terminal would  be
limited to foreign exchange costs of the project but not to exceed the
equivalent of US$310,000 without the specific approval of the
Association and SSB.
6.        Eligible Borrowers: Borrowers would be any legally established
credit worthy person or organisation who operates or intends to operate
an enterprise engaged in an activity that is consistent with the
objectives  of  the  loan.   The  project  finances  new  or  existing
enterprises.
7. Lending Regulations:
7.01      What may be financed: The program will finance the domestic or
foreign procurement of tools, machinery and equivalent that are shown to
be necessary to the succesfful conclusion of a project.   The program
will also finance associated requirements for permanent working capital
in the form of raw materials and spare parts. Recovery trucks (not more
than 2) may be financed under the program if such projects are well
prepared and would be proposed as a cooperative effort among regional
members  of  the  GHAG.   Under  such  programs  the  borrowers  would  be
individually and jointly responsible for loan repayment.  Disbursement
may be for new or for used tools, machinery and equipment.  However,
procurement of used materials and equipment would be financed only if
the vendor can provide adequate enforcable guarantees assurances that
the equipment will perform as waranted.
7.02      Financing limits: The program would be prepared to finance up
to 90% of expansion projects and 60% of new projects.   In no event
should the debt to equity ratio of the borrower exceed 1 to 1.5,
calculated after project financing.  In rare cases, exception from this
rule might be sought from the Managing Director of SSB.
7.03      Loan Conditions:  The project would finance medium and long
term loans for qualified enterprises and individuals on standard
commercial  banking  terms  and  flexible  conditions.   Adquate  real
guarantees and/or personal guarantees would be normal condition of each
loan.
7.04      Loan Terms: The maximum term for any loan would be 6 years
with  up  to  2 years  of  grace with  respect  only  to principle.   In
exceptional cases up to 8 years would be granted.  This would require
the approval of the Managing Director and IDA's concurrence.   It is
expected that the average project could be repaid in about 36 months
with one year of grace with respect to principal.
8.        Applications  for subloans:  Beneficiaries would present loan
applications to appropriate branch offices in a format and with
financial and other information that would be considered as appropriate
to the  size  and  complexity of  the proposed  subloan.   Authority  to
approve (or disapprove) small loans of up to US$7,500 (equivalent in



- 125 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 3 of 3
cedis) would be granted to participating branches based upon procedures
that would ensure both adequate professional review of the loan
application and that small loans are processed within three working
weeks  from the date of the receipt by  SSB of a satisfactory  loan
application.
9.        Supervision and Technical Assistance:  Supervision files will
be maintained at each SSB branch that participate in the program.  A
record of supervision visits and results will be placed into the file
for each loan granted under the TSCP. An initial supervision visit will
be conducted by an SSB official to ensure that the funds disbursed had
been applied to the purposes intended, that the project is proceeding as
planned, and that loan repayment will proceed on the approved scheduled.
10.       If problems are identified during supervision then SSB staff
would be expected to submit the results of its reports to the branch
manager, with recommendations for action.  To the extent feasible the
SSB officer would prescribe assistance, calling upon the ITTU or other
agencies to assist small and medium enterprise to deal with their
problems.  Follow-up supervision reports would be filed at least every
12 months for every active loan in the TSCP program.
11.       Promotion: To ensure that the program has the widest possible
participation, especially among the very smallest enterprise each branch
in the TSCP operation will designate one officer to be responsible for
maintaining contact with the transport service sector and promote the
program, resolve problems and respond to the changing needs of clients.
12.       Project Appraisal:  It will  be  the  responsibility  of  each
participating SSB branch office to appraise and pass on every loan
application amounting to less than the cedi equivalent of US$57,500.
The appraisal will pay special attention to the marketing assumptions,
the skill of management and the estimated dibursement and the SSB will
present to the Bank of Ghana a provisional application for a loan which
would be perfected by a final document which would fix the final loan
amount based upon the summation of cedi equivalent of foreign exchange
procurements in the BOG foreign exchange auctions.
13.       Information System:  To  provide  the  SSB  and  governmental
authorities and development institution with information on the economic
and social impacts of the credit line of data base will be maintained
for the project.  Applicants for the loans would provide data on the
type of enterprise, employment, size of enterprise (assets) and
location.   Estimates of incremental employment, sales or productivity
gains would be provided with  the  loan applicaiton.   The  SSB would
prepare periodic reports on the nature of loan operations and their
impacts.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 126 -
ANNEX 3-9
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procedures for Processing of Loans
Transport Sector Credit Program
Introduction
1.        This procedures statement is designed to guide Social Security
Bank staff that are receiving, appraising, supervising or otherwise
processing loans financed under the Transport Sector Credit Program
(TSCP). This statement should be used in conjunction with the Statement
of Policy for the TSCP. The Policy statement cover most issues affect-
ing the-eligibility of borrowers of the projects that they may present
for financing.
2.   Appraisal  of Application  for Loans:  Application  Forms will be
submitted on SSB standard application form:  SSB-PD.   SSE01 for loan
applications for less than US$7,500 equivalent.  Application for loans
over that amount would use standard form SSB-PD.01 in line with banking
procedures to determine the following:
(a) The credit worthiness of the enterprise and key individuals
based upon their past and present performance as creditors.
(b) The financial solvency of the enterprise and its capacity to
contract additional debt.
(c) The status of the major assets of the firm and the amounts
available to act as secured guarantees.
(d) Outstanding loans (tax) or other obligations or contingent
liabilities that could arise from on-going legal actions
against the enterprise or any individuals.
(e) Management of the enterprises - the adequacy of the business
and technical skills of the entrepreneur or managers of the
enterprise.  Their ability to handle their current operations
adequately and to manage an expanded enterprise. Determination
of its training or technical assistance needs.
(f) Financial returns of the enterprise will be analized to
determine the general profitability of the entreprise in its
current setting.  A sensitivity analysis will be carried out
on key assumptions under varied conditions to determine
profitability.
(g) Marketing - The process will include the estimate of demand of
the expanded project to determine the marketability of the



- 127 -
ANNEX 3-9
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
company's products as well as the evaluation of adequate
marketing strategies.
3.        Standard Procedures for Processing Small Loans (Loans that are
not larger than US$7,500 equivalent in cedis):
3.1 Applicant is received at branch by receptionist who would
provide appropriate forms and information and/or refer appli-
cant to credit officer(s) that handle Transport Sector Credit
Project (TSCP) (see Project File for Application Form).
3.2 Applicant would be advised as to data requirements, referred
to ITTU as may be required to ensure that technical aspects of
project are well prepared and procurement discussions are
acceptable.
3.3 Application is received and recorded by receptionist and pass
forward to the TSCP officer who would review and analyze the
technical marketing and financial aspects of the application
and pass forward with approval or disapproval recommendations
to the office of the branch manager for credit review and
final disposition.
3.4 It would be the objective of the program to complete process-
ing of most unexceptional small applications within 5 working
days.  A Committee of Branch Managers could approve Loans of
less than US$7,500.00 in line with SSB Credit approval
procedures.
3.5 Following registration of guarantees and fulfillment of all
legal requirements the branch manager would notify the Head
Office of the provisional credit approval granted, and remit
the necessary documents for disbursement by the Bank of Ghana
(BOG) including a summary of project application. It would be
the objective of the program for the SSB to have submitted the
application to the BOG for disbursement within 5 days or to
notify within that period the Branch Manager of the reasons
for delay.
3.6 All loan applications that are intended to finance direct
imports of foreign merchandise will be provisionally denomi-
nated in US dollars with the final amount of the loan fixed in
cedis upon the date the loan is presented to the BOG depending
upon the auction rate of exchange then prevailing.
3.7 The Division responsible for overall project administration
and appraisal and technical approval of projects would receive
copies of all loan approvals from the branches and maintain
central information system regarding the overall project.
They would also assume responsibility for administration of
the World Bank for disbursement into the Special Project
Account.



- 128 -
ANNEX 3-9
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
4.        Standard Procedures for Processing Larger Loans (Loans that
are more than US$7,500.00 equivalent in cedis).
4.1 Applicant is received at the branch by receptionist who would
provide appropriate forms and information.  Applicant is then
referred to the credit officer(s) who handles Transport Sector
Credit Projects (TSCP).
4.2 Applicant would be advised as to data requirement, referred to
ITTU as may be required to ensure that technical aspects of
project are well prepared and Procurement decisions are
acceptable.
4.3 The completed application is received and recorded by the
receptionist who passes it on to the TSCP credit officer for
review and analysis and recommendation to the Branch Manager.
It would be the objective of the program to complete the
processing of application within 15 working days.
4.4 The Branch Manager would forward the processed application to
the Finance Committee (FC) at the Head Officer for approval.
4.5 After the completion of legal documents, the SSB would apply
to the Bank of Ghana  for disbursements.   It would be  the
objective of the program for the SSB to have submitted dis-
bursement documents to the BOG within 5 working days after the
approval or to notify the Branch Manager reasons for the
delay.
4.6 All loan applications that are intended to finance direct
imports of foreign merchandise will be provisionally denomi-
nated in US dollars with the final amount of the loan fixed in
cedis depending upon the auction rate of exchange on the day
disbursement is requested from Bank of Ghana.
4.7 The Division responsible for overall project administration
and appraisal of projects at the SSB would maintain a central
data base on all the projects and send copies to the branches
concerned for monitoring purposes. They would also be respon-
sible for administration of the World Bank Statement of
Expenditure documents that would periodically be supplied to
the Bank of Ghana who would apply to the World Bank for
disbursement into the Special Project Dollar Account.
4.8 The Division would also furnish periodic status reports of the
projects to the Bank of Ghana. Such reports would be required
half yearly.
5.        Legal Documentation:  All loans granted under the TSCP will be
covered by the Bank's Standard Loan Agreement Form.   In cases where
tools, equipment and machinery are purchased with loan funds, a Deed of
Assignment will be signed on the Bank's standard-form.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 129 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pilot Program for Promoting Intermediate Transport
1. Background
This project is concerned with the demonstration and introduction of two
intermediate means of transport new to Ghana:
--   a single-wheeled, hand propelled, Small Farms Vehicle (SFV)
for use by rural households as a more efficient alternative to
head-loading to meet local movement needs particularly between
the farm and village; and
--   a two-wheeled  cycle  trailer  to increase the load carrying
capacity of bicycles, for use by rural households and for
goods delivery and collection in small towns.
Attachment 1 gives more information on the need for these vehicles in
Ghana.
Demonstration and introduction of the two types of vehicle will proceed
in parallel. The project aims to develop the use of vehicles which are
adapted to local conditions, and which can be produced using largely
local  resources.   Considerable  emphasis  is  therefore placed  in  the
project on adaptation of the technologies to suit local conditions, and
on local production  of the demonstration batches  of vehicles.   The
project is perceived as the first stage of a longer term initiative to
promote the wider use of intermediate means of transport in Ghana, and
some emphasis is therefore placed on the development of institutional
capability at both the planning and technical levels.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the project component are:
(i) to develop the local supply, and use by rural households,
of an efficient but low-cost small farms vehicle with a
load carrying capacity of 150 kg;
(ii) to develop the local supply of cycle trailers with a
carrying capacity of 200 kg, for use by rural households
and for urban goods delivery and collection, particularly
in Northern Ghana; and
(iii) to develop the institutional capability within Ghana to
undertake future projects on the introduction and promo-
tion of intermediate means of transport.



- 130 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 2 of 4
3. Project Outline
PHASE 1 (6 months duration):
(i)  adaptation of SFV and cycle trailer designs and produc-
tion technology to suit local conditions of use and
manufacture in Ghana; and
(ii)  procurement of materials and components for the manufac-
ture of demonstration batches.
PHASE 2 (18 months duration):
(i)  construction of demonstration batches of 250 of each type
of vehicle;
(ii)  distribution of SFVs to different parts of the country,
demonstration in villages and to institutions (interna-
tionally funded, government and NGO) operating locally in
rural areas;
(iii) continuing promotion, working with these institutions, of
the SFV and the establishment of a supply system to
respond to the demand generated;
(iv)  a  similar  process  of  distribution,  demonstration  and
promotion of the cycle trailer but concentrating on the
north of the country (where bicycles are most common) and
in flatter areas of the south, and including urban as
well as rural applications; and
(v)  monitoring of the transport impact of the vehicles, and
assessment of the need for credit provision to promote
their wider use.
PHASE 3 (12 months duration):
(i)  establishment of local manufacture and marketing of the
SFV in three locations in different parts of the country;
(ii)  establishment of local manufacture and marketing of the
cycle trailer in the north of Ghana, and in the coastal
plain; and
(iii) continued monitoring of transport impact.
(Local capability will be established during the project to provide
continuing assistance to additional local manufacturers.)
4. Project Inputs
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS (MTC)
--   overall coordination of the project component.



- 131 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 3 of 4
TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANCY CENTRE (TCC)
--   main executing agency, responsible for:
--   manufacture of demonstration batch of SFV's at Suame in
Kumasi, and of cycle trailers at Suame and/or in conjunc-
tion with,local bicycle industries in Tamale and Accra;
--   organization and execution of demonstration and promotion
programme, using its network of contacts, developed
through previous project activities, with local organiza-
tions in different parts of the country; and
--   provision of assistance and support to local manufactur-
ers in establishing production of the vehicles (it is
assumed that the "GRATIS" program, an out-growth of TCC's
activities, will become involved at this stage).
--   evaluation and reporting.
BUREAU OF INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT (BIRD)
--   assisting TCC in monitoring of and reporting on impact of the
project, under sub-contract with TCC.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (SHORT-TERM CONSULTANCIES)
--   expert advice on the adaptation of the SFV and cycle trailer
technologies to suit local conditions of production and use in
Ghana, on the detail specification of the designs, and on the
manufacturing processes and procedures to be used by I. T.
Transport, who prepared the project under contract with MOTC.
--   advice  on procedures  and mechanisms  for  demonstration  and
promotion of the vehicles, and for monitoring of transport
impact, in order to apply the experience from similar initia-
tives elsewhere to the project in Ghana; and
--   review, prior to providing assistance to local manufacturers,
of vehicle specifications, manufacturing processes and produc-
tion equipment requirements (by GRATIS, under sub-contract
with TCC).
5. Project Costs
A detailed estimate of project costs over the three-year period is given
in Attachment 2.
6. Nature of Project Benefits
As a pilot project, it is inappropriate to try to quantify the expected
return on the investment cost.  However, the use of a SFV or bicycle
trailer is expected to yield significant benefits in terms of:
(i) lower transport costs;
(ii) reduction in the total tWme spent on transport;



- 132 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page 4 of 4
(iii) increased farm output; and
(iv) provision of a cost-effective substitute for head-load-
ing, which is a burden generally borne by women and
children in Ghana's farm communities.
AF4IN
July 1987



- 133 -
ANNEX 3-10
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Small Farms Vehicle (SFV) and Cycle Trailer
SMALL FARMS VEHICLE (SFV)
Background and Need
1.        The movement of almost all crops and farm inputs between field
and village in Ghana is by headloading.   A significant proportion of
crop marketing and the collection of household requirements, such as
water  and  firewood,  is  also  by  headloading.   Headloading  is  slow
(maximum 5 km/h), of limited capacity (maximum 30 kg), and thus consumes
considerable human resources, in terms of time and effort, if household
requirements are met by this means of transport alone.  There is evi-
dence that reliance on headloading is a significant constraint on small
farm output in Ghana.   Since much headloading is along footpaths and
tracks remote from the motorable network, the prospects for substituting
conventional motor vehicles for human carriage are limited. The provi-
sion of improved forms of transport to meet small farm needs more
efficiently is constrained by the requirements that they should be cheap
to buy and operate yet robust enough to move easily over rough and often
narrow tracks. A single-wheeled, hand propelled vehicle fulfills these
requirements and, with a load carrying capacity of up to 150 kg, pro-
vides five times the transport capacity of headloading.
CYCLE TRAILER
Background and Need
2.        Bicycles are widely used for pesonal transport and to some
extent as load carriers in the nortern two-thirds of Ghana.  Bicycles
normally carry loads up to 50-75 kg. Heavier loads can be carried, but
only with great difficulty.   For load carrying, the bicycle provides
5-7.5 times the capacity of headloading, taking account of both speed
and payload.  The usefulness of a bicycle can be extended by use of a
two-wheeled cycle trailer which, hitched to a bicycle, increases its
load capacity to 200 kg, and the volume of goods that can be carried.
The trailer can quickly and easily be detached from the bicycle when not
required, thus retaining the utility of the bicycle for personal
transport.  Thus, the trailer extends the load carrying capacity of a
bicycle by a factor of 3-4 times. Such cycle trailers are not in use in
Ghana at present.
Note: Project File Document No. D05614 provides more details on the role
of intermediate traffic in Ghana.
AF4IN
July 1987



- 134 -                        ANNEX 3-10
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimate of Project Costs
The accompanying table defines the timing of expenditures over the
three-year period. Costs are estimated as follows:
1. Materials and Equipment for Demonstration Phase
(To be managed by TCC)
1.1 Materials for production of demonstration batches of vehicles:
SFV:            500 vehicles at US$50 each.
Cycle Trailer: 500 vehicles at US$70 each
Total           US$60,000
1.2 Minor items of equipment and tooling for production of demon-
stration batches of vehicles, including prototypes --
US$20,000.
1.3 Project vehicle (4-wheel drive) plus spare parts and ancillary
office equipment -- US$25,000.
Sub-total Item 1: US$70,000
2. Institution-Building
Sum of US$30,000 included for overseas training, study tours, etc. (TCC
clients, related staff; managed by TCC.)
3. Technical Assistance
3.1 Expert advice on adaptation and specification of the vehicle
technologies, and on manufacturing processes and procedures,
during  Phase 1.  (I.  T.  T.,  London,  who  prepared project
design.)
4 man-months consultancy at US$8,500/month -- US$34,000
3.2 Advice on and support to demonstration, promotion and monitor-
ing procedures during Phase 2.  (Ghana Regional Appropriate
Technology Industrial Service, GRATIS.)
6 man-months consultancy at US$2,000/month -- US$12,000
3.3 Technical review prior to commencing assistance to initiate
commercial production.
1 man-month consultancy at US$8,500/month
Sub-total Item 3: US$54,500



- 135-
ANNEX 3-10
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 4
4. Technology Consultancy Centre
4.1 Two technical staff members, plus associated overheads, for
three years US$4,800 per person per annum; Total = US$28,800.
Project management by TCC Director: 6 mm 2,000 = US$12,000
4.2 Local travel and local allowances
24,000 km/annum travel, at 25 USc/km running costs, for
3 years -- US$18,000
300 nights living allowance at locations in Ghana at
US$15/night -- US$4,500
Total US$22,500
4.3 Support costs for technician time, drivers, etc., estimated
at US$6,000
4.4  Support costs for VSO volunteer, at US$1,500 per annum for two
years -- US$3,000
(Note: This cost would be higher if UN volunteer, rather than
VSO, was used.)
4.5 Cost of producing demonstration batches of vehicles (excluding
materials):
SFV:                 500 vehicles at US$25 each
Cycle Trailers:      500 vehicles at US$40 each
Total:               US$32,500
4.6 Reporting
4 reports at US$500 each -- US$2,000
Sub-total Item 4 = US$90,550
5.  BIRD
5.1 Salary and overhead cost -- estimated at 20% of TCC cost --
US$8,000
5.2 Local travel and local allowances -- estimated at 50% of TCC
cost -- US$11,500
5.3 Reporting
4 reports at US$500 each -- US$2,000
Sub-total Item 5 = US$21,500



- 136 -                    ANNEX 3-10
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 4
6. MTC, Field Monitoring
6.1  Field Trips, Travel Costs
(12 trips/annum, 800 km per trip,
25  Sui per km, 3 years):    US$7,200
6.2  Overnight stay (180 days).  US$5,400
6.3  Miscellaneous expenses US$2,750
Total Item 6 = US$15,350
7. Materials and Equipment for Commercial Production Phase
7.1  Commercial production of the new vehicle types: US$100,000
(Excluding US$80,000 other costs).
7.2  Lines of Credit for existing bicycle manufacturers/assemblers:
US$50,000
Sub-total Item 7 = US$150,000
Summary:
Cost of Demonstration Project (Item 1 to 6) = US$330,000 (IDA)
Commercial Production Phase           (Item 7) =  US$150,000 (IDA)
TOTAL                        US$480,000 (IDA)
NOTES.
1.        TCC will be responsible for the demonstration phase including
monitoring of market response, and shall generally guide the commercial
production phase.   TCC will keep all project related accounts, other
than those spent by MTC.   The accounts  are subject  to audit by an
external auditor acceptable to IDA. MTC will release funds to TCC from
IDA Special Account on monthly basis and against special payments, and
TCC will present to MTC supporting documents on a 6-monthly basis.
2.        Demonstration phase payments will be treated as grants from
the Government.   Sale proceeds during this phase, which shall be not
less than the material costs, will be kept in a separate account by TCC
for use for its other projects in transfer of technology in transport
sector. TCC will submit Quarterly progress reports to MTC.
3.        The commercial production phase and credit to existing bicycle
units will be supported by sub-loans from Social Security Bank under
separate arrangements being made for Lines of Credit.  IDA will provide
to SSB, US$150,000 for such sub/loans; on-lending will be on commercial
terms.
4.        TCC will finalize with MTC and arrange to send to IDA before
negotiating  the  following:   (a) contract  form between MTC  and TCC;
(b) contract forms between TCC and GRATIS, and TCC and BIRD; and



- 137 -
ANNEX 3-10
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 4
(c) detailed work program and time table, and the monitoring program.
Items (a) and (b) are expected to be signed before credit effectiveness,
expected by March 15, 1988.
5.        MTC will appoint consultants  for guiding the design phase
before January 31, 1988, initially financed from the PPF advance.
AF4IN
July 1987



REPUBLIC OF BNMI
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PMJECT
Cost Estisatms
(US$ million equivalent)
Coeponents                                 Total                            198                           I999                         1990                          1,91                         199                           19,93
Duty &                       Duty I                        Duty I                       Dty &                         Duty& 6                       uty &                        Duty 4
Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign TDtal Local  Tax.s Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total
A.  Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
10 Road Maintenance Progras
(a) Periodic Maintenance
I. 914                                   9.77   6.90  40.83  57.50  3.91   2.76  16.33  23.00  4.89   3.45  20.42  29.75  0.99   0.69   4.06   5.75
2. 9FR                                   1.9 "   1.38   9.17  11.50  0.79   0.55   3.27   4.60  0.98   0.69   4.09   5.75  0.20   0.1    0.82   1.15
Subtotal (a)                     11.72   8.26  49.00  69.00  4.69   3.31  19.60  27.60  5.96   4.14  24.50  34.50  1.17   0.93   4.90   6.90
(hi Ematin. Maietuaace
I. lEA                                   3.80   1.20   5.00  10.00  I."0   0.60   2.50   5.00  1.90   0.60   2.50   5.00                                                                                                                                              c
2. Ft                                    0.76   0.24   1.00   2.90  0.38   0.12   0.50   1.00  0.38   0.12   0.50   1.00I
"htotal lh)                      4.56   1.44   6.00  12.00  2.28   0.72   3.00   6.00  2.291  0.72   3.00   6.00
Cc) Sumervisia of Nlaintmuace Pro,9rae,
and lated lestitatien-holdong
I. Proj.  Wg. (Mnit Ext.(36 eml          0.05   0.00   0.45   0.50  0.00   0.00   0.03   0.03  0.02   0.00   0.14   0.15  0.02   0.00   0.16   0.19  0.01   0.00   0.13   0.15
2. Stre.tt  ing GMN Supvision
1144 so lot. 148 -  epatr.cons.)   0.26   0.00   0.75   1.01  0.03   0.00   0.06   0.10  0.07   0.00   0.19   0.25  0.07   0.00   0.19   0.25  0.07   0.00   0.19   0.25  0.04   0.00   0.11   0.15
3. Omrv  ,Veila0.00   0.00   0.20   0.20  0.00   0.00   0.06   0.06  0.00   0.00   0.08   0.06  0.00   0.00   0.06   0.06
IER                              0.00   0.00   0.40    0.40  0.00   0.00   0.12   0.12  0.00   0.00   0.16   0.16  0.00   0.00   0.12   0.12
4.Fieidt, for   "M                      0.15   0.00   0.15   0.30  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01  0.03   0.00   0.03   0.06  0.04   0.00   0.04  _0.06  0.04   0.00   0.04  _0.08  0.0    0.00 0.0    0.00                              1x
Subtotal Ccl                      0.46   0.00   1.95   2.41  0.03   0.00   0.29   0.32  0.06   0.00   0.57   0.65  0.11   0.00   0.56   0.67  0.12   0.00   0.36   0.47  0.00   0.00   0.15   0.23  0.04   0.00   0.04   0.00                             -
0 I
(di Technical Assistance for
Institutional Strengthenin
I. NIS Spec. 124 m)(IUHI6IAI9RC          0.10   0.00   0.26   0.36  0.02   0.00   0.05   0.07  0.04   0.00   0.10   0.14  0.04   0.00   0.10   0.14
2. Planning, Contract Spn., I Training
(24 an loc./40 ma exp.cons.)-DI'R   0. 10  _0.00   0.55   0.65  0.01   0.00   0.03   0.03  0.03   0.00   0.14   0.16  0.03   0.00   0.17   0.20  0.03   0.00   0.17   0.20  0.01   0.00   0.06   0.07
Subtotal (d)                      0.20   0.00   0.91   1.01  0.03   0.00   0.00   0.10  0.07   0.00   0.24   0.31  0.07   0.00   0.27   0.34  0.03   0.00   0.17   0.20  0.01   0.00   0.06   0.07
Subtotal CiCoase Cost                    16.94   9.72  57.76  9.42  7.03   4.03  229    40    .9 48    03    14    .5 09                           .2 7.91  0.15   0.00   0.52   0.67  0.09   0.00   0.21   0.29  0.04   0.00   0.04   0.06
Physical Contingencies        1.14   0.68   3.95   5.67  0.49   0.28   1.59   2.35  0.57   0.34   1.93   2.94  0.09   0.06   0.34   0.48  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Price Contingencies           0.97   0.49   2.99   4.34  0.30   0.17   0.99   1.47  0.45   0.26   1.53   2.25  0.09   0.05   0.37   0.51  0.01   0.00   0.05   0.07  0.01   0.00   0.03   0.04  0.01   0.00   0.01   0.01
Total                      19.95  10.99  64.59  94.43  7.92   4.49  25.54  37.94  9.31   5.46  31.77  46.54  1.52   0.94   6.44   9.90  0.16   0.00   0.57   0.73  0,10   0.00   0,23   0.33  0.04   0.00   0.04   0,09



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPDRT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
CUS Million equivalent)
Components                                    Total                      -       1998                           1999                           1990                           1991                           1992                           1993
Duty &                         Duty &                         Duty &                         Duty &                         Duty &                         Duty &                          Duty &
Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Tines Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total
li0     Kumaui-Bol1tanya-Paga   Rd.  Rehab.   - - - - - -     -- -     - -    - -    - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - -          - --      - -    - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -        - - -    - -    - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -        - - -    - -
(a) Comp. of Ctai Sd Eag.0(60 he)    0.05   0.00   U.4U   0.45  0.02   0.UO    0.16   0.19  0.03   0.00   0.24   0.27
(AC Rehabilitation 1510 ke)                 9.60   4.20  30.00  42.90  U.34   0.17    1.20    1.71  2.15   1.05   7.50  10.70  2.59    1.26   9.00  12.94  2.67   1.30   9.30  13,27  0.96   0,42   3.00   4.29
Ic) Supervision                             0.30   0.00    1.70   2.00  0.01   0.00   0.07   0.09  0.07   0,00   0.37   0.44  0.07   0.00   0.41   0.49  0.08   0.00   0.43   0.50  0.06   0.00   0.34   0.40  0.02   0.00   0.09  _0.10
Subtotal  Cii):Base Cast                     9.95 4.2   3.10  45.25  0.39    0.17    1.43   1.97  2.25   1.05   8.11  11,41  2.65   1.26   9,41  13.32  2.74    1.30   1.73  13.77  0.92   0.42   3.34   4.69  0.02   0,00   0.09   0.10
Physical Contingencies          0.90   0.42   3.25   4.57  0.04   0.02   0.15   0.20  0.23   0.11   0.02   1.16  0.27   0.13   0.95    1.34  0.29    0.13   0.90    1.39  0,09   0.04   0.34   0.49   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01
Price Contingencies             0.76   0.35   2.72   3.94  0.02   0.01   0.06   0.09  0.13   0.06   0.45   0.64  0.10   0.09    0.63   0.90  0.30   0.14    1.05    1.49  0.14   0.06   0.50   0.71  0.00   0.00    0.02   0.02
Total                       10.61   4.97  39.09  53.66  0.43   0.19   1.64   2.26  2.60   1.21   9.39  13.20  3,10   1.47  10.99  15.56  3.31   1.57  11.76  16.65  1.15   0.53   4,19   5.96  0.02   0.00   0.11   0.13
(iii) Bridge Rehabilitation Program
a. Rehabilitation ( 20 Bridges C             1.19   0.66   4.30   6.15  0.12   0.07   0.43   0.61  0.49   0.26    1.72   2.46  0.49    0.26    1.72   2.46  0.12   0.07   0.43   0.61
h. Supervisiont                              0.12   0.00   0.30   0.42  0.01   0.00   0.03   0.04  0.05   0.00   0.12   0.17  0.05   0.00   0.12   0.17  0.01   0.00   0.03   0.04
c. Eng. design (Fatare Project)              0.10   0.00   0.30   0.40  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.05   0.00   0.13   0.20  0.05    0.00   0.15   0.20
Subtotal CiiiC:Base Cost                     1.41   0.66   4.90   6.97  0.13   0.07   0.46   0.66  0.57   0.26    1.99   2.93  0.57   0.26   1.9"    2.93  0.13   0.07   0.46   0.66
Physical Contingencies          0.17   0.09   0.59   0.94  0.02   0010  0.06   0.09  0.07   0.03   0.24   0.34  0.07   0.03   0.24   0.34  0.02   0.01l   0.06   0.09
Price Contingencies             0.09   0.04   0.32   0.6001   0.00    0.02   0.03  0.03   0.01   0.11   0.16  0.04   0.02   0.14   0.19  0.01   0.01   0.05   0.07
Total                      1.67   0.79   5.91   0.26  0.15   0.09    0.54   0.77  0.68    0.31   2.34   3.33  0.69   0.31    2.37   3.36  0.16   0.00   0.57   0.81
in. Fatare Project Prep. Stadies              0.10   0.00   0.40   0.50  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.01   0.0              0.04   0.05  0.03   0.00   0.10   0.13  0.03   0.00   0.10   0,13  0.04   0.00   0.14   0.19  0.01   0.00   0.02   0.03
2222  =22=22    -2z    7I=    zz    m; =                       2z=.===22--==z2                       22=2  2   2     -222222            =   =mm==-=..  m              z   2222222    2:222.. 2 2 222222222222222=:
Sabtotal Civ):Base Cost                      0.10   0.00   0.40   0.50  0.00   0.00   0.0    0.00  0.01   0.00   0.04   0.05  0.03   0.00   0.10   0.13  0.03   0.00   0.10   0.13  0.04   0.00   0.14   0.19  0.01   0.0                               0.02   0.03
Physical Contingencies          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Price Contingencies             0.01   0.00   0.04   0.05  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.02  0.00   0,00    0.00   0.06
Total                        0.11   0.00   0.44   0.55  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.01   0.00   0.04   0.05  0.03   0.00   0.11   0.13  0.03   0,00   0.11   0.14  0.04   0.00   0.16   0.20  0.11   0.00   0.02   0.03
222222222222222222  22:222.:  22-22-  22                         2222z  z233zz  ==a         2C ...222   2222232222   2222-22-222  222222 222222    222=z x  2= .2..2222   222222:222  22222=  -222:
Subtotal 0:1cme Cost                        27.40  14.58  95.16 137.14  7.53   4.27  24.95  36.65 11.12   6,17  39.45  55.75  4.61   2.35  17.22  24.18  3.04    1.37  10.91  15,22  1,04   0.42   3.69   5.15  0.06   0.00   0.14   0.2C
Physical Contingencies          2.21   1.19    7.69  11.08  0.54   0.31    1.79   2.63  0.07   0.49    2.99   4.33  0.42   0.22    1.53   2.16  0.29   0.14    1.04    1.47  0.09   0.04   0.34   0.49   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01
Price Contingencies             1.73   0.99   6.06   0.69  0.33   0.19    1.07   1.59  0.61   0.34   2.10   3.05  0.31   0.16   1.15   1.61  0.33   0.15    1.16   1.64  0.16   0.06   0.55   0.77  0.01   0.00   0.03   0. 04
Total A                                      31.35  16.65 109.91 156.91  9.40   4,76  27.71  40.97 12.59   6.99  43.54  63.12  5.33   2.72  19.90  27.96  3.66    1.65  13.01  19.32  1.29   0.53   4.59    6.39  0.07   0.00   0.18   0.25tti
9.  Railway Rehabilitation0I
(I) Rehab. of Central & Eastern Lines
(Track, signtalling & telecom.)          9.90    3.42  19.61  31.93  1.56   0.50    2.57   4.63   1.67   0,65   3.78   6.10  2,78    1.50   9,70  13.90  2.09   0,77   3.56   7.22
Subtotal CihBase Cost                        8.90    3.42  19.61  31.93  1.56   0.50   2.57   4.63  1.67   OuS5   3.70   6.10  2.79    1.50   0,70  13.90  2.09   0.77   3.56   7.22
Physical Contingencies          0.22   0.13   0.84   1.19  0.03   0.01   0.09   0.13  0.04   0.02   0.14   0.20  0.07   0.06   0.44   0.37  0.00    0.03   0,17   0,20
Price Contingencies             0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.0                    0.00  0.00   0,00   0.00   0,00
TotaLl                        9.12   3.55  20.45  33.12  1,59   0.51   2.66   4.76  1.71   0.60    3.92   6.31  2.95    1,56  10.14  14.55  2.97   0.00   3.73   7,50



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
(US  Million equivalent)
Components                                   Total              -              19G8                           1989                          1990                           1991                          1992                           1993
Duty I                        Duty I                         Duty &                        Duty &                         Duty &                        Duty &                         Duty &
Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total
(ii) Improving Overall Railway System
(a) Loco./Nagons-Nee Units L Re ab.    0.11    0.76   6.21    7.00  0.00   0.01    0.11   0.12  0.03   0.42   3.51    3.96  0.04   0.24   1.96   2.24  0.04   0.08   0.63   0.75
(b) Workshop Rehabilitation                 0.03   0.16    1.31    1.50  0.00   0.01    0.07   0.06  0.01   0.06   0.52   0.59  0.01   0.06   0.52   0.59  0.01   0.03   0,20   0.24
(c) T. A. for Mgmt. Supp., & Suprvsn.  0.27   0.00   2.11    2.38  0.05   0.00   0.33   0.30  0.00   :00-   0.63   0.71  0.00   0.00   0.63   0.71  0.06   0.00   0.52   0.50
(d) Training Program                       0.00   0.00    1.00   1.00  0.00   0.00   0.16   0.16  0.00   0.00   0.30   0.30  0.00   0.00   0.30   0.30  0.00   0.00   0.24   0.24
===:.=  =====  =::=:     =::  :  :   =====  :====  ===== m== ====  ===      = 2 =        :=  ====  =====  m== :=  ===== =====  ::r   == .=   ====
Subtotal (ii):Base Cost                     0.41   0.92  10.63  11.96  0.05   0.02   0.67   0.74  0.12   0.49   4.96   5.57  0.13   0.30   3.41   3.04  0.11   0.11    1.59   1.01
Physical Contingencies         0.03   0.00   0.53   0.56  0.00   0.00  ODS   0.05  0.01   0.00   0.17   0.18  0.01   0.00   0.20   0.21  0.01   0.00   0.11    0.12
Price Contingencies            0.03   0.05   0.68   0.76  0.00   0.00   0.03   0.03  0.01   0.02   0.26   0.29  0.01   0.02   0.22   0.25  0.01   0.01    0.17   0.19
Total                       0.47   0.97  11.04  13.28  0.05   0.02   0.75   0.02  0.14   0.51   5.39   6.04  0.15   0.32   3.83   4.30  0.13   0.12    1.87   2.12
=z-====  ==        zz====      -====:  =====   -=====z=z =====   =====   ===== =====- =:: ::::=:=====  =:::e  ===::=  ====: =====  =====  =====  =====                                                                 I
Subtotal B:Base Cost                        9.31    4.34  30.24  43.89  1.61    0.52   3.24   5.37  1.79   1.14   0.74  11.67  2.91    1.00  13.11  17.02  3.00   0.68    5.15   9.03
Physical Contingencies         0.25   0.13   1.37   1.75  0.03   0.06   0.14   0.10  0.05   0.02   0.31   0.38  0.00   0.06   0.64   0.78  0.09   0.03   0.20   0.40
Price Contingencies            0.03   0.05   0.60   0.76  0.00   0.00   0.03   0.03  0.01    0.02   0.26   0.29  0.01   0.02   0.22   0.25  0.01   0.01   0.17   0.19                                                                               °
===:;=  =====  =m====  =:==== ====   =====  .=====  ===== =2=   === =         ====   ==:= =====  ====   :z_   ===== ======  ==.===  =====  =====                                                                      I
Total 0                                      9.59   4.52  32.29  46.40  1.64   0.50   3.41   5.50  1.05   1.19   9.31   12.34  3.00   1.00  13.97  10.05  3.10   0.92   5.60   9.62
C. Support for Transport Sector Institutions
(il Strenqthen. of Ministry of Transoort
Ind Communications (MTC)
(C) 0Ih Studies for NTC (6 mm)             0.01   0.00   0.07   0.08  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.03  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.03  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.03
(b) Sector Policy and Project Studies
(TDP Staff and Consultants)(148 a
loc./14 so expatr. cons.)              0.03   0.00   0.40   0.43  0.01   0.00   0.13   0.14  0.01    0.00   0.13   0.14  0.01   0.00   0.14   0.15
(c) Technical Advisor (Proj. Implem.
antd Monitoring,MTC), cons.
36 -  and office supplies             0.10   0.00   0.30   0.40  0.03   0.00   0.10   0.13  0.03   0.00   0.10   0.13  0.03   0.00   0.10   0.14
(d) Office lmproveeents,Vehicles and Equip,
Supervision and Auditing  (MTCI        0.10   0.00   0.55   0.65  0.03   0.00   0.10   0.21  0.03   0.00   o.:0   0.21  0.03   0.00   o.i1    0.22
z=z=    ==z        =     :==   === =====  2=2  -  =:     ==  ===z  =====  =====  ===:. 2== ==              == =   =====                                                                                            oCw
Subtotal (i):Oase Cost                      0.24   0.00    1.32   1.56  0.00   0.00   0.44   0.51  0.08   0.00   0.44   0.51  0.00   0.00   0.45   0.53
Physical Contingencies   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Price Contingencies         0.01   0.00   0.07   0.08  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.02  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.03  0.00   0.00   0.03   0.03
Total                        0.25   0.00    1.39   1.64  0.00   0.00   0.45   0.54  0.08   0.00   0.46   0.54  0.09   0.00   0.48   0.56



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
1US Million eqoixalent)
Components                                     Total                              1988                            198                             1990                            1991                            1992                            1993
Duty &                          Duty &                          Duty &                         Doty &                          Duty &                          Duty &                          Duty 
Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  Taxes Foreign Total Local  TaxeIs Foreign Total
(0 ii)nagement Sup port to GCAA
(24mm expatrll2me loc.cons/off.eq  0.10   0.00    0.25   0.35  0.01   0.00    0.01   0.02  0.04   0.00   0,10   0.14  0,04   0.00   0.10   0.14  0.02   0,00   0,04   0.05
Sobtotul Q1ii~ase Cost                        0.10   0.00   0.25    0.35  0.01   0.00   0.01   0.02  0.0A    0,00   0.10    0.14  0,04   0.00   0.10   0.14  0.02   0,00   U.04   0.05
Physical Contingencies   0.00   0.00   0.00   0,00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Price Contingencies          0.01   0.00   0.02   0.02  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01
Total                        0.11   0,00   0.27   0.37  0.01   0.00   0.01   0.02  0.04   0.00   0.11   0.15  0,04   0.00   0.11   0.15  0.02   0.00   0.04   0.06
(iii) Road Safety laproxem.IMTC,MRHf(          0.20   0.07   0.02    1,10  0.01   0.00    0.04   0,06  0.03   0.01   0.12   0,17  0.04   0.01   0.17   0.22  0.04   0.01   0.17   0.22  0.04    0.01   0.17   0.22  0.04    0.01   0.17   0.22
Subtotal  (iiihofase Cost                     0.20   0.07    0.82    1.10  0.01   0.00   0.04   0,06  0.03   0.01   0.12   0.17  0,04   0.01   0,17   0.22  0.04   0.01   0.17   0.22  0.04   0.01    0,17   0.22  0.04   0.01   0.17   0.22 
Physical Contingencies  0.01   0.00   0.04   0.06  0.00   0.00    0,00   0.00  0,00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00   0,01   0.01  0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00    0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01
Price Contingencies         0.02   0,01   0.09    0.12  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00   0.01   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.02  0.01   0.00   0.02   0.03  0.01   0.00   0.03   0.04
Total                       0.23   0.00    0.96    1.20  0.01   0.00   0.03    0.06  0.03   0.01   0.14   0.18  0.04   0.02   0.10    0.25  0.05   0.02   0.19   0.25  0.05   0.02    0,20   0.26  0.05   0,02   0.21   0.27
(iv) Sector Wide Training Program
(Public and Private Sectors)
(a) Train. Advisor, Mopser Study - NTC
112 ma expatr. I 1 lo c. cons.)           0.10   0.00   0.20    0.30  0.02    0.00    DD 0.04 6O  0.04   0.00   0.00    0.12  0.04   0.00   0.08   0.12
(61 Training of mechaniics/drivers
(mainly to private sector)
through local train.institutes           0,32   0.00   0.32   0,64  0.03   0.00    0.03   0.06  0.00    0.00   0.00    0.16  0.00    0.00   0.08   0.16  0.06   0.00   0.06   0.13  CO06   0.00    0.06   0.13
c) Rgt. Training  (mainly priv. sect.
trasp. operators) through RDPI           0.08   0.00    0.09    0.17  0.00   0,00    0.00   0.00  0.02   0,00    0.03   0.05  0.02   0.00    0.03   0.05  0.03   0.00    0.04   0,07
Id) Train. Fellowships for MTC Staff   0.00   0.00   0.21   0.21  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.06   0.06  0.00   0.00   0.06   0.06  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
Ce) Training Fellowships and
Local Training  (for OCAA)               0.03   0.00   0.24    0.27  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.03  0.01   0.00   0.05   0.05  0.01   0.00   0.06   0.07  0.01   0.00   0.06   0.07  0.01   0.00   0.05   0.05
Subtotal )iv)iBase Cost                       0.53   0.00    1.06    1.59  0.06    0.00    0.10   0.15  0.15   0.00    0.30    0.45  0.15   0.00    0.31   0.46  0.10   0.00   0.24    0,35  0.07    0.00    0.11   0.18
Physical Contingencies           0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00   0,00   0.00   0,00  0,00   0.00    0.00   0.00
Price Contingencies              0.04    0.00   0.00    0.12  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.01  0.01    0.00   0.02    0.02  0.01   0.00    0.02   0.03  0.01   0.00   0.02   0.03  0.01    0.00    0.02    0.02                                                                  n0 o
Total                        0.57   0,00    1.14    1.71  0,06    0.00    0.10   0.16  0.16   0,00    0.31   0.47  0.16   0.00   0.33   0.49  0.11   0.00   0.27   0.38  0.00   0.00    0,13   0.21
Subtotal C:Base Cost                          1.07   0.07   3.46   4.60  0.15   0.00    0.59   0.74  0.20   0.01   0.96    1.27  0.21   0.01    1.02    1.35  0.16   0,01   0.45   0.62  0.11   0.01   0.28   0.40  0.04   0.01   0.17   0.22
Physical Contingencies           0.01    0.00   0.04    0.06  0.00    0.00    0,00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.01    0.01  0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00    0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00    0.01    0.01                                          -
Price Contingencies              0.00    0,01   0.25   0.34  0,01    0.00    0.02   0.03  0.02   0.00    0.05   0.06  0.02   0.00   0.06   0.08  0.02   0,00   0.04   0.06   0.02   =0.00   =0.04    0.06  0.01    0.00    0.03   0.04
Total C                                        1,16   0.08    3.75    4.99  0.16   0.00    0.61   0.77  0.32   0.01  AOl1   1.34  0.33   0.02    1.10    1.4S  0.18   0.02   0.50   0.69  0.12    0.02    0.33   0.47  0.05   0.02   0.21   0.27



REPUBLIC OF GHANA6
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
(M15 Million equivalent)
Components                                  Total                             URN8                          1989                          1990                          1991                          1992                          199
Dt&Duy&ut&DDuty &                                                                                                        ut  &Dty&Duty &
Local  Tanen~ ~    ~    ~ ty  Foreign Total Local Taseyxs Foreign Total Local Tae   ueg   oa  oalTtaxe&s Foreiign Total Local  uTtanes Foreign Total Local  Taxets Foreign Total Local  Taxis Foreign Total
B. Support to Private Sector Road Transsprt
Industry and Intermediate Transport
Ii0 Linns of Eredit to Private Sector
(a) Tools and Equipmet for mall
garage opeprators                   0.10   0.11   0.60   0.81  0.04   0.04   0.21   0.28  0.04   0.04   0.21   0.28  0.02   0.02   0.09   0.12  0.02   0.02   0.09   0.12
(b1) Parts reclum./other pilot proj.    0.20   0.08   0.35   0.63  0.04   0.02   0.07   0.13  0.10   0,04   0.18   0.32  0.06   0.02   0.11   0.19
Technical Assistauce for (hi           0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
(c) Itotr-modal freight terminal,
lot project               ~~0.25   0.08   0.25   0.58  0.08   0.02   0.08   0.19  0.08   0.02   0.08   0.19  0.09   0.03   0.09   0.20
1.cncl   ssac  for (c)                0.00   0.00   0.06   0.06  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.02  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.02  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.02
(d) Introduction sod promotion of
intermediate transport
I. Pilot Production aud Promotion         0.15   0.03   0.15   0.33  0.01   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.03   0.01   0.03   0.07  0.04   0.01   0.04   0.08  0.08   0.02   0.08   0.17  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
2. Lises of Er. for Comercial Prod.  0.13   0.02   0.08   0.23  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.04   0.01   0.03   0.08  0.04   0.01   0.03   0.08  0.04   0.01   0.03   0.08
Subtotal (d)                      0.29   0.05   0.23   0.56  0.01   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.03   0.01   0.03   0.07  0.04   0.01   0.04   0.08  0.12   0.02   0.00   0.24  0.04   0.01   0.03   0.08  0.04   0.01   0.03   0.08
(s) T.A. for SS8 for orgunxoing
Small-Scale Credit s                   0.10   0.00   0.15   0.25  0.00   0.00   0.01   0.01  0.02   0.00   0.03   0.06  0,02   0.00   0.04   0.06  0.02   0.00   0.03   0.05  0.02   0.00   0.02   0.04  0.01   0.00   0.02   0.03
I.     ...    ..z.    C    C.  am.    -  22=2==.=:..CC.. musfl -555       5              5z==M   CZ...  C-    -fl ..uu ....   ....:5.2... -: utsu:  suns    C ussr:  n-u:    C.:u    .....  C:.- ..
Subtotal iii:Bue Eost                      0.93   0.31   1.65   2.89  0.17   0.08   0.39   0.64  0.27   0.11   0.55   0.94  0.22   0.07   0.37   0.67  0.15   0.04   0.22   0,42  0.06   0.01   0.05   0.12  0.06   0.01   0.05   0.11
Physical Contingencies    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0,00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Price Contingencies          0.07   0.02   0.10   0.19  0.01   0.00   0.02   0.03  0.01   0.01   0.03   0,05  0.01   0.00   0.02   0.04  0.02   0.00   0.02   0.04  0.0    0.00   0.01   0.02  0.01   0.00   0.01   0.02
5t~su IC    u=::Z flsS arts:  5:,Min:   uuuuu                                      zz                  2z usuus as:::  -sun   a:=. .nu   .....  tutu: a 15-:  CCt-  C:                 ....ss....        u.
Total 0                                     1.00   0.3      17       .8017   0.08   0.41   0.67  0.29   0.1    0.58   0.98  0.23   0.08   0.40   0.71  0.17   004   0.25   0.46  0.07   00                         ,6 01          .7 00          .5 01
E. Support to National Planining Comm.
ii  Technical Aksintance, Office! Eqpt  0.28   0.00   0.64   0.92  0.01   0.00   0.03   0.05  0.03   0.00   0.06   0. 09  0.08   0.00   0.19   0.28  0.00   0.00   0.19   0.29  0.07   0.00   0.16   0.23
u:-nu.uu2  u::us  uCZs  .su=ru            &=== suu::        --==zz    zz   .....2                   uz    zz    zz  ==   ...: s:  :u   ...u uf    -u- C-    --     -z   C=
Subtotal liliane Coot                      0.28   0.00   0.64   0.92  0.01   0.00   0.03   0.05  0.03   0.00   0.06   0. 09  0.08   0.00   0.19   0.28  0.08   0.00   0.19   0.28  0.07   0.00   0.16   0.23
Physical Contingencies    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0,00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Price Contingencies          0.02   0.00   0.06   0.08  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.01   0.00   0.01   0.02  0.01   0.00   0.02   0.03  0.01   0.00   0.02   0.03
====  =.==zzxz  ===.====  22===zzz  =Z======  z==Z=zzz  =.====-=  =====-==  ZZZ2-zz=C.=  zz=z==- = =-=-                   22-.   C=- =--
Total E                                     0.30   0.00   0.70   1.00  0.01   0.00   0.03   0.05  0.03   0.00   0.07   0.10  0.09   0.00   0.20   0.29  0.09   0.00   0.21   0.30  0.08   0.00   0.18   0.26
F.  Paymet PPF Advance
iiiPamet                                   .0    0.0       .4     1400.0        000     1.0      .4
B) ayse    s                           0.00   0.00   1.40   1.40  0.00   0.00   1.40   1.40
Total Bane Cost                  38.99  19.30 132.55 190.84  9.47   4.87  30.50  44.84 13.51   7,44  48.77  69.71  0.13   4.24  31.92  44.29  6.44   2.30  16.82  25.56  1.28   0.44   4.17   5.90  0.15   0.02   0.35   0.53                                        11
Total Physical Contingencies   2.47   1.31   9.10  12K0  0.57   0.37   1.93   2.82  0.92   0.50   3.30   4.72  0,50   0.28   2.18   2.96  0.38   0.17   1.32   1.88  0.10   0.04   0.35   0.49  0.00   0.00   0.02   0.02
Total Price Contingencies          1.93   0.97   7.15  10.06  0.35   0.19   1.18   1.72  0.67   0,37   2.51   3.55  0,44   0.18   1.66   2.28  0.46   0.16   1.61   2.24  0.26   0.07   0.78    1.10  0.03   0.00   0.07   0.10
:usu zuus_   .u:  ::-   u::s::u  usuu  us:::u  sus:=                                                                        u z=z=z===C====   =.==Zc     =s..=Z   2=2   C=               cx...
GRAND TOTAL            4.40  21.59 148.81 213.79 10.40   5.43  33.61  49.30 15.10   8.30  54.58  77.90  9.07   4.70  35.76  49.53  7.29   2.63  19.76  29.67  1.63   0.55   5.30   7.49  0.18   0.03   0.44   0.65                                
AF4IN
October 1987



0>--'~~~                                                                                                            T;_  rr                
a
-.   --:           -x.~~~~~~~~~~~&~~>z~~~~          .     a  -2   Z               9-1 r
'0  -  ~ ~~~~~~~~41.-a-t                          - - - - - -a                                   -, - E; 
I                           -   -                                      - 
aW
- -  -g -                    -    - - -
-  ---:   --       --
a:  a     ..:::±~~~~~~~~~~82=                 tat:nz
if:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                          :
cC                                                                                               :r:~~~~~~  .;:uiI ZVZ
-------  -----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
n646~~~~~~~~* i.'t
-- ----  -----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
-- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - -   - - - - -- - -   - - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - -   - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - - - -
PIY
-- -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- -- - -- - -- -- - - - - -- -        - - - -   - -   -     - -- - -     -- - - - - - - -- -        - - -g 



- 144 -
ANNEX 3-113
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Figure 4: leplementation Schedule for Periodic Maintenance (1988-89) of Trunk Roaids
1987   1    1988      1989   1    1990   1    1991   1    1992   1
Jan - Dec I Jan - Dec   Jan - Dec 1 Jan - Dec   Jan - Dec 1 Jan - Dec 1
Project Components                 1I11  I              I           i      1   111I 
=  =: = =:::: :  s:: :::   ,----- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Road Rehabilitation and Maintendnce                                 l                                                I
- Periodic maintenance Phase I                      DD AAA EEEEEEEE            I
- Periodic maintenance Phase II                  CCCC DDDD BABAB EEEEEEEEEEEEEE
Supervision of Maintenance & Instit. Bldg.!                                      i
- P.H. U.                                  EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
- Supervision (BHA, DFR)                  i            CCCCCC EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE                               I
Tech. Assist. for lnctitut. Strengthng.   I             !CCCCCC EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
Kumasi-Bolgatinga Rd.                                   INNNNN BABABA EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEI
- Supervision                                                CCCCCC EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEI
I ~  ~      ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~      ~    ~~~~ ,  I   I
Bridge Rehabilitation                                NNN BABABA EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
- Supervision                             i             CCCCCC EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE             I
Studies for Future projects                                         ;CCCCCC EEEEE            I
I           I                        I                                    I
Technical Assistance for MTC                            ICCCCCC EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE            i
I                 I            ,                 I            I
Support to 6CAA                                                CCCCCC EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
Roaid Safety lprovements                               ICCCCCC EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEI
Sector wide Training                       i
- Advisors                                          CCCCCC   EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE                          I
- Train Mechanics                                                TRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRI
- Management Training                                  I         TRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRI
- Felloships MTC                                       I     TRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRT             I
- Felloships 6CAA                                             TRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTRTR
*           ,           ,            I           I            I     
Support to Private Transportation Industry! 
- Credit Lines                                                   CLCLCLCLCLCLCLCLCLCLCLCLCLI
- Intersediate Transportation                                 SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS1            '
Support to National Planning Comeission                        CCCCCC EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
I           I           ,            I           ,      
KEY
A  z Contract adwrd                          CL   Credit lines        N    Detailed engineering
BA a Bidding and award                       D  z Design              S    Support
C  : Consultants appointeents                E  * Execution           TR * Training



REPUBLIC OF 6HANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Plan of Railway Component
1987                        IYBS                       1989                        199                         1991 
1. Board Presentation                                               i
2. Effectiveness 
3. Bidding Phase
4. Contracting Phase
5. Track Works 
a. E. Line-  CTR (60 kg)
b. E. Line--TSR(196 km1                                                                                                                                                                        Ii-
c. C. Line-  CTR (52 kin)
d. C. Line --TSR (131 kin)g
6. Signalling and Telecommunications:                                                                                                                   i 
a. E. Line
b. C. Line
7. Locomotive SupplyI
B. Wagons
a. Supply of new wagons                                                                     I 
b. Rehabilitation                                                                                                                         i 
9. Workshop Rehabilitation                                                                                                                                                                    cichz
10. Technical Assistance                                                                                          L-oA)
I    CI
11. Training                                                                        .....I.........................   .....
--  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - -- - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - --  - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - -- -  - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  -
Note:  CTR:  Complete Track Renewal
--- TSR:  Through Sleeper Renewal                                                                                                                                               Project Completion
AF4IN
October  1987



- 146 -
ANNEX 3-14
REPUBLIC OP GHANA
IRAINSPCA  REHl\ILITAT101 PiOJECT
Estiomated Disbursant Schedule
Date of                           Cusulativn           Cumaulative         Cuulative
End of       Disbur,eentu        Dhbur.ents           Disbursents         Disbur,eents
guarter      (USS billionl        (US$ .i Il 2mo            I               (Profilel
30-Ju0-U           3.87                3.87                    61                  8%
FYN
30-Sep-88          2.87                4.73                   112
31-b.c-8O         10.l4               17.37                  29S
31-Mar-89         5.24                22.61                  3S%
'o-Jua-99          5.27               27. 7                   44%                 32%
FY90
30-Sp-89           3. BO              31.48                  531
31-Dec-89          9.97               41.I5                  b91
31-Mar-90          3.42               45.07                  -5l
30-Jun-90          3.53               46.4v                   51%                 51,
Ff9l
30-Sep-90          1.92               50. 52                 84%
31-Dec-90          1.98               52.50                  8S1
S3-Mlar-91         1.19              53.                     8S9
30-Jun-91          1.13               54.82                   91%                 67;
FY92
30-Sen-91          1.11               55.93                  952
31-Dec-91          0.90 5.82                                 952
S3-Mar-92         0.41                57. 43                 941
30-Jun-92          0.0               58.04                   972                 B0%
FY93
30-Sep-92          0.60               58.64                   9S%
31-ec-92           0.53               59.17                   S92
31-Nar-93          0.24               59.41                  99%
30-Jue-93          0.24               59. 5                  99%                  90%
FY94
30-Sep-93          0.24               5S.9S                  100;
31-Dec-93          0.11               40.00                  100
31-mar-94
30-Jun-94                                                                         981
Fv95
30-Sep-94
30-kc-94
31-Mar-95
30-Jun-95                                                                        100%
Estiated 1LA Disburs,eents CUSS *illiones
FYI8  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94
Annual                    3.87 24.01 20.72  4.22  3.21  1.62  0.35
Cueeulatira               3.87 27.87 48. 0 54.82 58.04 O57     60.00
AF4IN
JULY 1987



- 147 -
ANNEX 3-14
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                        Attachment 1
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PRO.TECT
Profile v. Eatirated Disbursements
4 0-                /  ,,<
00
c~~~~~~~
EX
.3o-          , 
i4IN
1
4  2020
E
10    /
1988      1989       1990       1991      1992       1993       1994      1995
0   Profile                 Estim-ate
AF4IN
July 1987



- 148 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Evaluation of the Railway Component
General
1.        Attachments  2  to  4  provide  historical  and  projected  financial
projections and performance date pertaining to GRC's operations. Attachment 5
provides the current and proposed freight and passenger tariff structure.
GRC's financial objectives are broadly defined in the July 1982 decree that
amended the bylaws that put in place the new organization of CRC. It requires
GRC to pursue a long term objective of achieving financial self-sufficiency
that will permit phasing out Government subsidies. The present financial
evaluation assesses the impact that the proposed project and the fulfillment
of performance targets will have upon GRC's future financial situation.
Past and Present Financial Performance
2.        GRC  is undertaking  a Bank  financed  project  (Credit  1170-GH)  to
rehabilitate the Western Line (Annex 2-8). Its implementation started in 1980
and the project  is expected to be completed in late 1987.   GRCs financial
performance  during  the  period  1983  through  1986  was  poor.   (Unaudited
financial  statements  are  in  project  files  Document  No.  77).   This  was
primarily due  to:  (a)  delays  in the  implementation  of  the rehabilitation
project  for  the  Western  Line,  (b)  excessive  levels  of  manpower,  (c)
constraints  in the railway's  freedom  to adjust  rates  and  fares  (d) poor
management lending to unsatisfactory performance in equipment availability and
quality of service and (e) lack of financial resources for satisfactory
maintenance that led to the total deterioration of the Central and Eastern
Lines.   As a result GRC had heavy operational losses, on a steeply rising
trend, and drastic decline in market share.
I
3.        Measures to tackle the main problem areas taken since 1985 and still
being implemented as part of the TA program under Credit 1170 GH have began to
have a positive impact in GRC's financial prospects. These improvements have
been the result of better management, with better services, increases in the
volume of traffic and in rates and fares.
4.        In 1986, the financial situation of GRC was still not satisfactory;
however, it shows improvements for the first time in the last decade. The
results of the investments in the Western Line were beginning to bear fruits.
Operational losses in 1986 were in the order of 685 million cedis equivalent
to US$7.6 million,  lower  than  losses  of US$8.2 million  in  1985.  Overall
freight in the Western Line increased by 43% while the working ratio for all
the system was 221% compared with the working ratio of the Western Line of
only 157%.
5.        Notwithstanding  the  recent  improvements,  the  financial  situation
remains critical; due to excess staffing, the inability to increase tariff to
required levels in 1987, the large increase of salaries for all staff during
late 1985 far above the annual inflation rate, and the gross inadequacy of
bauxite freight rates and passengers tariffs. These issues will be addressed
during project implementation.   Furthermore, delays in the implementation of



- l49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
mechanized accounting of the cost system already designed by consultants has
not provided timely and accurate managerial information.
6.        The inimediate revision of Tariffs for Bauxite and passenger fares
proposed during appraisal has already been implemented (para 12(b). Agreement
was reached during negotiations (a) on a list of monitoring targets for annual
reviews between the Association and GRC.  During this project implementation
review, GRC and the Association would evaluate the progress made in attainment
of the targets and determine any corrective action that might be needed and
(b) to review the present tariff structure in 1989 following a market oriented
strategy that would take into account the real cost of providing the service,
and   that   the   cost   accounting   system   would   be   operational   by
September 30, 1988.
GRCs Financial Structure
7.        GRC's main revenues are income derived from freight, transportation
of parcels and luggage and passenger services. The contribution of freight to
the total operating revenues has decreased from 67% in 1987 to 61% in 1987
respectively, while that of parcels and luggage has been constant at about 10%
during the period 1986 and 1987.  Revenues from passengers has decreased from
23% in 1986 to an average of about 29% in 1987.  Freight mainly involves four
commodities cocoa, timber, bauxite and manganese . Tariffs were increased from
July  1985  to  January  1986  by  38,  35,  71  and  71  percent  respectively.
According to reliable cost estimates provided by consultants, present tariffs
for all commodities, with the exception of bauxite, cover their respective
variable costs and contribute a small portion to cover fixed costs. The
Government provides GRC with a subsidy to compensate for the short-fall due to
the railroad inability to increase bauxite and manganese tariffs to appro-
priate levels.   However in recent years the Government has provided only a
portion of the total amount required, in fact forcing the railroad to subsi-
dize the mining operations.i During the same period, passenger tariffs were
raised less than freight, only about 33%, and as in the case of bauxite they
do not cover variable costs.  The government has been reluctant to increase
fares due to the low quality of the service, numerous grave accidents and old
and uncomfortable passenger coaches. With the improvement taking place in the
Western Line it is expected that the Government will agree to the necessary
fare increases. Non operational income has been significant due to payments
from the government  in the  form of subsidies  to cover operational  costs.
Government equity contributions complement GRC's income as a source of funds.
8.        The complexity of operations as well as excessive number and low
productivity of personnel was accountable in 1986 for a high 70% of total
operational costs, which were allocated to personnel expenditures.   On the
other hand, the total amount expended in materials for routine maintenance of
only 17% of total operational costs is very low since it only comprises
purchases of local stocks. The failure of the government to fully and timely
disburse the required operational subsidy did not permit GRC to purchase
imported parts.  This circumstance, if it continues, would affect the proper
maintenance of the Railroad in deterrent of its operation.
9.        At the end of 1986, GRC has a long term debt of US$85 m.  Since the
government bears the exchange risk, GRC's debt service in current cedis is
low. The debt-equity ratio of only 1:99 is misleading; as GRC's new projects
get underway, its full impact is shown as GRC debt equity ratio increases to
43:57 m in 1995.   GRC has large net losses due to high depreciation cost



- 150 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
resulting from low utilization of the assets and over investment over the
years.
GRCs Overall Investment Program and Financing Plan
10.       GRC's  planned   investment   for  the  project   execution  period
(1988-1992) amounts to US$59.9 including capitalized interests and other minor
works, of which US$47.1 m represent the proposed project.
11.       IDA and proposed  cofinanciers  (The Italian Government and CIDA)
would provide financing to the Government of Ghana which in turn will onlend
the proceed to GRC. IDA would provide financing of US$8.0 m under the project.
Cofinancing sources would provide financing of US$33.1 to GRC.  The proceeds
of the IDA and cofinanciers credits will be onlent under the following terms
and conditions: 20 years including 7 years of grace with an interest at 8%
p.a. GRC will bear the exchange risk. The Government will provide funds for
equity participation in the amount of US$14.9. GRC will be able to contribute
its internal cash generation US$3.1 m. A summary Financing Plan is presented
in Attachment 7.
Financial Projection and Future Financial Performance
12.       In order for GRC to be able to generate internally required cost
contribution to stop Government subsidies after 1992 as shown in the financial
projects (Attachments 1 to 3) GRC would need to reduce the number of staff on
a yearly basis to reach staff strength of 6,760 by FY 1990 and of 6,000 by
1995 from the present strength of 7,800.  Any real increase in individual
salaries would come from savings from increased efficiency in the operation of
the Railroad and savings derived from the reduced number of staff;
13.       The objective of GRCs future financial policy should be:
a)   to attain a working ratio of at least 93% in 1991; 86% in 1992;
81% in 1993 and 76% from 1995 onward; and
b)   maintain a debt equity ratio of no more than 50/50 from 1995
onward; and
c)   that new long term debt would be subject to prior review and
agreement with the Association and debt-coverage ratio would be less
than 1.4 during the Term of the new debt.
14.       The combination of increased freight and passenger traffic, reduced
staff number, increased operational efficiency and tariff increased in real
terms should effect a significant improvement in the financial situation by
1991. This is reflected in a forecast decline in the working ratio from 221%
in 1986 to 86% in 1992 and 76% in 1995 in line with the financial objectives
of GRC under the project, (para 4.04, text SAR).
15.       The  achievement  of  these  targets  and  implementation  of  tariff
actions would be closely monitored under project execution. A working ratio
covenant as well as a debt equity and a debt coverage ratio covenant are
proposed.
16.       To complement the actions that would be taken by GRC, the Goverhment
of Ghana agreed during negotiations to provide timely and adequate operational



- 151 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
subsidies as well as the corresponding subvention for bauxite and manganese.
It is also assumed that the Government would help GRC with extraordinary
subsidies during the period 1988-1990 to help GRC reduce over-staffing by
allowing GRC to pay amounts due to all staff to be released. A covenant for
the Government to provide timely funds for capital expenditures, operational
subsidy and subvention all in accordance with the targeted financial
objectives has been agreed.
17.       The projections also indicate that GRC,  if the proposed working
ratio covenant is satisfactorily complied with, would have an adequate cash
flow to cover debt service and other investments. The projections also indi-
cate that all types of Government subsidies will be completely eliminated by
the end of project implementation in 1992. Other agreements under the ongoing
railway project on revaluation of assets are being kept under the new project.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 152 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Notes to the Financial Statements
General
GRC's financial statements for fiscal year (January to June) 1986
are not audited; amounts shown are preliminary figures provided by GRC.  GRC
has not incorporated to its financial accounts the revaluation of fixed assets
and depreciation. The financial statements of 1987 have been projected on the
bases of estimated financial results for the first six months adjusted to take
into account the additional cost resulting from the use of imported stock
required for an adequate maintenance.  In addition to the Traffic assumptions
(Attachment 5) the projected financial statements of 1987-1995 (Attachment 2
to 4) are based on assumptions summarized below. All figures are in constant
prices of mid 1987 and in million cedis (L$10,6).
Income Statements
1.        Total Goods, Parcels and Passengers revenues for 1986 and 1987 are
based on the actual (1986-87) and projected (1988-95) average tariff charged
(Attachment  5).   It is assumed that passenger  tariffs would be increased
before negotiations to 1 Cedis per passenger Km. and that Bauxite tariff would
be increased to about 3.30 cedis per ton 'km; both increases to take effect in
January, 1988.  In addition it is assumed that from 1988 on, tariff increases
in real terms will take place every year as assumed in Attachment 5.
2.        Other  operating  revenues  are  Government  transfers  to  GRC  as
subvention for the Manganese and Bauxite traffic. This subvention is calculat-
ed as the difference between the actual tariff charged per Ton. km. and the
average cost of goods per ton. km. It is projected that after 1989 no compen-
sation will be paid as the tariff proposed and the cost of providing the
service would be equalized.
3.        All operating costs have being grouped into three categories: fixed,
variable and management overhead.Cost due to the personnel reduction plan are
categorized as non operating expenses "extraordinary expenses, personnel
reduction".
4.        The most recent cost information and economic evaluation reports
prepared for GRC by Consultants were used as the bases to derive the projected
costs. (Rites Consultants. Traffic Costing. March 1986. File Document Number
9; Economic appraisal report on Rehabilitation of Central and Eastern Line,
December 1986. Project File document No. 10; Economic appraisal report on
Rehabilitation of Western Line. December 1986. Project File No. 11). The
projected fixed and variable costs have being adjusted as freight and passen-
ger traffic forecast in the projections are lower than traffic estimated by
the consultants. Also the projections take into account savings derived from
the reduction of personnel but they do not reflect any potential cost savings
from projected improvements in operational efficiency.
5.        Fixed costs are those which do not change in magnitude with the
variations in the quantity of output. Conversely, variable costs are sensitive



- 153 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 4
to changes of output. The projected fixed costs includes beside superinten-
dence and general management that change very little with reference to short
run changes in the volume of traffic, maintenance of structures and also of
permanent way to a substantial extent. Variable costs are generally the costs
of provision, maintenance and operation of rolling stock, cost of fuel, wages
of loco crew and running staff.
6.        Fixed  and variable  costs  for  1986 are  actual  according  to the
preliminary accounting information available. These costs do not take into
account the actual need of parts and spares for an adequate maintenance. They
reflect only local purchases of stock due to the inability of GRC to buy
imported stocks. However, the projected figures for the period 1987 to 1995
take into account the costs derived from local and imported stocks.  Fixed
cost have been apportioned among the three segments (Western, Central and
Eastern Lines) based on the theoretical volume of traffic for the year 1995.
Variable cost are projected according to the actual volume of traffic using
unit costs applicable to the projected volume of traffic. Projected fixed
costs will decrease in real terms due to the decrease in personnel, from the
present strength of 7,800 to 6,000 in 1990 and to 5,500 by 1994. Variable cost
for goods and parcels will increase in proportion to the volume of cargo being
carried.  For passengers it increases in proportion to the number of trains
and not in direct proportion to the passengers carried.
7.        Attachment 7 shows a detailed breakdown of projected costs by three
main categories. Staff, material, fuel and miscellaneous.
8.        Management Overhead is projected to decrease during the period very
little in real terms.  It is assumed that GRC, with its present number of
staff at management level (except for the addition of very few highly
technical positions) will be able to manage the traffic projected up to 1995.
In any case most of the personnel retrenchment will be at the lower staff
levels.
9.        Depreciation  In absence of a reliable revaluation index, such as a
national construction index or similar, the 1986 and 1987 gross fixed assets
and accumulated depreciation are revalued in line with the average increase of
the overall cost of operation of GRC. The beginning gross balance of fixed
assets in 1986 is only 50% of the total value resulted from the study for the
revaluation of fixed assets prepared by GRC in 1983-1984. (Project Files
Document Number 12).  This adjustment was necessary to approximate the 1986
gross value of fixed assets with the real cost of revalued assets taking into
account the deteriorated physical condition of the Central and Eastern lines
in 1986 since the study assumes that the Central and Eastern lines would be
fully operational.  However, due to lack of maintenance, both lines now will
be completely rehabilitated by the proposed project. Therefore, the revalued
fixed assqts on the Central and Eastern Line is much lower than anticipated.
10.       Annual depreciation charges are projected based on a 2.5% deprecia-
tion rate applied to gross revalued fixed assets.   This percentage is the
weighted average rate of all combined assets taking into account the weight or
average rate of all combined assets assuming a normal life span and their
revalued cost as shown in the revaluation study.
11.       Other non operating income are government subsidies,  (a) to cover
operations short falls and (b) to pay for the additional expenses for extraor-
dinary severance payments due to the staff reduction program, and full



- 154 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 4
retirement benefits to employees who are over the statutory retirement age.
The former is calculated as the amount of cash to be provided by the
government to permit the railway to cover all its cash requirements required
for operations and maintain a cash balance equal to an average of six months
of cash operating costs. The latter is calculated using 500,000 cedis as
average payment per employee being laid off.
l
12.       Interest expense are operational interests only. It is projected
that all interest during construction will be capitalized. Up to 1992 this
includes interest during construction and commitment fee for credit 1170 GH
and interest and other bank charges for overdraft and from other short term
liabilities. In 1993 and after all interest are accounted as operational
expenses.
13.       Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement
Accounts receivable for services.  Projected to remain at about two
months of total revenues (15%) up to 1994 and 10% onward.
14.       Inventories during the projected period are in excess of the stock
needed to satisfy GRCs normal maintenance because this account include materi-
als to be used in the implementation of the ongoing projects. Total inventory
projects will show a decrease in stock as inventory will be depleted starting
in 1990 to reach appropriate levels by 1995. Thereafter the value of the
inventory would be equivalent to about a nine months of material and three
months of fuel.
15.       Accounts Payable includes payments due to suppliers and contractor
in the normal line of business of GRC projected to increase in line with
increases in revenues, though as a percentage of revenues, it should be
maintained at a constant level. They do not include any project related
accounts.
16.       Long Term Debt projected on the basis of GRCs existing and future
debt service requirements projected based on terms and conditions of on
lending terms for Credit 1170-GH and proposed terms for the proposed credit.
17.       Investments
Total Investments includes the expenditures under the current IDA
financed project (Cr 1170 GH) and all the expenditures under the proposed
project financed by IDA or any other cofinancier, including government capital
contributIons and taxes. It is assumed that during the implementation period
1988-1992 no other works would be implemented as the project would cover all
investments needs.  In 1992 and after it is projected that GRC would need to
make other investments in the amounts shown in the financial projections.
4
18.       Debt Service
Projected debt service requirements reflect interest and principal
payments on existing and future borrowing.



- 155 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 4
Contributions
19.       Governments Capital Contributions
The projections take into account the approximate US$14.9 million to
be provided by the government during the project implementation period toward
project financing including payment of interest during construction.
AF4IN
October 1987



ANNEX 4
-  156  -                                                          Attachment  2
REPUBLIC OF GhANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
16-Oct-87
s-----  CTUL -----?    -----------------------------------------------'-----------------------------------------------------
UNITS              1986          1987          1988          1989          1990          1991          1992         1993         1994        1995
INCORE STATERENT                                    Million  Cedis
WESTERN LINE=TOTAL REVENUES=G00D                                           360.27        428.Oo        B49.18       1044.25       1200.b6       1291.69       1336.56      1376.36      1387.92     1442.21
TOTAL REVENUES=PASSEN6ERs                                     15o.67        207.68        375.24        412.26        430.82        459.42        487.77      554.89       599.88       629.8B
=TOTAL REVENUES-PARCELS                                        53.39         68.12         90.09         96.bv        103.34        113.56        119.23       130.76       133.54      139.11
TOTAL REVENUES                                                             570.33        704.60       1314.51       15513.11      1734.81       IBb4.68       1943.56     20b2.01      2121.35      2211.19
CENTRAL LINE=TOTAL REVENUES=G0O0                                            12.02         12.02         15.02         29.51         54.33         88.22        112.oO       118.49       119.91      157.73
=TOlAL REVENUES=PASSENGERS                                      7.12          7.74         58.30        101.09        125.50        197.67        217.17       217.6b      244.65       264.23
=TOTAL REVENUES PARCELS                                         3.6B          3.08          b.93         14.14         28.84         37.85         39.74        41.73        44.51       47.30
TOTAL REVENUES                                                              22.82         23.44         80.25        151.74        208.08        323.73        369.51       397.88      409.08       469.26
EASTERN LINE=TOTAL REVENUES600D                                             1.92          5.74          9.13         48.44        133.74        311.29        443.44       494.62      517.02       525.62
-TOTAL REVENUES*PASSENGERS                                      8.10          8.80         00.25        136.48        199.60        269.54        30B.4B       317.73       365.39      400.34
=TOTAL REVENUES-PARCELS                                         3.68          3.68          6.93         23.56         31.24         75.70         84.79        89.03        91.81       97.38
TOTAL REVENUES                                                              13.70         18.22         82.31        20B.48        304.64        650.54        836.71       901.38      974.22      1023.33
OTHER OPERATING REVENUEStBAUX. MANG. SUBVENTION)                             0.00        41b.67        108.30          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
OPERATING REVENUES                                                        600.80        1162.93       1645.37       1913.33       2308.13       2844.95       3149.78      3361.28     3504.06      3703.78
OPERATING EXPENSES
NESTERN LINE
FIXED COSTS0 GOODS=                                                        239.97        386.16        382.41        447.70        427.29        414.54        408.1b       401.78      395.40       389.03
VARIABLE COSTS=60ODS=                                                      236.83        433.11        514.70        575.87        050.20        617.12        642.96       640.89       704.50      706.57
FIXED COSTS=PARCELS=                                                        25.09         40.38         39.99         36.34         34.09         33,05         33.13        32.62        32.10       31.58
VARIABLE COSTS=PARCELS=                                                     26.33         50.78         53.01         50.64         50.69         51.47         50.68        52.10       52.37        53.67
FIXEO COSTS=PASSENGERS                                                      85.31        137.29        135.95        173.00        165.11        160.19        157.72       155.26       152.79      150.33
VARIABLE COSTS=PASSENGERS=                                                 129.47        254.07        301.92        292.09        279.35        275.25        279.35       303.71      323.13       317.92
743.00      1301.80       1427.97       1576.25       I61S.33       1552.20       1571.99      1586.36      1660.29      1649.09
CENTRAL LINE
FlXED COSTS=GO0DS=                                                          37.04         59.60         59.02         63.64         60.74         58.93         58.02        57.11        56.21       55.30
VARIABLE COSTSG600DSz                                                        2.83          4.50          4.67          7.55         13.14         18.83         22.29        22.46        24.89       33.96
FIXED COSTS=PARCELS=                                                        14.79         23.81         23.57         21.43         20.45         19.84         19.53        19.23        18.92        18.b2
VARIABLE COSTS=PARCELS=                                                      0.81          1.69          3.70          6.62         12.77         15.24         14.78        14.55        15.28        15.98
FIXED COSTS PASSENGERS                                                      55.1O         88.67         87.81         89.99         85.9         83.32         82.04        80.76        79.48        78.20
VARIABLE COSTS=PASSEN6ERS=                                                   2.90          6.06         45.02         71.29         76.38        109.34        113.15       118.37       119.95       121.42
113.47        184.38       223.86        260.51        269.37        305.50        309.82       312.49       314.73       323.48
EASTERN LINE
FIXED COSTS600D6S                                                           82.97        133.51        132.21        195.00        18b6.11       180.5t        177.78       175.00       172.22       169.44
VARIABLE COSTSGODS=                                                        0.52          2.17          2.22         10.13         28.00         50,19         69.57        72.85        80.73       93.72
FIXED COSTS'PARCELS=                                                        21.68         34.89         34.55         31.40         29.97         29.07         28.03        28.18        27.73       27.29
VARIABLE COSTS.PARCELSz                                                      0.82          1.32          1.97          5.96          7.40         16.56         17.39        17.12        17.38        18.13
FIXEB COSTS=PASSENlERS                                                      b6.88        107.63        106.58        135.00        128.85        125.00        123.08       121.15       119.23       117.31
VARIABLE COSTS-PASSENGERS=                                                   4.83          7.77         38.48         69.94         93.40        116.57        127.53       125.54       142.08       145.86
177.71       287.30        316.01        447.44        473.78        517.95        543.98       539.85       559.37       561.75
NABEiENT OYERNEAD
WESTERN LINE                                                               158.14        221.40        219.24        199.26        190.17        184.50        181.66       178.82       175.98       173.14
CENTRAL LINE                                                                26.68         37.35         36.99         33.61         32.08         31.12         30.65        30.17        29.69        29.21
EASTERN LINE                                                                53.34         74.68         73.95         67.21         64.15         62.23         61.28        60.32        59.36       58.40
TOTAL OPERATING COST                                                      1272.34       2106.90       2298.02       2584.28       2644.88       2653.51       2699.37      2708.01     2799.42      2795.07
INCOME BEFORE OEPRECIATION                                                -665.48       -943.97       -652.65       -670.94       -336.75        191.44        450.41      653.27       705.24       908.71
DEPRECIATIATION                                                             45.00        526.42        696.44        776.39        776.39        838.89        953.9B      1008.16      1011.56     1015.36
OPERATING INCOME                                                          -710.48      -1472.39      -1349.O8      -1447.33      -1113.13       -647.45       -503.56      -354.89     -306.33      -106.65
INTEREST EXPENSES                                                           11.20         26.61         21.68         21.99         22.60         23.02         23.20      549.47       549.47       531.83
EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSES (P,rsonnel Reduction)                                               0.00        260.00        130.00        160.00        100.00         50.00        18.00        19.00        19.20
INTEREST EARNED ON INVESTNENTS                                               0.00          6.20          6.20          6.20          6.20         13.93         24.61       26.10        29.31        35.11
OTHER NON OPERATING INCOHEtGOVERNMENT SUBSIDY).                            427.00        713.00        499.00        532.00        134.00        100.00        100.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
OTHER NON OPERATING INCOE(EIXTRAORDINARY SUBSIDY)                            0.00          0.00        260.00        130.00        160.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
NET INCOtE                                                                -294.68       -779.00       -865.56       -931.12       -995.53       -656.54       -452.15      -B96.26     -845.4B      -622.58
WORKING RATIO                                                              209.661       181.171       139.67l       135.071       114.591        93.27l        B5.701       B0.561       79.681      75.47%
OPERATING RATIO                                                            217.001       226.611       181.99X       175.64%       148.237       122.761       115.991      110.561      108.74l      102.881



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
16-Oct-87
(------ ACTUAL -------    <----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UNITS              19B6         1987          1980          1989         1990          1991          1992        1993         1994         1995
CASH FLOH STATEMENT                                  Million  Cedis
INCOHE BEFORE DEPRECIATION                                              -665.48       -943.97       -652.65      -670.94       -336.75        191.44       450.41       653.27       705.24      906.71
INTERESTS EARNED ON INVESTHENTS                                            0.00          6.20          6.20         6.20          6.20         13.93        24.61        26.10        29.31       35.11
GOVERNMENT SUBSIDIES                                                     427.00       713.00        499.00       532.00        134.00        100.00       100.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
GOVERNMENT EXTRAOROINARV SUBSIDY                                            0.00         0.00        260.00        130.00       160.00          0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                                                -238.4B       -230.97       -153.65      -138.94       -202.75        291.44       550.41       653.27       705.24      90B.71
AMORTIZATION                                                                0.00         0.00          6.71          6.71         6.71          6.71          6.71        6.71         6.71      447.51
INTEREST EXPENSE                                                           11.20        26.b1         21.68        21.99         22.60         23.02        23.20       549.47       549.47      531.83
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                                         11.20        26.61         28.39         2B.70        29.31         29.73        29.91       556.19       556.18      979.34
NORKING CAPITAL NEEDS                                                       2.49      -158.21        -68.79        117.34       -59.52       -353.02       -51.95       -67.98       -75.33     -375.47
OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES                                                0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT                                              -252.17        -99.37       -113.24      -284.99       -172.53        614.73       572.35       165.07       224.39      304.84
INVESTMENT COST, IBRO PROJECT                                              0.00          0.00        240.00       400.00        400.00        241.60         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
INYESTMENT COST, ITALIAN CREDIT                                             0.00         0.00        761.bO      1009.60       2328.00       1200.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
OTHER CREDITS ICIDA)                                                        0.00         0.00        228.80        468.80       152.00         99.20          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
CREDIT 1170 6H                                                           3000.00      2192.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
OTHER                                                                       0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         80.00        128.00      128.00       144.00       160.00
INVESTMENTS SUBTOTAL                                                    3000.00       2192.00       1230.40      IB78.40       2880.00       1620.80       128.00       128.00       144.00       160.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST                                                        0.00         0.00         32.40        125.22       277.27        434.25       513.03         0.00         0.00         0.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                  3000.00       2192.00       12b2.80      2003.62       3157.27       2055.05       641.03       128.00       144.00       160.00
REQUIRED FINANCING                                                      3252.17       2291.37       1376.04       22S8.60      3329.81       1440.33         6B.67      -37.07       -80.39      -144.84
DISBURSEMENTS, IBRD LOAN                                                    0.00         0.00        IBO.00       360.00        400.00        281.20         60.40        0.00         0.00         0.00
DISBURSEMENTS. CO-FINANCIER LOAN                                            0.00         0.00        630.00       1150.42      1891.02       1352.28       275.48         0.00         0.00         0.00
DISBURSEMENTS, CREDIT 1170 6H                                           3000.00       2192.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
DISBURSEMENTS. OTHER                                                        0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
TOTAL LOANS                                                             3000.00       2192.00        810.00      1510.42       2291.02       1633.48       335.88         0.00         0.00         0.00                :
GOVNT.CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION                                               300.00         99.37        566.04       778.18       1038.79          0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00                r
TOTAL FINANCING                                                         3300.00       2291.37       1376.04      2288.60       3329.81       1633.48       335.88         0.00         0.00         0.00
CHANGE IN CASH                                                             47.83         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        193.15       267.20        37.07        80.39       144.84
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                                                        -21.29        -8.68         -5.41         -4.84        -6.92          9.80         18.40        1.17         1.27         0.93



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
16-Oct-87
IIII:IIt:I:   I  I  tI-II~~~~I~~--..:  I:±:~~.   ±  I  ..~~t-  IIIZIII::::n     I:           z-......Ih..h.....                      ........
------ ACTUAL ------- > (<------------------
UNITS             1986         1987         1988        1989         1990         1991         1992        1993        1994        19S
BALAICE SHEET                                     Million Cedis
LON6 TERE DEBT, PORTION TO K REVALUED                                  80.00X      80.00       80.00       80.00T       80.00X       80.001       80.00      80.00!      80.00%      90.00?
FIXED ASSETS                                                        17613.96    24659.54     31055.54     31055.54     31055.54     36055.54     40262.54    403S0.54    40534.54    40694.54
ACCUULATED DEPRECIATION                                             10763.25     15596.97     16293.41    17069.80     17846.19     I8685.07     19639.05    20647.21    21658.79    22674.14
IT FIXED ASSETS                                                      6850.71     9062.5S      14762.14    13985.75     13209.36     17370.47     20623.49    19743.33    1U75.77    18020.40
a   IN PROGREESS                                                     3300.00     6396.00       792.00      3342.00      6761.00      3892.00       100.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
CASH                                                                  155.00       155.00       155.00      155.00       155.00       348.15       615.35      652.43      732.82      877.66
ACCOINTS RECEIVABLE SERVICES                                           90.80       174.44      246.81       287.00       346.22       426.74       472.47      504.19      525.70      370.38
INVENTORY                                                            1462.00     1345.00      1210.00      1340.00      1227.00       800.00       700.00      600.00      500.00      280.00
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                                                  210.00       72.86        79.47        89.37        91.46        91.76        93.35       93.65       96.91       96.66
OTHER CRREINT ASSETS                                                    0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
---   _  __  _ --__-- __-- -- - --__ -- --_--  ----_- ---- - -- -- - - - - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - ---- -_ ----- -- -------------------------  -               -  - - - - - - - - - ----  -
TOTAL CIRRENT ASSETS                                                 1917.80      1747.30     1691.29      1871.37      1819.68      1666.66      1881.17     1850.27     1855.33     1624.70                      O
---------- - ------ --- ------ ---- ----- ------ ------- --- -------- -- --- _-_-_   _- _-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_  _-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-  _  _ -
OTHER ASSETS                                                            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
TOTAL ASSETS                                                        12068.51     17205.88     17245.41    19199.12     21790.04     22929.13     22604.67    21593.60    20731.09    I9645.10
LONG TERE OEBT, BE61NING BALAICE                                      106.09     2298.09      3223.95      4727.66      7011.97      8638.74      8967.90     8961.19     8954.48     8506.97
LONG TEM DEBT, INCREMENTAL REVALUATION                                  0.00       122.56        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
LONG TERE DEBT, REVALOED. ENIIN6 BALANCE                              106.09     2420.65      3223.95      4727.66      7011.97      8638.74      8967.90     8961.19     8954.48     8506.97
LONG TERE DEBT CURRENT PORTION                                          0.00         0.00        6.71         6.71         6.71         6.71         6.71        6.71        6.71      447.51
LONG TERE DEBT, LONG TERE                                             106.09     2420.65      3217.24      4720.95      7005.26      8632.03      8961.19     8954.48     8947.77     8059.46
OTHER LON6 TEEN LIABILITIES                                             0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
TOTAL LON6 TERE LIABILITIES                                           106.09     2420.65      3217.24      4720.95      7005.26      8632.03      8961.19     8954.48     8947.77     8059.46
CURRENT LIABILITIES                                                    94.00       107.00       118.00      278.00       184.00       190.00       190.00     I9.00       I9.OO      190.00             n x
LONG TERN DEBT, CURRENT PORTION                                         0.00        0.00         6.71         6.71         6.71         6.71         6.71        6.71        6.71      447.51             1 >
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES                                              67.00       46.00        47.77        50.52        52.36        53.20        52.36       52.36       52.36       52.36             0
0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00             >
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                                             161.00       153.00       172.48      235.23       243.07       249.91       249.07      249.07      249.07      689.87
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                     267.09     2573.65      3389.72      4956.18      7248.33      8881.94      9210.26     9203.55     9196.84     8749.33
EQUITY                                                              11801.42     14632.22     13855.70    14242.94     14541.72     14047.19     13394.40    12390.04    11534.25    10695.77
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                                        12068.51     17205.88     17245.41    19199.12    21790.04      22929.13     22604.67    215S3.60    20731.09    19645.10
DEBT/IDEBT+EQUITYI RATIO                                                0.891       14.192       18.881      24.921       32.53?       38.081       40.102      41.97?      43.701      43.84?
CURRENT RATIO                                                          11.91        11.42        9.81         7.96         7.49         6.67         7.55        7.43        7.45        2.36



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
16-Oct-87
(------ ACTUAL -------     ----------------- ----------                                                  ----------
UNITS              1986          1987           1989          1989          1990          1991          1992         1993         1994         1995
AVERAGE TARlFFS==GOODS== 
COCOA                                                 CEDIS/TKM               6.69          6.69          8.03          8.43          8.95          9.30          9.76         10.05        10.05        10.05
TIMBER                                                CEDISITKM               6.30          6.30          8.19          8.75          8.75          9.19          9.64          9.93         9.93         9.93
TIHBER                                                CEDISIWAGON          3000.00       3000.00       5000.00       5250.00       5512.50       5799.13       6077.53      6381.41      6381.41       6391.41
BAUXITE                                               CEDIS/TKM               1.46          1.46          4.50          4.50          4.73          4.96          4.96          4.96         4.96         4.96
MANGANESE                                             CEDIS/TKM               5.07          5.07          9.26          9.72          9.72          9.72          9.72          9.72         9.72         9.72
PETROLEUM                                             CEDISiTKM               9.40          9.40         11.28         11.28          11.28         11.28         11.29        12.41        12.41        12.41
CEMENT                                                CEDIS/TONNES         1595.0        1585.00       1900.00       1890.00       1984.50       2093.73       2187.91      2187.91       2187.91      2187.91
OTHERS                                                CEDISi;TKM              t.69          6.9           8.70          9.14          9.59          10.07         10.57        10.89        10.89        10.89
AYERAGE TARIFF=LU66AGE AND PARCEL                     CEDIS/               1841.00       1841.00       2310.00       2356.20       2403.32       2523.49       2649.66      2782.15      2782.15      2792.15
AVERA6E TARIFF==PASSEN6ER TRAFFIC==                   CEDIS/PKM               0.70          0.70          1.06          1.09           1.14          1.20          1.23         1.27         1.27         1.33
Vl
ft
Vs



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
16-Oct-87
-                                        (------   ACTUAL   --~~~~-~-->-----CTUAL   ----- - )   <  ----- ----------- ---------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------
UNITS              19S6         1987          1998          1999         1990          1991          1992        1993         1994         1995
OPERATING EXPENSES                                Million  Cedis
STAFF                                                                     990.14      1112.67       1230.76      1196.39       1139.00       1111.50      1100.90      1134.00      1179.00     1171.20
MATERIALS                                                                198.90        683.30        675.09       952.00       1010.04        972.34       996.27       946.29      969.99       956.11
FUEL                                                                     160.50        273.01        350.81       399.38        448.23        521.91       563.72       578.99      601.04       617.45
MISCELLANEOUS                                                             22.90         37.92         41.36        46.52         47.61         47.76        48.59        48.74       50.39        50.31
TOTAL EXPENSES                                                          1272.34       2106.90       2298.02      2584.29       2644.98      2653.51       2699.37      2708.01     2799.42      2795.07
rX
rt
03
n
oa



- 161 -
ANNEX 4
Attachment 7
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN(FY88-92)                                                 SUM US$        SUM CEDIS
SOURCES OF FUND
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT                                                        3.9         616.32
BORROWING
IDA CREDIT                                                                        8.0       1281.60
CO-FINANCIERS                                                                    33.1       5299.20
OTHER                                                                             0.0           0.00
TOTAL                                                                            41.1       6580.80
GOVERNMENT CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION                                                  14.9       2383.01
TOTAL FINANCING                                                                  59.9       9580.13
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
PROJECT (INC. TAXES)                                                             47.1       7529.60
OTHER WORKS                                                                       1.3         208.00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST                                                              8.6        1382.18
TOTAL INVESTMENT                                                                 57.0       9119.78
INCREASE (DECREASE) OF CASH                                                       2.9        460.35
TOTAL                                                                            59.9       9580.13



- 162 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
General Assumptions
1.        Economic returns are calculated using border prices of both
cost and benefit streams.   Import components are evaluated at c.i.f.
prices, excluding taxes but including internal transport costs.  Local
components (other than labor) are converted to border prices using a
conversion factor of 0.9. Local road construction contract costs, which
have indirect foreign components, are converted using a factor of 0.85.
An exchange rate of 160 cedis = $1 is used; all prices relate to
mid-1987.   Economic  costs  exclude  price  contingencies  but  include
physical contingencies.
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
(a) Periodic Maintenance and Backlog Clearance: Trunk Roads (GHA)
2.        The methodology presented in detail in Annex 4 of the RRMP
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5469-GH) has been followed for this
analysis.   The main benefits are savings in vehicle operating costs
(VOC) brought about by improving road conditions. Recurrent maintenance
cost on the roads, with project and without project, is assumed the
same.
3.        Costs  include  trunk  road  periodic  maintenance  costs  for
1988-89  (US$56  m),  physical  contingencies   (US$5.0  m)  additional
supervision costs under the proje.± (US$2.0 m), and the continuing RRMP
costs  for  training  and  institutional  support   (about  US$8.0  m
equivalent).   In addition,  the trunk road routine maintenance costs
under the project (US$10 m for the two years) is also included, even
though its benefits will spread through the entire road network (these
additional benefits not counted).  Total costs, therefore, are US$81 m
for 2 years; economic costs at 0.85 is 68.8; proportionate cost for one
year = US$34.4 m.
4.        The results for (a) above are presented through Attachments
1-5.   As stated,  these results are for typical road sections.   The
actual ERR may vary for some sections.  Government has agreed that only
road sections with minimum 15% ERR will be covered under the program.
(b) Feeder Road Program
5.        Details of the assumptions and analysis are given in Project
Document No. D04935. The study shows that ERR for the base-case is 25%
for spot improvements (cost about US$6,000 per km); regravelling and
rehabilitation on feeder roads will be justified (cost about US$10,000
per km) only if average traffic is above 25 vehicles per day (ERR -



- 163 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
16%).   Actual  road  selection  will  be  monitored  on  this  basis.
Attachment 6 presents cost-benefit analysis of spot improvements on a
20-km feeder road in Ejura region.
(c) Kumasi-Bolgatanga-Paga Road Rehabilitation
6.        Details of assumptions and analysis are presented in Project
Document No. D02888 (i)).  Annex 3-1 of SAR gives summary of ERR for
each road section, which ranges from 16% to 43%.  It also gives traffic
levels and costs of each section.  Traffic is based on traffic surveys
conducted by consultants at end-1986.  A 2.5% traffic growth is assumed
which is conservative.   Composite ERR for the road sections covered
under this component is 29%.  Attachment 7 presents sample cost and
benefit streams for the road section with the largest rehabilitation
costs, viz. section Kintampo-New Kadelso, 76 km, at US$11.5 m in
rehabilitation costs. Estimated ERR is 32%.
(d) Bridge Rehabilitation
7.        A basic outline of the justification is contained in Chapter 6
of the study by Consultants Tahal, (Project Document No. D04735).  The
consultants' estimate for individual bridges exceeded ERR of 100%; it
was conservatively reduced to 70% in this analysis.
Railway Components:
8.        The  economic  analysis  of  railway  components  is  based  on
detailed work by consultants RITES (Project Document No. D04733),
modified  by  Bank  staff.   Traffic  assumptions  and  projections  are
explained in Annex 2-9.  Traffic assigned to the railways is based on
detailed origin/destination  surveys and comparative cost analysis of
expected traffic. It is generally assumed that with the recovery of the
economy, and with the proposed full rehabilitation of the railway system
and strengthening of its management, the estimated traffic will be
restored to the railways, bringing aggregate rail traffic to somewhere
near its 1972 level when physical deterioration of the railways had
started.  Traffic is distributed to different lines (Western, Eastern
and Central) based on traffic origins/destinations.
9.        Benefits due to the rail project are quantified on the basis
of alternative road transport costs that would have been incurred to
carry  the  traffic  in  the  absence  of  rail  rehabilitation.   Vehicle
operating costs were estimated for each type of vehicle currently in use
for carrying the specific commodity; for passenger transport, bus
transport is taken as the alternative; some of the new long-distance
passenger traffic will divert from more expensive car-use, but these
higher benefits have been ignored. Road vehicle unit costs are shown in
Annex 3-1, Attachment  5.  These costs have been updated from RITES
estimates (details in Project Files).
10.       It is assumed that in the "without project" situation, in the
western part of the Central line, a 10 km (cost:US$2.4 m) road will have



- 164 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
to be constructed to connect two existing cocoa loading stations to the
road system.  Avoiding this road investment is taken as a benefit for
the Eastern line investments.   Total road transport cost savings are
based on unit vehicle costs and road distances for the relevant traffic.
Road distances are shorter than rail distances on the Eastern line; on
the Central line where the road network is poorly developed, road
distances are more than distance by rail (Attachments 8-12).
11.       For benefit calculations, it is assumed that the Eastern and
Central lines, which are below safety threshold at present, will become
unsafe and unusable by 1990, in the absence of the project.  All the
rail traffic would then go by road. On the Western line, it is assumed
that but for follow-up investments consisting of rolling stock,
locomotives, workshops, spares and management support, the freight
capacity on this line would freeze at about 0.75 m tons, and passenger
capacity  at  about  30%  less  than  estimated  traffic  in  1990.   Road
transport is assumed as an alternative for the traffic in excess of
these capacity  levels,  and benefit  is calculated based on the cost
difference between road transport and rail operating costs per unit of
traffic (this difference estimated as 6 cedis per ton-km, and 1 cedi per
ton-km).
12.       The rail costs include all investments under the rail project
(no other new investments will be needed in the near future), and
incremental rail operating costs, and additional transhipment costs
(road to rail and vice versa) where relevant.   Only 62% of the total
rail operating costs, which excludes depreciation, on the Eastern and
Central lines is taken as incremental economic costs until 1995, after
which full operating costs are taken.   This is because much of the
existing staff assigned to these lines will remain a fixed and sunk cost
in the medium term even if these rail lines were not rehabilitated; it
is assumed that GRC will not be able to dismiss more than 50% of the
staff on these lines before 1995, if these lines were to be abandoned.
Other Components:
13.       ERR has not been estimated for the remaining 5% of project
costs which consist of institutional support to MTC, GCAA, and NPC, road
safety improvements, sector-wide training, intermediate transport, etc.
These items are amply justified based on the many intangible benefits
from them listed in para 6.01.
Summary
14.       The following summarizes the ERR and sensitivity analysis of
different components.



- 165 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
Summary of ERR and Sensitivity
(Figures in Percentages)
Component                                         Sensitivity Analysis
% of Total           ERR         ERR w/       ERR w/ 2 Yr. delay
Project Costs    (Base Case)   Benefits          Costs in Benefits
Less 20%      up 10%       (Rlwys
Component)
1. Railway: Central Line
Rehabilitation                 8              27.6          18.0         24.2         21.4
2. Railway: Eastern Line
Rehabilitation                10              22.4          14.2         20.2         17.8
3. Railway: Western Line
Follow up                    4              25.0          18.4          22.0         19.0
4. Trunk Road Maintenance
(and clearing backlog)      37              47.5          33.5          41.0
5. Feeder Roads Maintenance    7                25.0          18.0         22.0
6. Kumasi-Paga Road
Rehabilitation              25               29.0         23.0          26.0
7. Bridge Rehabilitation         4              70.0         48.0          57.0
8. Other Components              5                  Benefits not Quantified
(Benefits not quantified)
9. Composite ERR on
Items 1 to 3 (Rlwy)         22              24.8          16.3          22.0         19.3
10. Composite ERR on Items
1 - 7                      95              36.7          26.2          31.9
11. Composite ERR on
Total Project              100             34.8          24.9          30.3
(Ignoring benefits from 8)
AF4IN
October 1987



-  166 -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC  OF  GHANA                                     Attachment  1
transport Rehabilitation Project
Present Distribution of Trunk Roads by Surface Type, Traffic Level and Surface Condition
Length by Surface Conditions
Traffic               Road            ----------------------------
Class       Surface Type                  Range              Lenqth                Good       Fair     Poor
Payed Roads                          (ADT)                (km)               (km)       (ke)      (km)
_ _ _ _ __-
I    Asphalt concrete                 ) 1000                  37                 24         13         0
2    Surface treatment                > 1000               1,022                 187       232       603
3    Surface treatment              500-1000               1.411                 257       321       933
4    Surface treatment               200-500               3,312                604        754    1,954
Subtotal, Paved Roads                                   5.792               1,072      1,320    3,390
Unpaved Roads
5    Gravel (laterite)                 >300                  770                 228        292      250
6    Gravel                          150-300                 952                 253       323       276
7    Gravel                           50-150               3,573              1,059      1,355    1,159
8    6ravel                             ( 50               3,157                936      1,198    1,023
Subtotal, Unpaved Roads                                 9,352               2,476      3,169    2,708
JLF 4IN
J UL Y 1 98 7



-  167  -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                   Attachment 2
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Vehicle Operatinq Costs for Different Road Conditions
W9S per kW)
Weiqhted Averaqe               Savinqs
Road           AveraQe               VOC of Typical                 when
Condition       Rouohness            Veh. Coeposition a/            converted
----------      ---------            ------------------              to good
(1RRL so/km)                                        ---------
Paved Roads
Good             2,000                           0.2b
Fair             4,000                           0.31                 0.05
Poor             6 000                           0.37                 0.11
Unpaved Roads
good             3,000                           0.29
Fair             5,000                           0.34                0.05
Poor             9,000                           0.44                0.15
a/ The vehicle distribution and unit operatinq costs are based on mission
estimates.
AF4IN
JULY 1987



ANNEXI~
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Transport Rehabilitation Project                                              Attachment 3
Project Benefits - Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs from Periodic Maintenance
First Year
Annual VOC                    Annual VOC      Savings
Periodic Maintenance Output             without Project                with Project    in YOC
(average annual km)                    (US$ an.)                   (US$ on.)       (US$ *n.1
Maintenance                 Road                -------------------------------        ----------------------             ------------   ----------
ctivity                  Class     ADT a/   Good        Fair      Poor   Total       Fair     Poor    Total                  Good
Regravelling                   5      310           0       205       109     393      7.89      9.36    17.25                12.90          4.35
6     200           0         0       189      188     0.00      6.04      6.04                 3.98          2.06
7      90           0         0       375      375     0.00      5.42      5.42                 3.57          1.85
8      40           0         0         0        0     0.00      0.00      0.00                0.00           0.00                           I
Subtotal                                          0       205      751      956      7.89    20.82    28.71                 20.45          8.26                           co
Resealing                      2    1020       -    0        77         0      77      8.09      0.00      8.89                7.45           1.43
3     550           0         0         0        0     0.00      0.00      0.00                0.00           0.00
4     300           0         0         0        0     0.00      0.00      0.00                0.00           0.00
Subtotal                                          0        77         0      77      8.89      0.00     9.89                 7.45           1.43
Resurfacing                    2    1020            0         0      240      240      0.00    33.06    33.06                 23.23          9.83
+tinor works                   3      550           0         0       152     152      0.00    11.29    11.29                  7.93          3.36
* Subtotal                                          0         0       392      392     0.00    44.35    44.35                 31.17          13.19
GRAND TOTAL                                         0       282      1143    1425    16.77    65.17    81.94                  59.07          22.88
a/ The traffic distribution by road class is based on aission estimates.



- 169 -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                               Attachment  4
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Cost Estimates for Periodic Maintenance of Trunk Roads
Total Cost
Unit               --------------------------
Maintenance               Annual              Cost                Average            Two-Year
Activity                  Program a/         per km b/             Annual            Program
(kn)              (USS)                        CUSS on.)
Regravelling                956               7,000                 6.692             13.384
Resealing                     77             22,000                  1.694             3.388
Resurfacing  c1             392              50,000                 19.600            39.200
Additional d/                                                       10.000            20.000
Physical Contingencies                                               2.500             5.000
TOTAL (Fin.)                                                        40.486            80.972
TOTAL (Econ., 85X)                                                 34.413             68.826
a/ From GHA estimates.
b/ Averaged over the two years, 198e-89.
c/ Includes cost of minor works.
d/ Includes supervision, RRMPC costs and routine maintenance.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 170 -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                                  -------
---------- 7 ------                                               Attachment  5
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Economic Rate of Return of Periodic Maintenance of Trunk Roads
(US) on.)
VOC                 VDC                    VOC
Savings             Savings               Savings             Totil
for                 for                    for              Savings                Total              Net
Year               Regravelling          Resealing            Resurfacing           in VOC                Costs            Benefit
1989                                                                                  0.00               34.40             (34.40)
1990                   8.26                 1.43                  13.19              22.88                                  22.88
1991                   6.19                 1.23                  11.87              19.29                                  19.29
1992                   4.13                 1.02                  10.55              15.70                                  15.70
1993                   2.06                 0.B2                   9.23              12.11                                  12.11
1994                                        0.61                   7.91               8.53                                   8.53
1995                                        0.41                   6.59               7.00                                   7.00
1996                                        0,20                   5.27               5.48                                   5.48
1997                                                               3.96               3.96                                   3.96
1998                                                               2.64               2.64                                   2.64
1999                                                               1.32               1.32                                   1.32
ERR:       47.45X
Note:  Based on one year's program; second year program will be similar'.
AF4IN
October 1987



- 171 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                         ANNEX 5
Transport Rehabilitation Project              Attachment  6
Feeder Road Maintenance
Economic Analysis of Typical Case of Spot leprovements 1/
(Base Case)
(Million Cedis / mid- '87 prices)
Econ.21      Econ.3/            Net
Year           Costs       Benefits           Benefits
1988           7.50          0.00              -7.50
1989           7.50          2.10              -5.40
1990           0.00          4.20               4.20
1991           0.00          4.20               4.20
1992           0.00          4.20               4.20
1993           0.00          4.20               4.20
1994           0.00         .4.20               4.20
1995           0.00          4.20               4.20
1996           0.00          4.20               4.20
1997           0.00          4.20               4.20
1998           0.00          4.20               4.20
1999           0.00          4.20               4.20
ERR:        25.4Z
I/ Based on 20 Km feeder road in Ejura Region;
(Ejura Area Road Study; SWKP, March '87)
2/ Maintenance costs assumed the same with and without the project.
3/ 70X froe awarded head loading costs and 30. from net
increeental value of fare production.
AF4IN
JULY 1987



- 172 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                         ANNEX 5
Transport Rehabilitation Project                Attachment  7
Kueasi Paga Rehabilitation
Econoeic Analysis of a Typical Road Section: Kintampo - New Kadelso (76 Ke)
(Oase Case)
Noreal           6enerated              Total
Econ.          Vehic. Operat.    Vehic. Operat.   Vehic. Operat.                Net
Year     Costs          Cost  Savings        Cost  Savings       Cost  Savings        Benefits
_998     2,989-0                                      0                   0            --2,9---
1988     2,988                    0                   0                   0             (2,988)
1989     2,988                    0                   0                   0             12,988)
1990     2,987                    0                   0                   0             (2,987)
1991          0              3,773                   64               3,837              3,837
1992          0              3,893                   75               3,968              3,968
1993          0              3,983                   84               4,067              4,067
1994          0              4,076                   95               4,171              4,171
1995       391               4,170                  107               4,277              3,886
1996       391               4,267                  120               4,387              3,996
1997          0              4,387                  136               4,523              4,523
1998          0              4,494                  146               4,640              4,640
199           0              4,605                  158               4,763              4,763
2000     2,423               4,717                  170               4,897              2,464
2001     2,423               4,833                  183               5,016              2,593
2002          0              4,947                  194               5,141              5,141
2003          0              5,068                  205               5,273              5,273
2004          0              5,192                  216               5,408              5,408
2005       389               5,320                  228               5,548              5,159
2006       389               5,287                  241               5,528              5,139
ERR:      32.6b
NOTE: Based on Feasibility study by Consultants, Kocks; Jan.'87
AF4IN
JULY 1987



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRMIISPRI RCEMUILIITAIIU PSOJECI
EDonoic Analysis of Railwy CmpeoSt
EstiatioN of Read  Trasport Casts
(Economic; June 2997 prices)
Average    Uit
Lead      Costs                      Tmtmaq/Pass"ers ('0001                                         oe-ke/Pamss-ka ('000)                               Total Vehicle Operating Cast CIO   Caisl
(by road)(Cots per       1990     1991      1992     2993      1994    I29             299       992      2992     2993     2994      19            19          2992       2992       993       2994       299
(kg) t) -ka or        ----      ----     ----      ----      ----     ----           ----     ----     ----      ----     ----      ----          ----        ----       ----      ----       ----
pass.-ka)
Central Railway Line
CKDa                           127         22.8       20        32       33        34       35        37         3,340    5,344    5,511    5,687    5,845    4,179           39,412      43,059   45,030    47,000       4,971      72,912
lTiaer                          221        15.3       10        25       20        20       20        20         2,210    3,315    4,420    4,420    4,420    4,420           33,813      50,720    U7,424    47,424    41,424       47,424
Others                           260       13.7        4         6       10        10        10       10           640       960    2,60      2,400    1,400    2,600          8 ,74      13,152    21,920    21,920    21,920       21,928
Lmoqase/Parcels                  70        13.7       12        25        25       15      12         17           840    2,050    1,050    2,050    1,120    2,290           11,500      14,385    14,385    24,385      5,344      14,303
Subtotal                                             46        be       78        79       82        84         7,030   20,469   12,581   12,741   12,9M    13,389           93,502    141,312   148,942   170,931   173,81    2178,714
Passoniers                     120          2.3      800    1,550    2,600    1,700    1,750    2,800          128,000  248,000  256,000  272,000  280,000  288,000          294,400    570,400   588,100   625,400    44,000    462,400
--- --- --- -- --- --- -- --- --- -- -- -  ---_  _  _   _ - --
TOTSL COSTS, Central Lime                                                                                                                                                    387,902     711,712   757,714   794,531   817,5M1    841,142
Eastern Rails, Line
CKOa                            255        11.8       20        48       50        54       55        58         5,100   12,240   12,750   13,770   14,025   24,790           40,280    2U,432   150,450  122,484   165,495    174,522
tiober                          242        15.3       12        30       40        40       40       40          2,904    7,240    9,480   *9,4 80    9,40    9,4O            44,431    111,078   246,104   24,104   245,104    148,104
Coast                           222        11.8        2        10       10        15       20        20           444    2,220    2,220    3,330    4,440    4,440            5,239      24,294    24,29      39,294    52,392      52,392
Pettoleum Products              234        17.1        10       20       80        80       80        80         2,340    4,720   18,880   18,880   18,880   18,880           40,354      80,712   322,848   322, 8      322,84     322,848
Others                          222        13.7        8        10       20        22       25        25         1,774    2,220    4,440    4,884    5,550    5,550           24,331      30,414    40,28   M4,922   71,035          74,035
Luqgage/Parcels                  39        13.7        13       30       32        32       33        35           507    1,170    1,248    1,248    1,287    1,365            4,944    12,029    17,098    17,09         17,U32     18,701
Subtotal                                              65       148      232       243      253       250        13,091   29,030   49,218   51,792   53,842   54,705          281,484    400,841   725,524   754,740   782,504    792,402
Passeaqers                       126        2.3    1,100    1,500    1,700    1,750    1,740    1,800          127,600  174,000  197,200  203,000  204,120  208,800          293,400    400,200   453,540  44,90   449,548    480,240
TOTAL COSTS, Eastern Line                                                                                                                                                    474,944   809,061 1,179,004 1,223,440 1,252,074  1,272,842               >
rtz
Source:   asaun  on Anonexs 4.9 to 4.11, and 8.5 in Consultants' (RITES) Economic Appraisal Report, DKc. 1929, apdated by lank staff (see Notes in bsnex attached).
(D
1t-Jul-87                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rt
File: CBRILIT
AF4IN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0x



- 174 -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                          Attachement 9
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Railway Investments
1. Central Line Rehabilitation
(Fioures in sillion cedis! mid-1987 prices)
base Case
Operating   Additional
Capital      Costs        Transship.           Total     Road        VOC      Total      NET
Year   Costs  (Incresental)        Costs              Costs  Inv.Sav.  Savings BENEFITS  BENEFIT
1988       315                                           315        128                 128      (187)
1989       518                                           518       128                  129      (390)
1990    1,005             171         8                1,183       128        388       516      (667)
1991       514            212        10                  736                  712       712        (24)
1992         0            2(18       12                  220                  758       758       538
1993         0            208        12                  220                  797       797       576
1994         0            2i1        12                  223                  818       818       594
1995        48            215        12                  275                  841       841       567
1996         0            336         12                 348                  841       841       494
1997         0            336        12                  348                  841       841       494
1998         0            336        12                  348                  841       841       494
1999         0            336         12                 348                  841       841       494
2000         0            336         12                 348                  841       B41       494
2001         0            336         12                 348                  841       841       494
2002         0            336         12                 348                  841       841       494
2003         0            336         12                 348                  841       841       494
2004       480            336         12                 828                  841       841         14
2005       560            336         12                 908                  841       841        (66)
2006         0            336         12                 348                  841       841       494
2007         0            336         12                 348                  841       841       494
2008         0            336         12                 348                  841       841       494
2009         0            336         12                 348                  841       841       494
2010      (960)           336         12                (612)                 841       841     1,454
ERR          27.641
AF4IN
JULY 1987



- 1 75 -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                            A         m     1
A ttach ment 1 0
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
EconolIc Analysis of Railway Investments
2. Eastern Line Rehabilitation
(Figures in million cedis, mid-1987 prices)
Base Case
Operatmnq    Additional
Capital       Costs        Transship.    Total       vOC        NET
Year   Costs   (Incresental)        Costs        Costs   Savinqs  BENEFIT
1988       410                                      410                 (410)
1999       762                                      762                 (762)
1990     1,304            252          20         1,576        475    (1,101)
1991       672            285          24           981        809      (172)
1992         0            321          26           347     1,179        832
1993         0            325          28           353     1,224        871
1994         0            329          30           359     1,252        893
1995        BO            338          32           450     1,273        B23
1996         0            529          32           561     1,273        712
1997         0            529          32           561     1,273        712
1998         0            529          32           561     1,273        712
1999         0            529          32           561     1,273        712
2000          0           529          32           561      1,273       712
2001          0           529          32           561      1,273       712
2002          0           529          32           561      1,273       712
2003          0           529          32           561      1,273       712
2004       480            529          32         1,041      1,273       232
2005       640             529         32         1,201      1.273         72
2006          0           529          32           561      1,273       712
2007          0           529          32           561      1,273       712
2008          0           529          32           561      1,273       712
2009          0           529          32           561      1,273       712
2010      (960o           529          32          (399)    1,273      1,672
ERR           22.40X
AF 4IN
JULY  1987



176  -
ANINEX 5
Attachment  11
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Railway Investeents
for the Western Line
(Figures in sillion cedis, aid-1987 prices)
Base Case
NET
Year    Costs            Benefits                       BENEFIT
1988      320                                               (320)
1989       b40                 128                          (512)
1990                           250                           250
1991                           250                           250
1992                           250                           250
1993                           250                           250
1994                           250                           250
1995                           250                           250
1996                           250                           250
1997                           250                           250
1998                           250                           250
1999                           250                           250
2000                           250                           250
ERR          25.021
AF 4 IN
JULY  1987



-  177  -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                Attachment 12
TRAN5PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Total Railway Investment
(Figures in million cedis, mid-1987 prices)
Base Case
Operating   Additional
Capital      Costs        Transship.   Total       Road       VOC       Total      NET
Yeir   Costs   (Incremental)       Costs       Costs  Inv.Sav.   Savings Benefits  BENEFIT
1988     1,045              0             0    1,045         128          0       128      l917i
1989     1,920              0             0     1,920        128       128        256    ll,664)
1990    2,309             422            28    2,759         128     1,112     1,240    (1,519)
1991     l,lOt            497            34     1,716          0    1,770      1,770         54
1992         0            529            38       567          0    2,186      2,186      1,620
1993         0            533            40       573          v    2,270      2,270      1,697
1994         0            540            42       582          0    2,320    2,320        1,738
1995       128            552            44       724          0    2,364  ~,364          1,639
1996         0            864            44       908          0    2,3;4      2,364      1,455
1997         0            864            44       408          0    2,3o4      2,364      1,455
1998         )            864            44       908         1)   2,364       2,364      1,455
1999         0            864            44       908          0    2.364      1,364      1,455
2000         0            864            44        908         0    2.364       2,364     1,455
2001         0            864            44        906         0    2,114       2,114     1,206
2002          )           864            44        906         u    2,114       2,114     1,206
2003         0            864            44        908         0    2,114       2,114     1,206
2004       96')           8W             44     1,868          0    2,114       2,114       246
2005     1,200            864            44    2,108           0    2,114      2,114          6
2064         0            864            44        908        f0    2,114       2,114     1,20o
2G07         0            864            44       908         0    2.114    2,114        1,2u6
20!08        'i           6+64           44        90a         0    2,114    2,114        1,206
2009         '!           864            44       R08          1    2,114      2,114      1,206
2010    '1.920)           864            44   1,012)          0    2,114      2,114      3,126
ERR           24.3i9
AF4IN
JULY 1987






IBRD 20609
30                              2°                             I                               0o                              10                                2°
BU RK I NA                         F A S O                                     uu__
/7'   '    ~~P.lin,ok-n                                                      1
11* Tunno                                           Nonrongo     N                Tel,                                0G   H  A   N   A
Ctuslgo  GAANGAI~                   TRANSPORT REHABILITATION
',oors                                             I+EGION                               - No dur,,                    PROJECT
UPPER WEST   \Go6o                                                                          REHABILITATION OF MAIN
REGION                  fW1                                                                ROADS AND BRIDGES
|~~~~    ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~     ~      ~~~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   0  uoiNoi   , %/
_1OO         g       %, WA                                                  , igu               '-,/          /                                Roads,                    100
Korogo                     /                  '       Transport Rehabilitation
~~ Gustoiege  ~~~~~~~~Project
Road Rehabilitation and
(  ,   - Saboob                Maintenance Project
(On-Going)
NORTHERN   D.                               'REPrimary Roads
Tole /         E                                                            Major Secondary Roads
.) ( ( Yipbb ;                           -                                       A ! Other Secondary Roads
KwCh,nch     i                         /                /            Chombulg.          )        Zugu                           Bridges
(TEhoreht                             ,      p       e Oo, oa                                                                     Bridge Rehabilitation:
-9°                       80 '                                                                                                               Transport Rehabilitatiorn  9'
P.,.i;c                               ~~~~~~~~~roject
B.,r: a Morno;|t                           Road Rehabilitation and
B.ip.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Maintenance Project
+  \   3uipe<D ,-* <                                 /      >    \                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(On-Going)
COTE    \ X \                           ~    /                  i                                    f \  X .                                 Ports
.   \    \   )   I   ./   Sologo   j  \Kov >D-          Railroads
D' IVOIRE   \                                                                                                                           (D )  L  1Sh.  ®    Region Headquarters
Bobotu~~~~~~~~    ~ ~ ~   Mokongo                                          *~~~~~~~~~    National Capital
5J 11 50mbol i / ~V~ 5~\ oi l / Region Boundaries
80              Sompo                       .  Kintanpa        I                                                                               International Boundaries
Periodic Maintenance Program financed
/   eioniho   8^ku         t              k Xan Nk                                       Wo-W                     under the Transport Rehabilitation
Bs,nto Bk.           on                                                                                      Project will be mainly concentrated in
Western, Central, Eastern, Ashanti, and
gLor,eo    SUNYANI *<                                                             -                                          Brong-Ahota Regions.
D.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
60.  WEETER                                                                                                          S Suum\ o
7 E nchikNT7 A                                                              /                 ,,  Osudols     t
Bib RGO uREw ION    l\
,    Nkwonto   /   \         I _O /    \                                                               ut.
~~~~~~~~~~~o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~         ~ r --o adab        E, T N,    kosP kOAST
- °   J"i  ~~~~~~~  A  <,   \ AJSEKONDI~~~~~~                                            1,0 11   0  3,0  41° 5,0  MILES                      5 5
E      ' RN                                                                                             la 0    20   40  0   80  KILOMETERS
ThNN np hee been prere by The et B3n's t  muttietlor the cen'e   ot
thet readetr. end is tr cuh,sh'et tor the ,ntemalr us ol rTh thbtAd Batnk and the thttn7 tthnal
-                       -t'oonne Co,porahon The denondstons ued oeno the boundrehea sheevn ont thet seep dot not
oney, on thet part ol The V.'o,d Batnk and the hternehionat Fk,ence Corpnr tlon, any judgment
on thetee etsu tuC ol any trnitsoy or any sndoneemeet or eccrptsnce ot slucht bouuedahee
-5-   Jewi                                                                                            1,0   ~~~~~O  3,0   ~~~O  MILES 0  0  i
3°20   40   60             KILOME             JL   18S
JULY 1 987






BURKINA                                                                                                                                                           0
FASO                                                                                                                                                                              ed    p's !he4bv
O    U G    H  A N A                                         a N  hEne,haw,seo,Th,W,,dBah
>        ,                 T O | ra AXAA X52 01 KuM a      ss g  E                                          0.!    c
ToJCrAX4K AC                                0
"I=u                 - .  -  -  .                            
Awr      0I                                                                                                                    o                         fEKSO#
I\                     KUMASI SRAA^C  Obuasi                                                                                                                Trw WhhdhKMAI
t ~~~~~~ ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 72m Edaeee              3                       Kad Jium
Lakeroadn '                  co                  Takro9<                                           K
Mpeasa ShoKas                        ^.
o Map                                Old Eduadk,                                           0
AC  ASubri              C      E  o      gEdu
ACCbr      RAcin  Krnil  Dmn                                                                                                                 CR
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  bekwa;    o                                                                            A
Akrokerrl                                                                  Wineb
PJIE5WEA 118AC  ,    Old AboAKOSOMso
Awaso                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 DAM SITE
AWASO BRAAICII EduaneeeKade                                                                                          0ump
/                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kusi
MaudKokotent                                                                        Takrowase                                          Koforidua
an  usm                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soabe                                  Kentenkiren
6'                ~~~~Domenasl                                                             eci       X.EBStf~soa
Wompam   T'o                                                                                                .6Mangoae                                         6
AwisaBosairr
Mpeasa                                               Achiasti
Bu abinACHIASI Jun tn                                                                                  Bawkrom
TAKORAD                Ral ayLa y      E                      in
lmbr                                                             E ~~~~~~m.Nsawam
~~*;  ~~5~~O        -E*"'~      c          Pa Pase
Opo       00    2      0    40 5                             etr   ie<i                            ainlCptl:
_     E 2_KOTOKU Junction                                                            T       AC
Opon Valley  ,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   ~~~                                           Amasaman~~'0  T ACRA                   Kin M   To Acdmew_P
Gyimakir..,         044L~ *,.,ot                                                                           Dome             TEM A
Pemes                   s W  Aaasa                                                                            Ahmt                  spohn
I n:ruSapon  se.@Achmot
Insu   (  Ateikuo  ~~~ ~   .~  L    E                                                           Odaw  Stn.,  Achlmots  eo
Ankobra Jucto        Kurant,    *Damang             2       1                                                                                  ACCRA
Prestea    Awudua        UNI VALLEY  T4 Takorvdi
kers Brigade                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Winneba
PRESTEA i8AANCH H-                  Od Aboso                                                                            0
2*2 KO       Akontane
Nsuta             5"5 K4fl                                 Saltpondo                                                     
Esu Be                                               ~~~~~~FIRST RAILWAY REHABI LITATION PROJ ECT
Amanii                   ~ ~~Cape Coasto                                       (Completion: December, 1987)
5'     to Seko,,~~~S44 ~~.-KojAnr       Loain.                                            Complete Track Renewal         0      Toywns and Villages
'rolrakwa*1461Cm    Adelm                                     ~~~~~~~Sleeper Renewal          0      Villages Without Rood Access
Effia Nkwa  KONDI                                 ~~~~~~~New Signalling and       +      Railroad Halts                                        -
0  Axim  BU                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Telecommunications 
AK ADi TAt                                        Raila  Lines:Diesel Locomotive Depots
Central tine                          Diesel Locomotive and Railing Stock Workshops-
Rivers
0     10   20    30    40    50                        Western Line 
KIOEESEatr  ieW                                                                 National Capital
2'                           KIOETR                                       Eser  In nternationtal Boundaries
'a                                                                                                                                                  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1






-   -          °         rt -             -                                                                                                                                                 O 'EepaE'  ,&*b*,   EXW      -|
FASO
G   t- 'ICA                                     Edan                                                         0       a°                                     OI                   Lhtudri
v     -,i-, U.> .0eka 0                                               5O   ^   ,o4
o'   To ACCRA 300Km.                  -FE~O~~Otl
oTka5Kc\Old Kumasi  L    Lo  *                                                         O         ,;P
E                       .0
/co                             o    oL oke
Lakeroadr                                        U                                                                                              W  OAM S
Old Eclualn
A          ~ 728 Km      EduayEduadln                                                   KaVota
6°~ ~~S                   N k4  W                                                         ws  ;4a           XoK                           Oar 
ACKuant t, *faa9                          z                                                                                             CR
~~~~~                              Be~~~~~~~~~~~kwal                                                            ,   t
Kednsere
Akrokerri                                                        ~>joQB
AwasoEA iR^~DAM SITE
WASOBRANCH    Obuasi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\0jumapo
2R22m Knt        EduaneyedeoKade
Arik Mau  Akrotoum    ~       ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ KsI\ 0Koforidua
Anan  Kokotenten                                         ~~~~Takrowas                                       V,. Kentenkiren
WenchN      KA65  BRANCH                       / G   A
Ma o400 Ktm                                                                                               /oMangoase 6r                                         -
Wompam       DUNKWA A+,0                                                -        C     - Rnw        °      Townsonl
Effia NkwaTafOSEOD                                     ~         NwSgaln   n akw                        ROailroaHlt
Buab imACHIASI Junctio y                                                                                   wr D l om
To Hu" i Va'ie                  >~' 2Eo-a                       saa
lmbrairt 2°                                                   0 116.8Km.   U_                           Nsawam
j  E                   0             __---b-K(3L'0~~~~KU Junction           TEMA BRANCH
0 0 C. E                                3       95o ACCRA                    23.6 Km. 7ToAchimota
fw~~~~~~'I ~~~~~~                     oi ~~~~~Amaamnafn-~~ Km
~~ cE ~co   >                           ~~Domo                                                TEMA
Gyimakrom                                             U-                                                                                Asoproc hona
Pemeso     E                                                                       ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Achimota  Bthn
insu                   __*          -5        E                                                             Odaw  StnI. ClAchlmota Depot
Ankobra Junction      Kuat    Oaan                                                                                                                 CR
Prestea     Awda        HN   ALEY  ro Tokcraod
88.4 K-.
gade                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Winneba
PRESTEA       R NC-OdAbo
212 Km       Akontanse       Aoe
N'uta  616 Km                                Saltpondo                                     G       A N             A
Esu BenCap                                                    TRANSPORT REHABI LITATION PROJ ECT
Aman                      ape oas0                                               RAIL COMPONENT
Ma                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed Project-
5-          ~~To SVk00di 4.4 Kn..-~Kaojro     Location                                      -    Complete Track Renewal          0      TwsadVlae
To TakoAl" ItA0 Kmt  Adelmbr                                                          Sleeper Renewol                *      Vtllaiges Without Road Access
Effia NkwBnt      '-SEKONDI                                          New Signalling and              +      Railroad Halts                                        5 
0  Axim                                                                                  TelecommuniCations                   Diesel Locomotive Depots
TAKORADI 19 K                                          Ralwa   ins                            Diesel Locomotive and Rolling Stock Workshops
Central Line
0  ~~~0 ~~0    30    40    50 ~~~~~Western Line                          (J     National CapitalRes
z                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                         Eastern Line                           International Boundaries                                 0-
CD                             ' 
'41                                                  I                                                                                                  14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






