Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1858 GH
                (Transport Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                     GHANA RAILWAY CORPORATION
                      Dated February 18, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  February  18,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the   Association)  and  GHANA  RAILWAY
CORPORATION (GRC).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Development  Credit  Agreement  of even
date herewith between  Republic  of  Ghana  (the Borrower) and the
Association, the  Association  has  agreed  to  make  available to
the Borrower an amount in  various currencies equivalent to forty-
six  million  nine   hundred   thousand   Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 46,900,000) on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that GRC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  GRC  (the GRC Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
part  of  the  proceeds  of  the  credit  provided  for  under the
Development Credit Agreement will be  made available to GRC on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the  GRC  Subsidiary  Loan
Page  2
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS GRC, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, whenever
used  in  this  Agreement,  the   several  terms  defined  in  the
Development Credit Agreement, the  Preamble  to this Agreement and
in the General  Conditions  (as  so  defined)  have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  GRC   declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement  and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
Part B of the Project  with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and railway management practices,  and  shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as  needed,  the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
     (b)  No later than one month  before  the start of each year,
GRC shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Association  annual and
quarterly estimates of project expenditures, and no later than one
month before the start  of  each  quarter  of  the year, GRC shall
furnish to the Association data and other information updating the
said annual and quarterly estimates.
     (c)  Deposits into, and payments  out of, the Special Account
to be maintained  for  Part  B  of  the  Project  shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. GRC shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part B of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  GRC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the GRC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, GRC shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving  the  GRC  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any  provision
thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) GRC shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange  views  with  the  Association  with  regard to the
progress of Part B of the  Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under  this  Agreement  and  under  the  GRC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and  other  matters  relating  to  the  purposes of the
Credit.
     (b)  GRC  shall  promptly  inform   the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Part B of the  Project, the accomplishment of the pur-
Page  3
poses of the Credit, or the  performance by GRC of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the GRC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of GRC
     Section 3.01. GRC shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering and railway management practices under the supervision
of qualified  and  experienced  management  assisted  by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. GRC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
transportation practices.
     Section 3.03. GRC shall take  out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Associa-
tion for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  GRC  shall  maintain  separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  GRC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year,  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account  were  made  for Part B of the
Project on the basis of statements of expenditures, GRC shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with sound  accounting  practices, separate records
               and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
Page  4
     (b)  GRC shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for Part B  of the Project for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of such year the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association   shall   have   reasonably  requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  Without limitation  or  restriction  on  its obligations
under Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, GRC shall furnish to the
Association no later than June 30, 1988, certified copies of GRC's
audited financial statements for fiscal year 1986.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, GRC shall maintain, for each  of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31,  1987, a ratio of total working
expenses  to  total  operating   revenues   not  higher  than  the
percentages specified below  in  respect  of  the following fiscal
years:
          (i)  140% in fiscal year 1988;
         (ii)  135% in fiscal year 1989;
        (iii)  115% in fiscal year 1990;
         (iv)  93% in fiscal year 1991;
          (v)  86% in fiscal year 1992;
         (vi)  81% in fiscal year 1993;
        (vii)  80% in fiscal year 1994; and
       (viii)  76% in fiscal year  1995  and each following fiscal
               year.
     (b)  Before May 31 in each of its fiscal years, GRC shall, on
the basis of forecasts  prepared  by  GRC  and satisfactory to the
Association, ascertain whether it  would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) of  this  Section  in respect of such year.
Before October 31 in each  of  its  fiscal years, GRC shall on the
basis of the said forecasts,  ascertain  whether it would meet the
said requirements in respect  of  the  next following fiscal year.
GRC shall furnish  to  the  Association  the  results of each such
review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  GRC  would not meet the
requirements set forth in said paragraph (a) for GRC's fiscal year
covered by  the  review,  GRC  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures (including adjustments of the  structure or levels of its
tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
Page  5
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "total   working   expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in  lieu  of  taxes,  but  excluding  provision for
               depreciation  and  interest  and  other  charges on
               debt.
         (ii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, GRC shall not, as from fiscal year 1994, incur any debt, if
after the incurrence of  such  debt  the  ratio  of debt to equity
shall be greater than 50 to 50.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of GRC
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The term "equity" means  the  sum  of the total un-
               impaired  paid-up  capital,  retained  earnings and
               reserves of  GRC  not  allocated  to cover specific
               liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.05. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, GRC shall not incur  any  debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures  of  GRC shows that the estimated
net revenues of GRC for  each  fiscal  year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.4 times the estimated debt
service requirements of  GRC  in  such  year  on  all  debt of GRC
including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of GRC
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
Page  6
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including       administration,       adequate
                    maintenance, taxes  and  payments  in  lieu of
                    taxes,    but    excluding    provision    for
                    depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of taxes, incurred in  the generation of reve-
                    nues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by  GRC  not  earlier  than  twelve months
               prior to the  incurrence  of  the debt in question,
               which  both  the  Association  and  GRC  accept  as
               reasonable and  as  to  which  the  Association has
               notified GRC of its acceptability, provided that no
               event has  occurred  since  such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material  adverse  effect  on the financial
               condition  or  future   operating  results  of  the
               Association.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.06. GRC  shall  observe  the financial, operational
and traffic targets  set  out  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement,
subject to such modifications as GRC and the Association may agree
from time to time.
     Section 4.07.  (a)  GRC  shall:  (i)  as  from  1989 make any
adjustments  required  in  its  tariffs   in  order  to  meet  its
obligations under Sections 4.03,  4.04  and 4.05 of this Agreement
in respect of a fiscal year no  later than January 1 of such year;
(ii) put into effect a  cost accounting system satisfactory to the
Association by September 30,  1988;  and  (iii) thereafter, on the
basis of the costs of  services  and market conditions, revise, as
necessary,  its  tariff  structure  to  the  satisfaction  of  the
Association.
     (b)  GRC shall no later than  May  31  and October 31 of each
year  furnish  to  the  Association  as  from  October  31,  1988,
semiannually: (i) GRC's investment plan, financial projections and
monitoring targets  for  the  current  fiscal  year  and  the next
following three fiscal years, together  with an explanation of any
failure or  inability  on  the  part  of  GRC  to  attain the said
targets; and (ii) details of any  measures GRC proposes to take in
order to attain the performance  and financial targets required by
this Agreement.
Page  7
     Section 4.08. GRC shall: (i) not later than January 31, 1988,
review and update  the  current  valuation  of its renewable fixed
assets; (ii) thereafter revalue such assets annually by indexation
according to procedures  or  formula  satisfactory  to GRC and the
Association; and (iii) take a physical inventory annually whenever
the Association or GRC shall consider it necessary.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of GRC  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
GRC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For GRC:
          The Managing Director
          Ghana Railway Corporation
          Post Box 251
          Takoradi
          Ghana
Page  8
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                RAILCHIEF                      2437 RAILTK
                Takoradi, Ghana
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted  to be executed under this
Agreement on behalf of GRC,  or  by  GRC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by the Managing Director or  such  other  person or persons as GRC
shall  designate  in  writing,  and   GRC  shall  furnish  to  the
Association  sufficient  evidence   of   the   authority  and  the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    GHANA RAILWAY CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                        Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Category"  means  Category  (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $600,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account  for  Part  B of the Project pur-
suant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  9
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a  request  or requests by GRC acting on
behalf of the Borrower for a  deposit  or deposits which add up to
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special  Account  such amount or amounts as GRC
shall have requested.
     (b)  GRC  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  requests  for
replenishment of the  Special  Account  at  such  intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures;  provided  that  the  Association  may  refrain from
making deposits into the Special Account for Part B of the Project
upon failure by the Borrower to  make for a period longer than one
month any of the payments  required  under Section 3.01 (b) (i) of
the Development  Credit  Agreement.  All  such  deposits  shall be
withdrawn by the  Association  from  the  Credit Account under the
eligible Category, and  in  the  respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified  by  the evidence supporting the request
for  such  deposit  furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by  GRC  out of the Special Account for
which GRC requests replenishment  pursuant  to  paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, GRC shall furnish  to  the Association, prior to or
at the time of such request,  such and other evidence as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably  request,  showing  that such payment was
made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be made by GRC acting on
               behalf of  the  Borrower  directly  from the Credit
               Account  in  accordance   with  the  provisions  of
               Article V of  the  General Conditions and paragraph
               (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Category  less the amount of
               any outstanding special  commitment entered into by
               the Association  pursuant  to  Section  5.02 of the
               General Conditions with  respect  to  Part B of the
               Project, shall be equal  to an amount equivalent to
               twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Category shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to GRC.  Such  further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Association shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence furn-
ished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  GRC shall,
Page  10
promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so  eligible  or justified. No further deposit
by the Association into  the  Special  Account shall be made until
GRC has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, GRC
shall, promptly upon notice  from  the  Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding  amount  for  crediting to the Credit
Account.
SCHEDULE 2 
FILE ON A SEPARATE DOCUMENT
