Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1858 GH
                (Transport Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 18, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1858 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  February  18,  1988,  between   REPUBLIC OF
GHANA (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  Part B of the Project  will  be carried out by the Ghana
Railway Corporation (GRC) with  the  Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the  Borrower  will make available to GRC
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (2) in Schedule 1
to this  Agreement  under  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement (the GRC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and GRC, as hereinafter provided;
     (C)  Part D (1) of  the  Project  will  be carried out by the
Borrower through the Bank of  Ghana  (BOG) and the Social Security
Bank Limited (SSB) with the  Borrower's assistance and, as part of
Page  2
such assistance,  the  Borrower  will  make  available  to BOG for
relending to SSB the proceeds  of the Credit allocated to Category
(4) (a), (b) and (c) (i)  in  Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a
subsidiary loan agreement (the  SSB  Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between BOG and SSB, as hereinafter provided;
     (D)  Part C (4) of  the  Project  will  be carried out by the
Borrower through the Accra  Technical  Training Centre (ATTC), the
Kumasi Training Institute (KTI),  the National Vocational Training
Institute (NVTI) and  the  Management Development and Productivity
Institute (MDPI), all with the Borrower's assistance, and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ATTC, KTI,
NVTI and MDPI the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (3)
(c) (ii) in Schedule  1  to  this Agreement under grant agreements
(the Grant Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and
ATTC, KTI, NVTI and MDPI, as hereinafter provided;
     (E)  Part D (2) of  the  Project  will  be carried out by the
Technology Consultancy Centre (TCC) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such  assistance, the Borrower will make available
to TCC the proceeds of  the  Credit  allocated to Category (4) (c)
(ii) in Schedule 1 to  this  Agreement under an agreement (the TCC
Agreement) to be entered  into  between  the  Borrower and TCC, as
hereinafter provided;
     (F)  The Borrower has  requested  a  loan from the Government
of Japan (the  Japanese  Loan)  in  an  amount equivalent to about
$48,000,000 to assist in financing  Part  A  of the Project on the
terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement (the Japanese
Loan Agreement) to be  entered  into  between the Borrower and the
Government of Japan;
     (G)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the Government of
Canada a grant (the CIDA  Grant)  in an amount equivalent to about
$2,800,000 to assist in  financing  Part  B  of the Project on the
terms and conditions to  be  set  forth  in an agreement (the CIDA
Grant Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between  the Borrower and
Canada;
     (H)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the Government of
Italy financing (the Italian Financing) in an amount equivalent to
about $30,000,000 to assist in financing  Part B of the Project on
the terms and conditions  to  be  set  forth  in an agreement (the
Italian  Financing  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between the
Borrower and the Government of Italy.
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and GRC;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and GRC of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
Page  3
     (b)  "GRC" means  the  Ghana  Railway Corporation established
and operating under the Ghana Railway Corporation Decree, 1977, as
amended from time to time;
     (c)  "GRC Subsidiary Loan  Agreement"  means the agreement to
be entered into between the  Borrower  and GRC pursuant to Section
3.O1 (d) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such  term  includes  all  schedules  to the GRC Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "SSB Subsidiary Loan  Agreement"  means the agreement to
be entered into between BOG  and  SSB pursuant to Section 3.01 (e)
of this Agreement, as the same  may  be amended from time to time,
and such term includes  all  schedules  to the SSB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (e)  "Subsidiary Loan  Agreements"  means  the GRC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the SSB Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (f)  "Grant Agreements" means  the  agreements referred to in
Recital (D) and Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement;
     (g)  "TCC  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  referred  to in
Recital E and Section 3.01 (g) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Project  Executing  Agencies"  means  with  respect to:
(i) Part A of  the  Project,  the  Ministry  of Roads and Highways
(MRH) acting through  the  Ghana  Highway  Authority (GHA) and the
Department  of  Feeder  Roads   (DFR),  assisted  by  the  Project
Management Unit (PMU); (ii) Part  C  (1)  to C (3) of the Project,
the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) assisted in the
case of Part C  (2)  of  the  Project  by the Ghana Civil Aviation
Authority (GCAA); (iii) Part C (4) of the Project, MTC, ATTC, KTI,
NVTI and MDPI assisted  in  the  case  of  Part  C  (4) (A) of the
Project by GCAA; (iv)  Part  D  (1)  of  the Project, BOG and SSB;
(v) Part D (2)  of  the  Project,  TCC  assisted  by the Bureau of
Integrated Rural Development (BIRD) and Ghana Regional Appropriate
Technology Industrial Services (GRATIS),  and  (vi)  Part E of the
Project, Office of the Chairman of Committee of Secretaries;
     (i)  "Statement of Lending  Policies  and Procedures" means a
statement of lending policies  and  procedures satisfactory to the
Association  and  the  Borrower  as  approved  by  SSB's  Board of
Directors;
     (j)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (k)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters  dated  April  23, 1987 and May 11, 1987
between the Borrower and the Association;
     (l)  "Road  Maintenance  Accounts"  means  the  GHA  and  DFR
accounts referred to  in  Part  A.3  (ii)  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement; and
     (m)  "Road Fund" means the Road  Fund referred to in Part A.3
(i) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to  forty-six  million  nine  hundred  thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 46,900,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
Page  4
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  four special accounts in commercial
banks on terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of: (A) the three Special Accounts
to be respectively maintained for (i)  Part A; (ii) Parts C, D (1)
(b) and D (2); and  (iii)  Parts  D  (1)  (a) and E of the Project
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement; and (B) the  Special  Account to be maintained for
Part B  of  the  Project  shall  be  made  in  accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized  amount of the Project Prep-
aration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1994, or
such later date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments  payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing  May  1,  1998,  and  ending  November  1,  2027.  Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
November 1, 2007,  shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Page  5
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. GRC with respect  to  Part B of the Project and
BOG with respect to Part  D  (1)  of the Project are designated as
representatives of the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.O2  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry  out Parts A, C, D and E
of the Project  through  the  Project  Executing Agencies with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,   financial,    engineering   and   transportation
practices. The Borrower  shall  provide,  promptly  as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations  under  the  Development  Credit  Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause GRC to  perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement  all the obligations of GRC therein
set forth, shall take and cause  to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds,  facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate  to  enable  GRC  to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or  permit  to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with  such performance. The funds to be
provided by the Borrower  pursuant  to this Section shall include:
(i) funds covering GRC's  share  of required counterpart funds for
capital expenditures for each quarter  of  the  year to be paid to
GRC by the Borrower before  the  end  of each quarter; (ii) opera-
tional subsidies; (iii)  a  subvention  for  bauxite and manganese
traffic where, and to the  extent,  mining companies are unable to
pay to GRC adequate  freight  to  cover  GRC's  costs; and (iv) an
annual  foreign  exchange  provision  to  GRC  of  not  less  than
$1,500,000 equivalent to be  used  by  GRC for purchase of railway
spare parts during  the  period  1988  through  1992, said foreign
exchange provision to be  made  in  three installments of 40%, 30%
and 30% each year on January  1,  April 1 and October 1 during the
said period.
     (c)  The Borrower shall maintain  PMU  and MTC's Planning and
Implementation Division (PID)  in  a  form  and with functions and
staffing satisfactory to the Association.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  relend  to  GRC  the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Category (2)  in  Schedule 1 to this Agreement
under the GRC Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement the terms and conditions
of which shall  have  been  approved  by  the Association. The GRC
Page  6
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  shall  include  provisions requiring:
(i) repayment of  principal  in  20  years  (including  7 years of
grace); (ii) interest of not less than 8% per annum; and (iii) the
assumption of any foreign exchange risk by GRC.
     (e)  The  Borrower  shall  through  BOG  relend  to  SSB  the
proceeds of the  Credit  allocated  to  Category  (4) (a), (b) and
(c) (i) in Schedule 1  to  this Agreement under the SSB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement the terms and  conditions  of which shall have been
approved by the  Association.  The  SSB  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
shall include provisions requiring: (i) the carrying out by SSB of
Part D (1) of  the  Project  in  accordance  with the Statement of
Lending  Policies  and  Procedures;   (ii)  repayment  by  SSB  of
principal in not less than 12  years (including 3 years of grace);
(iii) annual  interest  payable  by  SSB  of  not  less than BOG's
lending rate;  and  (iv)  SSB  to  enter  into sub-loan agreements
satisfactory to  the  Association  with  participants  in programs
included in Part D (1) of the Project, the terms and conditions of
which shall require (A) repayment of  principal in not more than 8
years (including 3 years  of  grace),  (B)  annual interest of not
less than the prevailing  commercial  rate,  and (C) assumption by
the Borrower of any foreign exchange risk.
     (f)  The Borrower shall under  the Grant Agreements the terms
and  conditions  of  which   shall   have  been  approved  by  the
Association make  available  to    ATTC,  KTI,  NVTI  and MDPI, as
grants, the proceeds of the  Credit  allocated to Category (3) (c)
(ii) in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (g)  The Borrower shall under the TCC Agreement the terms and
conditions of which shall  have  been  approved by the Association
make available to TCC,  as  a  grant,  the  proceeds of the Credit
allocated  to  Category  (4)  (c)  (ii)  in  Schedule  1  to  this
Agreement.
     (h)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements, the  Grant  Agreements and the TCC Agree-
ment in such manner as  to  protect  the interests of the Borrower
and the Association and to  accomplish the purposes of the Credit,
and except as the Association  shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, the  Grant  Agreements  or  the  TCC  Agreement or any
provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  The  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the actions
described in Schedule 5 to  this  Agreement to the satisfaction of
the Association, said Schedule  being subject to modification from
time to time  by  agreement  between  the  Borrower  and the Asso-
ciation.
     Section  3.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Part B of the Project  shall be carried out by GRC pur-
suant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  7
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with sound  accounting  practices, separate records
               and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) (i)  of  this  Section  and those for the
               Special Accounts, the Road Maintenance Accounts and
               the Road Fund    for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year  the  report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  GRC shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make  it improbable that GRC will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  the Ghana Railway  Corporation  Decree, 1977, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed  or  waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the  ability of GRC to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of GRC or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  Pursuant to Section 6.02  (h) of the General Conditions,
the  following  additional  events  are  specified,  namely,  that
subject to paragraph (f) of this Section:
          (i)  the right of the  Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
               of any loan or grant  made  to the Borrower for the
Page  8
               financing of  the  Project  (including the Japanese
               Loan, the  CIDA  Grant  and  the Italian Financing)
               shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated,
               in whole or in part,  pursuant  to the terms of the
               agreement providing therefor, or
         (ii)  any such loan  shall  have  become  due and payable
               prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (f)  Paragraph (e) of  this  Section  shall  not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the  satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure  of  the  Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement;  and  (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the  Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent  with  the  obligations  of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the events specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01
(f) hereof.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely,  that  the  Borrower  has  paid  into the Road
Maintenance Accounts: (i)  not  less  than  70%  of  the funds the
Borrower has agreed to provide  to  GHA  and DFR for periodic road
maintenance during  1987;  and  (ii)  an  initial  amount of seven
hundred  million  Cedis  to  meet   the  estimated  cost  of  road
maintenance needs for the first quarter of 1988.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1. The  PNDC  Secretary  for  Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  ll.O3  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section ll.Ol of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          PNDC Secretary for Finance
            and Economic Planning
          Ministry of Finance and Economic
            Planning
          P.O. Box M40
Page  9
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECONOMICON                        2205 MIFAEP GH
               Accra
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                    By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Part A of the
     Project:
     (a)  Civil works under     20,520,000       100% of foreign
          Part A (1) (i)                         expenditures and
          and (ii) of the                        60% of local
          Project                                expenditures
     (b)  Bridge rehabi-         4,620,000       100% of foreign
          litation under                         expenditures
Page  10
          Part A (1) (iv)                        and 75% of
          of the Project                         local expendi-
                                                 tures
     (c)  Vehicles, equip-         390,000       100% of foreign
          ment and materials                     expenditures
          under Part A (1)                       for directly
          (i), (ii) and (iv)                     imported items
          of the Project                         and 85% for
                                                 locally pur-
                                                 chased items
     (d)  Consultants' ser-      3,440,000       100%
          vices, audit
          services, studies
          and training
          programs
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(2)  Part B of the
     Project:
     (a)  Vehicles,              3,990,000       100% of foreign
          equipment and                          expenditures for
          materials ex-                          directly imported
          cluding items                          items and 85%
          under Part B (1)                       for locally pur-
          (i) and (ii) of                        chased items
          the Project
     (b)  Consultants'           2,820,000       100%
          services,
          studies and
          training
          programs
(3)  Part C of the
     Project:
     (a)  Vehicles, equip-         740,000       100% of foreign
          ment and mate-                         expenditures
          rials                                  for directly
                                                 imported items
                                                 and 85% for
                                                 locally pur-
                                                 chased items
     (b)  Consultants'           1,180,000       100%
          services, audit
          services and
          studies
     (c)  Training programs:
          (i)  MTC and             630,000       100%
               GCAA
         (ii)  Others              630,000       100%
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Page  11
     (d)  Operating costs           40,000       90%
          and project
          related travel
          expenses
     (e)  Building works           240,000       90%
(4)  Part D of the
     Project:
     (a)  Office equip-             80,000       100% of foreign
          ment and mate-                         expenditures
          rials for SSB                          for directly
                                                 imported items
                                                 and 85% for
                                                 locally pur-
                                                 chased items
     (b)  Credit facility          860,000       100% of amounts
                                                 disbursed
     (c)  Consultants'
          services and
          studies:
          (i)  Part D (1)           80,000       100%
               (b) of the
               Project
          (ii) Part D (2)          240,000       100%
               of the
               Project
(5)  Part E of the                 700,000       100%
     Project:
     Consultants'
     services, studies
     and training
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Refunding of                1,110,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                 4,590,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                 46,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Page  12
Agreement;
     (b)  expenditures under Category (4)  (b) unless the SSB Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement has been duly signed;
     (c)  expenditures  under   Category   (2)   unless:  (i)  the
Association has been furnished with an opinion or opinions stating
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
GRC, and is legally binding upon GRC in accordance with its terms;
(ii) the  GRC  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been duly signed;
(iii)  the  Association  has  been  furnished  with  GRC's audited
financial statements for fiscal years  1983 through 1985; and (iv)
GRC has appointed a high level  expert  to be in charge of traffic
management, and commercial and marketing functions; and
     (d)  expenditures  of  a   project   executing  agency  under
Category (3) (c)  (ii)  unless  a  Grant  Agreement  has been duly
signed by that agency.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) better maintenance and
further rehabilitation of transport  infrastructure to remove phy-
sical bottlenecks to expanding  exports, farm production and labor
mobility; (ii) increasing transport  sector efficiency through the
promotion of  market-oriented  policies,  increased involvement of
the private  sector,  strengthening  of  transport sector institu-
tions, and improving productivity; (iii) improving rural transport
through the promotion of appropriate low cost technology; and (iv)
reducing transportation costs for goods and passengers.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
(1)  Road rehabilitation and maintenance program consisting of:
           (i)   regravelling  of  about  1,900  km,  resealing of
                 about  150  km,  resurfacing  and  improvement of
                 about 780 km of  trunk roads and regravelling and
                 resurfacing of about 1,800 km of feeder roads;
          (ii)   intensive routine maintenance of trunk and feeder
                 road networks;
         (iii)   rehabilitation of about 512 km of the Kumasi-Paga
                 road;
          (iv)   rehabilitation  and  reconstruction  of  about 20
                 priority bridges; and
           (v)   provision of audit services to GHA and DFR.
(2)  Strengthening of GHA in  field  supervision; assisting PMU in
supporting an expanded  road  rehabilitation  and maintenance work
program; strengthening of  DFR  in  in-house planning and contract
management;  training  programs  for   DFR  staff;  and  providing
institutional support for MRH, GHA and DFR.
(3)  Provision of  vehicles  for  use  by  GHA  and  DFR staff for
purposes of the rehabilitation and road maintenance program.
(4)  Provision of limited housing  (about  25 units) for DFR staff
(mainly field staff).
Part B:   Railway Rehabilitation
Page  13
(1)  Railway rehabilitation program consisting of: (i) rehabilita-
tion of weak  sections  of  the  Eastern  and Central lines track;
(ii) installation of an  improved signalling and telecommunication
system on the  Eastern  and  Central  lines track; (iii) provision
of  essential  equipment,  tools  and  materials  for  repairs and
maintenance on the Western line track and for GRC's workshops; and
(iv) overall system support including  provision of three new main
line locomotives and  20  oil  tank  wagons,  spare  parts for the
rehabilitation and repair of rolling stock, replacement of journal
bearings  of  about  200  old   wagons  by  roller  bearings,  and
replacement  of  overaged  and  obsolete  machine  tools  in GRC's
workshops with modern equipment.
(2)  Program to strengthen GRC's  management including measures to
improve the  management  of  GRC's  financial,  traffic, workshop,
engineering, commercial and marketing business and operations.
(3)  Program of  local  and  overseas  training  for  GRC's middle
management and senior staff and  training at GRC's training school
of lower level GRC staff.
Part C:   Transport Sector Institutions Support
(1)  Program to strengthen MTC including: (i) assistance to PID in
the exercise of MTC's  general  statutory supervising functions in
respect of transport parastatals,  in  particular, the exercise of
MTC's  financial  oversight  and  advisory  functions  and  imple-
mentation of transport policies and projects (not including Part A
of the Project) involving  MTC;  (ii)  assistance to PID in policy
formulation and transport planning including the preparation of an
organization and management study  of  MTC,  and sector policy and
project  evaluation  studies;  (iii)  the  provision  of essential
office equipment and office facilities (including building works);
and (iv) the provision of audit services.
(2)  Program to strengthen  GCAA  including  assistance to GCAA in
the formulation and carrying  out  of  financial and tariff policy
and cost recovery measures,  and  the  setting  up of a commercial
accounting system.
(3)  Road safety and traffic management program.
(4)  Training programs  including  (i)  courses  and  seminars for
(A) middle and upper level staff  of  MTC and GCAA in planning and
management skills, (B) officials  of private sector road transport
and garage associations  in  road  transport organization and road
management, and (C) small  garage  owners, mechanics and bus/truck
drivers in vehicles maintenance  and  road safety; (ii) a manpower
and  training  needs   study   for   the   transport  sector;  and
(iii) provision of training equipment, materials and vehicles.
Part D:   Road Transport and Low Cost Rural Transport Pilot
          Programs
(1)  (a)  Establishment of a  credit  facility  for  use by SSB to
finance on commercial  terms  and  conditions road transport pilot
programs including (i) the  purchase  of tools and small equipment
required by about 400 small  workshops  in the garage complexes at
Kumasi and Accra; (ii) the  establishment and operation of a spare
parts reclamation unit in  the  private sector; (iii) provision of
equipment to the private  sector  for license plate manufacturing;
(iv)  the  establishment  of  the  first  phase  of  a multi-modal
freight terminal in Kumasi to  be  operated by the private sector;
(v) commercial production and  assembly  of low cost, nonmotorized
transport vehicles; and  (vi)  such  other  pilot  programs as the
Borrower and the Association may agree.
     (b)  Improving SSB's capability  to handle small-scale credit
including provision to SSB  of  office  equipment and training for
staff of SSB; and provision, as necessary, of technical assistance
Page  14
to SSB and the other parties  involved  in carrying out Part D (1)
(a) of the Project.
(2)  Program to be carried  out  principally  by TCC to facilitate
low cost nonmotorized transport  including introduction for use in
rural areas and small towns  of: (i) small farm vehicles specially
designed for  production  and  use  in  Ghana,  and  (ii) bicycle-
trailers and other adaptations.
Part E:   Infrastructural Support
     Strengthening long-term infrastructural planning capabilities
of the Borrower's  National  Planning  Commission, including staff
training and the carrying out of necessary studies.
                           *   *   *   *
     This Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by December 31,
1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts A, C, D and E of  the  Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  the following
amounts to be withdrawn from  the  Credit Account and deposited in
the Special Accounts for Parts A,  C and D of the Project pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule as follows:
        (i)   for the Special Account  for  Part A of the Project,
              an amount equivalent to $2,500,000;
       (ii)   for the Special Account for  Parts  C, D (1) (b) and
              D  (2)  of  the  Project,  an  amount  equivalent to
              $300,000; and
      (iii)   for the Special Account for Part  D (1) (a) and E of
              the Project, an amount equivalent to $300,000.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of a  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a  request  or requests on behalf of the
Borrower for a deposit or  deposits  which add up to the aggregate
amount of the  Authorized  Allocation,  the  Association shall, on
behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account concerned such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of a  Special  Account  at such intervals as the
Page  15
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures;  provided  that  the  Association  may  refrain from
making deposits into the Special Account for Part A of the Project
upon failure by the Borrower to  make for a period longer than one
month any of  the  payments  for  road  maintenance required under
Part A (3) (ii) in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn  by  the  Association  from  the Credit Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of a Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the  Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when  either  of the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
               any outstanding special  commitment entered into by
               the Association  pursuant  to  Section  5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be equal to an amount equivalent to twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligi-
ble Categories shall  follow  such  procedures  as the Association
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the extent that the Association
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account  concerned  as  of the date of such
notice will be utilized  in  making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  a  Special  Account  (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount  outstanding  in  a  Special  Account  will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
Page  16
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   (a)  Bidders  for  roads   and   bridge   works  included  in
Part A (1) (i), (ii) and (iv) of the Project shall be prequalified
as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Goods  shall   be   exempted   from  pre-shipment  price
inspection by any third party inspection firm.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1. hereof,  goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1. hereof, the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost  an  amount  equivalent to $60,000 or
more but less than  $200,000  per  contract and works estimated to
cost less  than  $1,000,000  equivalent  per  contract,  up  to an
aggregate amount not exceeding $8,000,000 equivalent for works and
$500,000 equivalent for  goods,  may  be  procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods estimated  to  cost  less  that  $60,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,500,000 equi-
valent, may be procured  under  contracts  awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited  from  a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   With the prior agreement of  the Association and for the pur-
poses of  standardization,  additional  items  of  spare parts and
accessories compatible with existing  equipment, parts or accesso-
ries may be purchased,  subject  to  paragraph  5 of this Part, by
direct contracting from  the  original  supplier  of such existing
equipment, parts or accessories  in  accordance with paragraph 3.5
(b) of the Guidelines.
4.   Goods of a proprietary nature obtainable from one source may,
with the prior agreement of  the  Association and subject to para-
graph 5 of this Part, be  procured by direct contracting from that
source  in  accordance   with   procedures   satisfactory  to  the
Association.
5.   The additional items of spare parts and accessories and goods
of a proprietary nature to be procured under paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Page  17
this  Part  shall  not  exceed  in  the  aggregate  an  amount  of
$3,000,000 equivalent.
6.   Items relating  to  the  road  transport  and  low cost rural
transport pilot programs under Part  D of the Project estimated to
cost an amount equivalent to $300,000  or less per contract, up to
an aggregate amount  not  exceeding  $1,500,000 equivalent, may be
procured in accordance with standard commercial practices.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2. hereof, the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $200,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are  to  be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2  (d) of said Appendix shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of a Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are  to  be  made  out  of  a  Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to  the Association pursuant to paragraph
3 of said Appendix shall  be  furnished to the Association as part
of the  evidence  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4 of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  and GRC in carrying out the
Project, the  Borrower  and  GRC  shall  employ  consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be  selected  in   accordance   with   principles  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                Actions Required under Section 3.02
A.   Road Maintenance
1.   The Borrower shall  make  the following budgetary allocations
Page  18
for road maintenance during the  period 1988 through 1990: (i) not
less than $18 million equivalent for  1988; (ii) not less than $19
million equivalent for 1989; and  (iii)  not less than $25 million
equivalent for 1990, the said  amounts being expressed in mid-1987
prices.
2.   The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  one month
before the commencement of  each  quarter  of the year MRH's quar-
terly work programs and  estimates  of expenditures for road main-
tenance by contract.
3.   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the existing Road Fund at at
least its present funded  level;  and  (ii)  promptly pay into the
accounts established by  GHA  and  DFR  for road maintenance works
(the  Road  Maintenance  Accounts),  on  the  basis  of  quarterly
estimates of road  maintenance  needs:  (A)  accruals  to the Road
Fund, monthly in advance, and  (B) amounts allocated in the budget
for road maintenance, quarterly in advance.
4.   The  Borrower  shall:  (i)  by  June  30,  1988  (A)  appoint
consultants for  supervising  and  monitoring  the Borrower's road
maintenance program being undertaken  by  GHA, and (B) appoint and
assign to PID a  technical  advisor  (implementation); and (ii) by
March 31, 1988, appoint and assign to MTC a training adviser.
B.   Fuel Tax and Road User Charges
1.   The Borrower shall take the  necessary actions to ensure that
road users  adequately  bear  road  maintenance and rehabilitation
costs. To that  end  the  Borrower  shall:  (i)  by June 30, 1989:
(A) prepare and furnish to the Association for joint review by the
Association and the  Borrower  the  full  details of progress made
by  the  Borrower  in  increasing  the  level,  and  improving the
structure, of road user  charges;  (B)  prepare and furnish to the
Association an action plan (including a timetable) satisfactory to
the Association enabling the Borrower to achieve adequate recovery
of road user costs; and (ii)  by June 30, 1990, promptly carry out
the action plan in accordance with the said timetable.
C.   Road Transport Sector Study
     The Borrower shall: (i)  jointly  review with the Association
by January 31, 1988, the report of the Road Transport Sector Study
which it has prepared; (ii)  on  the  basis of the findings of the
Report, prepare and furnish  to  the  Association by September 30,
1988, an action program satisfactory to the Association, including
a timetable for carrying out the program; and (iii) promptly carry
out the action program in accordance with the said timetable.
D.   Performance Contract
     The Borrower shall  by  September  30,  1988, conclude a per-
formance contract with GRC the terms and conditions of which shall
assure GRC  adequate  autonomy  in  key  areas  of  its operations
including tariff setting and staff reduction.
E.   Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA)
     The Borrower shall: (i) by June 30, 1988, cause GCAA with the
help of accounting consultants to  be employed by the Borrower (A)
to complete a financial information study of GCAA; and (B) to draw
up the outline of  a  new  accounting  system which can be readily
developed into a commercial  accounting  system for GCAA; and (ii)
by December 31,  1989,  cause  GCAA  with  the  help of management
consultants  employed  by  the  Borrower  to  study  GCAA's tariff
structure  and  to  provide  a  cost  recovery  program  for  GCAA
satisfactory to the Association.
F.   Transport Policy Review Committee
     The Borrower shall by June 30, 1988, establish and thereafter
maintain a Transport Policy  Review Committee consisting of repre-
Page  19
sentatives of the  Borrower,  the  Chamber  of  Commerce and other
private transport agencies.  The  members  of  the Committee shall
meet at least every  quarter  to  review questions relating to the
improvement of transport  services,  the  transport market and its
operations.
G.   Public Investment Program and Annual Public Expenditure
     Program
     The Borrower shall: (i) until  1992 continue to hold with the
Association annual joint reviews  of its three-year public invest-
ment  program  and  annual  public  expenditures  programs  in the
transport sector; and (ii)  consult  the Association before under-
taking any new investment project  in the transport sector costing
more than $5 million  equivalent  and  not  included in the public
investment program or the annual public expenditures programs.
H.   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
1.   The Borrower shall by  March  31,  1988, furnish to the Asso-
ciation, a list of the  priority  road  sections to be included in
the Borrower's 1988 road rehabilitation and maintenance program.
2.   The Borrower shall adopt  economic criteria acceptable to the
Association (including a minimum  of  15% economic rate of return)
in the selection  of  road  sections  to  be  included in the road
rehabilitation and maintenance program.
3.   The Borrower  shall:  (i)  no  later  than  October 31, 1988,
prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and comments
details of (A) its 1989  road maintenance program, (B) a five-year
road maintenance and rehabilitation  strategy and program for 1989
through 1993, and (C) funding increases needed to finance the road
maintenance program; and (ii)  no  later  than  June 30, 1989, put
into operation a  management,  information  and  control system in
MRH, GHA and DFR satisfactory to the Association.
I.   Miscellaneous
1.   The Borrower shall furnish to  the Association for its review
and comments the details  of  the  program  of assistance which it
shall agree with  UNDP  to  support  transport sector institutions
participating in Part C  (1)  of  the Project including details of
the composition and time schedules established for the program.
2.   The Borrower shall employ  by  January  31, 1988, a qualified
accountant to assist MTC in carrying out its project functions.
3.   The Borrower shall  appoint  a  training  officer who will be
assigned as a counterpart to MTC's training adviser.
4.   The Borrower shall by  April  30,  1988, establish a Training
Steering Committee consisting  of  representatives of the training
institutes   participating   in   the   Project   and  beneficiary
organizations.
5.   The Borrower shall before the end  of the first month of each
quarter of the year provide  promptly,  as needed, the local funds
required by GHA, DFR  and  GRC  to meet their project expenditures
for the quarter.
6.   PMU  and  PID  shall  jointly  prepare  and  furnish  to  the
Association  consolidated  quarterly  reports,  based  on progress
reports, furnished by the Project  Executing Agencies. PMU and PID
shall also furnish to  the  Association  for its approval no later
than June 30, 1988, reporting  requirements and key indicators for
monitoring progress of the Project.
8.   MTC  shall,  additionally,   prepare   and   furnish  to  the
Association semiannual reports highlighting:  (i) progress made in
meeting  the  Borrower's  transport  sector  reform  measures; and
(ii)  general  policy  and  institutional  changes  affecting  the
Page  20
sector.
