Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10415-UG Type: (PCR)
NAMISATO, / X31678 / T9 105/ OEi)D2                    Report No. 10415
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
FIRST ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDITS 1844-UG AND A-34-UG)
MARCH 12, 1992
Country Operations
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Period          Currency Unit (annual average)
USh per USS          US$ per USh
1987/88            60                0.01667
1988/89           170                0.00589
1989/90           320                0.00313
1990/91           558                0.00179
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



THE WORLD BANK                FOR omcuu USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Officei 4 fft"DectmGenval
Operationm Evakhitmo
March 12. 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on UGANDA - First Economic
Recovery Credit (Credits 1844-UG and A-34-UG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Uganda - First Economic Recovery Credit (Credits 1844-UG and
A-34-UG)," prepared by the Uganda Resident Mission, with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise b* disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF          African Development Fund
AfDB         African Development Bank
BOU          Bank of Uganda
CIDA         Canadian Intemational Development Agency
CMB          Coffee Marketing Board
DANIDA       Danish Intemational Development Agency
EAU          Economic Analysis Unit
EEC          European Economic Community
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit
ERP          Economic Recovery Program
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Arrangement Facility
FEIL         Foreign Exchange and Import Licensing Committee
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
KfW          Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
VCs          Letters of Credit
LMB          Lint Marketing Board
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MPED         Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
MPSCA        Ministry of Public Service and Cabinet Affairs
NRM          National Resistance Movement
ODA          Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
QOL          Open General Licence
PCR          Project Completion Report
PES          Public Enterprise Secretariat
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PSRRC        Public Service Review and Reorganization Commission
PTA          Preferential Trade Area
RDP          Rehabilitation and Development Plan
SAF          Structural Adjustment Facility
SCF          Special Credit Facility
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SIDA         Swedish International Development Authority
SIP          Special Import Program
SPA          Special Program of Assistance
UCB          Uganda Commercial Bank
UDC          Uganda Dvelopment Corporation
USh          Uganda shilling
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COPIJET.JOE REPORT
FIRST ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDII
(CREDITS 1844UG AND A-34-UG)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ...........................................................   i
E'VALUATION SUMNMARY .                                                                    iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANKS PERSPECTIVE.                                        1
A. Project Identity.                                                                  1
B. Project Background ......1................                                         I
Economic and Political Developments Prior to ERC I.                         1
Bank Group Strategy and Economic and Sector Work.                           2
C The First Economic Recovery Credit.                                                 3
Origins and Objectives.                                                     3
Policy and Institutional Measures Supported by ERC I.                       4
Implementation and Monitoring of Measures Supported by ERC I                4
Evaluation of Performance ..........        .........................   10
Other Aspects of ERC I ............         .........................   13
Co-financing of ERP .............         ..........................   14
The Results of the ERP ............         .........................   14
D. The Main Lessons Learned ........................................   15
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..... ...  17
A. Background, Evolution and Development of the Program  .....         ............   17
B. Implementation of the Program  .....................................   17
C. Evaluation of the Program  .........................................   20
PART Im. STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .................................   23
Table 1  CreditPosition  ...........................................   23
Table 2  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  .................   23
Table3   Project Dates  ............................................   23
Table 4   Staff Inputs  .............         ................................   24
Table 5  Mission Data  ............................................   24
Table 6 Other Project Data ....................................  24



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Table 7  GDP at Factor Cost, 1985-1990, at Constant (1987) Prices  ........   ..   25
Table 8  GDP in Constant 1987 Prices - Percentage Annual Growth Rates    ....   26
Table 9  Production and Exports of Principal Agricultural Products  ... .......   27
Table 10 Production of Selected Goods   ............     ...................   28
Table 11 Index of Industrial Production   ...........................   29
Table 12 Balance of Payments         .................     .....................   30
Table 13 Ugan ia: Central Government Budgetary Operations,
1988/99-199091       ................... .......................   31
Table 14 Monetary Survey, 1987-1990  ........         .........................   32
Table 15 Structure of Interest Rates 1986-1990  ......... ..       ...............   33
Table 16 Exchange Rates              ..                       ............... 34
Table 17 Kampala Cost of Living Index Middle Income Group  ............       ..   35
Table 18 New Consumer Price Index: Kampala  ......... ..           ...............   36
Table 19 Average Market Prices for Selected Consumer Goods, Kampala  ...   37
Table 20 Producer Prices for Export Crops   .......... ..        ................   39
Table 21 Consumer Prices of Petroleum Products  ........ ..         ..............   40
Table 22 Disbursement of ERC 1 to 30 June 1991   ..........          .............   41
$1



I  -       RT~-1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
FIRST ECQ0NOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDITS 1844-UG AND A-34-UG)
PREFAC
1. This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Economic Recoveiy Credit
(ERC I) in Uganda, for which IDA Credit 1844-UG and African Facility Credit A-34-UG, in
the amounts of SDR 50.9 million and SDR 18.8 million respectively, weir  pp   d on
September 15, 1987. In the case of the IDA Credit the Board approved thr-    plements as
follows: SDR 1.3 million in Februaly 1989, SDR 19 million in April 1989 ana SDR 1.2 million
in November 1989. The Board approved a second tranche of SDR 10 million under the
African Facility Credit on December 18, 1989. The credits were fully disbursed; the last
disbursement was in August 1991. Nevertheless, the closing date was extended to June 30,   F
1992 in order to allow the Government more time to utilize small balances remaining on the
accounts in respect of funds provided by two of the co-financiers.
2. The PCR was prepared by the Uganda Resident Mission (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Part I and Part IIl and by the borrower (Part II).
3. Preparation of this PCR was based on, inter alia, the PresiJent's Report, the credit
agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and
internal Bank memoranda.



PROJECT COMPLION REPORT
UGANDA
FIRST ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDITS 1844-UG AND A-34-UG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
aclairound
f.      The Ugandan economy suffered massive damage throughout the 1970s owing
to mismanagement, political turmoil and civil war. Both the human capital and the physical
infrastructure were neglected, destroyed and alowed to decay. Producer incentives became
severely eroded. The outcome of this turn of events was a 20 percent decline in real GDP
during the 1970s. The situation changed for the better between 1981 and 1984 as the second
Obote regime introduced, with the support of the Bank, the Fund and other donors, a wide
range of policy reforms aimed at promoting economic recovery. However, before they had
had time to work, these efforts were overwhelmed by an intensified civil war which took a
heavy toil on human life and property, especiaDy in the Luwero triangle.
ii.     The National Resistance Movement (NRM) which assumed power at the end
of the civil war in January 1986 inherited an economy which was in ruins. The war had
disrupted crop production and marketing. The roads were in an acute state of disrepair; there
was a severe shortage of trucks and other transport equipment; manufacturing activity had
virtually ground to a halt; water and electric power supplies were at best erratic. Foreign
exchange reserves were depleted. Moreover, large parts of the north and east of the country
continued to be plagued by insecurity. In responding to these challenges the Government
initialy took an interventionist stance and adopted expausionary fiscal and monetary policies.
Notwithstanding tentative signs of economic recovery, the results of these policies were
disastrous, as evidenced by the sharp acceleration of inflation (to over 300 percent) and the
substantial deireciation of the Ugandan Shilling in the parallel market. It did not take the
Government long to realize that its interventionist approach to economic management had
failed. It then decided to try the market-oriented policies advocated by the Bank and the
Fund.
Objectives
iii.    The objectives of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) were to: bring about
internal financial stability and lower the rate of inflation; reduce the imbalances in the
external accounts; and promote growth. Given the severe imbalances in the economy the
program accorded high priority to stabilization. It also included structural measures aimed at
improving producer incentives, increasing capacity utilization in industry, improving the
allocation and use of public resources, raising the standard of public administration and
rehabilitating the infrastructure.



- iv-
liglementation Experience
iv.   The Government took a number of strong adjustment measures up-front (in
May 1987). These included the devaluation of the Shilling by 77 percent iP foreign
currency terms, hefty increases in the producer prices of export crops and big increases
in the pump prices of petroleum products. Other notable measures taken under ERC
I were the rapid dismantling of price and distribution controls, further large
devaluations of the Shilling, the introduction of a limited Open General License
(OGL) system of allocating foreign exchange, the creation of a Special Import
Program (SIP) for foreign exchange allocation on a first-come first-served basis and
the preparation of verified staff lists and a list of approved and filled positions which
would form the basis for an Establishment Register. Implementation was, however,
very disappointing in the area of stabilization: the fiscal deficit and monetary targets
were exceeded by a wide margin, resulting in accelerating inflation well into the
second half of 1988. Moreover, the nominal exchange rate was kept fixed for long
periods or adjusted only marginally. Weak ii plementation was a reflection of two
factors: a lack of the capacity to carry out some of the agreed actions an-- i..sufficient
understanding and commitment to the program.
v.    For its part, IDA szriously underestimated the extent to which the human
resource and data base as well as management systems in the public service had been
destroyed by years of political and military turmoil; hence some of the heavy demands
made on the Government (for example, IDAls expectations regarding the preparation
of a public investment program and the verification of the ownership of the Custodian
Board properties could not be met). The program was largely formulated by Bank and
Fund staff and pushed through the highest echelons of the Government, leaving many
Cabinet ministers and senior and middle level public servants ignorant of, or hostile to,
the program in general and the adjustment measures in particular. Of course, it was
the Government's decision to keep the dialogue withini a narrow circle of officials; this
decision reflected the Government's initial distrust of persons who had served previous
regimes. When the program, especially the stabilization component, ran into serious
difficulties soon after it was launched (because of lack of fiscal discipline coupled with
delays in the flow of external resources), IDA and the Fund had no option but to
accept large deviations from the original performance targets while intensifying the
policy dialogue with the Govermment. This sympathetic stance paid off in that the
dialogue succeeded in forestalling total abandonment of the program.
Results
VL    In spite of the implementation problems encountered, ERC I, together with
the first annual arrangement under the IMFs Structural Arrangement Facility (SAF),
initiated a policy dialogue between Govermnent and IDA which has borne fruit. Thus,
the Government came to realize the futility of price controls and eliminated these
controls except on petroleum products; it accepted the imperative of economic and
financial stabilization and therefore made a more determined effort to bring aggregate
expenditure under control; it introduced an export retention scheme and extended it
to all exports except coffee, in partial recognition of the need for an exchange rate
that is conducive to external competitiveness; and it accepted the need for divestiture



- v -
of public enterprises. The OGL, and later the SIP, were instrumental in generating a
strong supply response, especially in the industrial sector. With increased activity in
other sectors, GDP grew by over 6 percent per annum during the life of ERC I.
Sustainabilit
vii.    The Government did not show a strong commitment to the economic
stabiiization measures supported by ERC I until well into 1989. There was, for
example, a tendency to question the efficacy of devaluation, the incentive effects of
higher producer prices (especially for coffee farmers) and the benefits of monetary
restraint. As the costs of the failure to implement the reforms vigorously continued to
mount (as shown by the persistwnce of high inflation, the depreciation of the Shilling
in the parallel market e.t.c.) the Government gradually came round to accept the need
for stabilization and structural adjustment. A subsequent operation, the Second
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC II), has allowed the Government to build upon the
reforms initiated under ERC I. Without ERC IT, *    was little or no chance of the
reforms supported by ERC I being sustained.
Findines and Lessons Learned
viii.   Government did not, at the outset, make a strong effort to generate popular
understanding of, and support for, the policies it had adopted; hence the widespread
perception in the country that what the Government was implementing were Bank and
Fund policies. For its part, IDA was handicapped by the lack of up-to-date economic
and sector work and therefore failed to appreciate fully the weaknesses in public
administration. As it turned out, the ability of the key economic institutions to
implement agreed policies and programs depended almost entirely upon the
performance of a handful of individuals. Weak implementation capacity was
compounded by the absence of co-ordination among the relevant institutions. The
problem of poor co-ordination was only partially solved through the establishment of
an Economic Monitoring Committee chaired by the Finance Minister. Although an
effort was made under ERC I to start the process of addressing weaknesses in public
administration, it became more and more apparent that, to make an impact, that effort
must go much further to fill critical gaps in staffing, generate management information
and restore management processes as well as address problems of co-ordination across
ministries.



PROJECT COMPLEllON REPORT
UGANDA
FMRST ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDOT
(CREDITS 1844-UG AND A-34-UG)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECI
A. Project Identity
- Project Name: First Economic Recovery Credit
- Credit Nos.:  1844-UG and A-34-UG
- RVP Unit:   Africa Region, Country Department I
- Country:    Uganda
- Sector:     Macroeconomic
B. Project Background
Economic and Political Developments Prior to ERC I
1.    The 1970s were characterized by unprecedented political repression and gross
economic mismanagement in Uganda. Thousands of educated Ugandans were either killed or
forced to flee into exile. The economic and social infrastructure and productive plants
deteriorated progressively for lack of maintenance. The 1978-1979 civil war which culminated
in the overthrow of the Amin regime inflicted further damage on the economy. As a result of
these developments real GDP declined by 20 percent in the 1970s. The second Obote
Government which came to power in 1980 adopted a comprehensive package of stabilization
and structural adjustment measures, with the support of the Bank, the Fund and other donors.
The Government also appeared to give the country a semblance of political stability.
However, its legitimacy was chalienged right from the outset. This challenge soon turned into
a guerilla war against the regime. The regime was overthrown in a coup d' etat in July 1985
but the civil war continued until January 1986 when the NRM assumed power.
2.    The NRM inherited an economy that was in ruins. The war had severely disrupted
the production and marketing of crops and livestock as farmers fled the fighting and the
soldiers plundered whatever they could lay their hands on, especially in the Luwero triangle
which bore the brunt of the fighting. Industrial enterprises remained idle for lack of spare
parts, intermediate inputs and utilities such as power and water. The roads were in an acute
state of disrepair and the stock of goods and passenger vehicles was severely depleted. The
power and water supply and telecommunications systems were barely functioning. Education
and health services had been badly disrupted by the wvar. The economy was beset by serious
imbalances, particularly between the demand for and supply of foreign exchange and between
Government revenue and expenditure. Public administration was in a shambles. Worse still,



-2-
there was, in the north and east, continued fighting between the National Resistance Army
(NRA) and forces opposed to the new Government.
3.    The NRM Government's first response to the daunting problems that it inherted was
to intervene heavily in the economy. The Government monopolized the internal and external
trade in a number of commodities (sugar, salt, wheat flour e.t.c.) and controlled the prices of
these and other commodities. The Shilling was revalued and the official exchange rate fxed
at one-third the parallel market rate. While maintaining a very overvalued e-hange rae the
Government raised crop producer prices significantly. The producer price or robusta coffee,
for example, was increased by 81 percent. Desirable as this price increase was, it contributed
to the erosion of the tax revenue from this important source. (Coffee tax revenue in 1986/87
was 1.7 percent of GDP compared to 4.9 percent in the previous year). This was at a time
when the Government had doubled budgetary outlays and the capacity to collect other taxes
had all but collapsed. 'ro finance the resulting deficit the Government accumulated new
external payments arrears and borrowed heavily from the central bank. This expansionary
jiscal stance, coupled with a 238 percent increase in credit to the private sector (excluding
coffee), transportation bottlenecks and an acute shortage of foreign exchange, stoked the fires
of inflation; by December 1986 the year-on-year rate of inflation had reached 356 percent
compared to 130 percent twelve months earlier.
4.    The sharp acceleration of inflation summed up best the failure of the interventionist
economic policies pursued by the Government in 1986/87. To its credit the Govemment drew
the right lessons from this experience. The basic lesson learnt was that, rather than improving
supply, econc iic controls accentuated the shortage of goods and services. Having reached
this concusion, the Government then set about examining an alternative direction for
economic policy.
Bank GrouR Strateg and Economic and Sector Work
5.    The Bank Group's strategy was tailored to the peculiar circumstances of Uganda, a
country whose infrastructure had been destroyed and the economy ceverely dislocated by a
succession of civil wars. On-going traditional investment projects i;; more or less come to a
standstill for a variety of reasons, including insecurity and the poor performance of the civil
service. One element of the Bank's strategy was, therefore, to assist the Government to
remove infrastructure bottlenecks affecting production and marketing. This meant the
resumption of the implementation of already approved projects at the earliest opportunity and
the identification and preparation of new investment projects. The second element of the
strategy was to provide quick-disbursing funds in support of reforms aimed at restoring
macroeconomic stability and improving the structure and functioning of markets and public
institutions. Aside foom the rehabilitation of infrastructure, these reforms held the key to
sustained economic recovery.
6.    The economic and sector work underpinning ERC I was summarized in the 1985
Country Economic Memorandum entitled: Progress Towards Recovery and Ptospects for
Development. The macroeconomic framework underpinning ERC I was developed jointly
with tne Government and the IMF in the context of the Policy Framework Paper (1987/88-
1989190). Sector work needed updating in all areas because the Bank had been inacJve in
Uganda for a number of years. In agriculture the gap in the Bank's knowledge of the sector



-3 -
was filled to some extent by the reports of the Agricultural Task Forces covering marketing,
inputs, credit, research and other areas. The Task Forces were supported by the Bank
C:    The First Economic Recovery Credit
Orieins and Obiectives
7.    The NRM Government came to power very suspicious of the Bank (and the IMF) and
the market-oriented policies that these institutions advocate. It was also irked by the fact that
the two institutions had provided much financial assistance to the second Obote regime.
Relations between the Bank and Uganda therefore remained cool for most of 1986. Towards
the end of that year Bank staff held preliminary discussions with Government officials
conceming a possible package of economic reforms that Uganda could adopt. In January
1987 the Government, having agreed with the outline of the policy package, formally
requested the Bank to provide quick-disbursing funds and technical assistance and to convene
a Consultative Group meeting. At about the same time the Government expressed interest in
the use of resources from the Fund-s Structural Adjustment Credit (SAF). The stage was thus
set for dialogue and co-operation between the new Government and the Bank and the Fund.
The staff of the two institutions then collaborated with the overnment in preparing the first
Policy Framework Paper (PFP). The PFP was approved by the Committee of the Whole on
May 26, 1987. A Consultative Group meeting took place in June 1987 and gave strong
support to the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) that was announced by the Government
on May 15, 1987. The Paris Club met on June 18, 1987 and responded favorably to Uganda's
request for debt relief ERC I was appraised in May-June 1987, negotiated in July and
approved by the Board on September 15, 1987.
8     The basic objective of ERC I was to support the Government's Economic Recovery
Program. The aims of the ERP were to: (i) bring about internal financial stability and lower
the rate of inflation; (ii) reduce the imbalances in the external accounts; (iii) raise capacity
utilization in industry; (iv) rehabilitate infrastructure and productive plants; (v) restore
producer incentives; (vi) re-establish discipline, accountability and efficiency in the public
service, and (vii) improve public sector resource mobilization and allocation. In furtherance
of these aims the Goverment implemented at the outset the following important policy
measures:
(a)   the introduction of a new currency equivalent to 100 old Shillings, coupled
with a 30 percent tax on currency and bank deposits held by the public;
(b)   the devaluation of the Shilling by 77 percent in foreign currency terms, from
UShl4 per US dollar to USh6O;
(c)   increases ranging from 150 percent top 400 percent in the producer prices of
the traditional export crops, and
(d)   big increases in the prices of petroleum products.



- 4-
9.    This was an important beginning to reform but it was clear that much more needed to
be done to stabilize the economy and create conditions conducive to sustained growth. The
exchange rate was still grossly overvalued; there was a huge excess demand for foreign
exchange; inflation remained very high; there were many price and distribution controls; and
public sector institutions exhibited glaring weaknesses. ERC I was therefore designed to
broaden and deepen the above policy initiatives, in conjunction with the SAF which was
approved by the Fund's Board in June 1987.
Policy and Institutional Measures Supported by ERC I
10.   The measures supported by ERC I fall into the foDlowing three broad categories:
(a)   actions directed at restoring macroeconomic stability;
(b)   actions aimed at improving producer incentives and giving markets a greater
role in the allocation of resources, and
(c)   measures geared towards strengthening public sector management.
11.   At the time of launching the ERP issues of short-term stabilization loomed ven large
and were in fact accorded the highest priority. The stabiiza jon measures supported by ERC
I were basicaly agreed in the context of the PEP and the ',AF arrangement with the IMF.
These measures may be summarized thus: the budget deficit was to be kept around 3.5
percent ane, even more importantly, there was to be a progressive reduction in Government
indebtedness to the banking system; monetary and credit policies were to be tightened
considerably; and the Shilling was to be devalued in the light of domestiz and international
economic developments. The Government agreed to reinforce these measures by instituting
structural reforms aimed at improving tax administration, budget formulation and expenditure
control.
12.   The second set of actions supported by ERC I was aimed at promoting economic
recovery through improved producer incentives and greater reliance on market forces. In this
area the Government agreed: to review and increase as necessary the producer prices of the
traditional export crops (coffee, tea, cotton and tobacco); to ensure prompt payments to the
farmers; to liberalize agricultural marketing; to Umit price controls to a handful of items; to
improve the system of foreign exchange allocation; to keep the exchange rate competitive; to
speed up the preparatory work on the disposal of the properties under the Custodian Board;
and to review and simplify industrial licensing.
13.   In view of the devastated state of public institutions, actions directed at strengthening
public sector management also featured prominently in the ERP. Specifically, the
Government undertook to improve planning and budgeting, rehabilitate the civil service; and
to initiate public enterprise reforms, including divestiture.
Implementation and Monitoring of Measures Sugr -1ed by ERC I
14.   Economic Stabilization. Ile implementation of the measures aimed at restoring
macroeconomic stability got off to a very poor start. The clearest manifestation of this was



-5-
the announcement of a budget for 1987/88 which was much more expansionary than what had
been agreed with the Fund in the context of the first annual arrangement under the SAF.
The budgetary allocation for defence, understandably in reflection of the unsettled security
situation prevailing in the country, was particularly large. Unplanned outlays for the
rehabilitation of hotels needed to host the 1987 Preferential Trade Area (PTA) summit
inflated Government expenditure further. The fiscal problem was compounded by the
emergence of big shortfalls in tax revenue early in the year. Given the seriousness of the
emerging fiscal problems, the issue of a letter by the Finance Minister to the IMF setting out
specific adjustments to the budget was made a condition of Board presentation of the credit.
15.   The Government attempted mid-course corrections in August 1987 and January 1988
by, among other things, lowering some of the original expenditure estimates and increasing the
pump prices of, and the duty on, petroleum products. These efforts proved largely
unsuccessful. The result was that the deficit on a commitment basis increased significantly. In
reflection of this development, net bank claims on Government increased by USh7.8 billion
instead of declining by USh2 billion as programmed under the SAF. The 1988/89 fiscal
program fared no better, even though the revenue outturn was very much in line with the
original budget estimates. The actual deficit on a commitment basis was 54 percent higher
than the SAF target and for the second year in a row the Government had heavy recourse to
bank borrowing to finance the deficit. This time the Government's indebtedness to the
banking system went up by USh12.3 billion instead of declining by USh5 billion as envisaged
under the SAF. The original budget for 1989/90 also deviated significantly from the targets
agreed to in the context of the first annual arrangement under the ESAF. A revised budget
had to be worked out in October 1989 with the assistance of IDA and Fund staff.
16.   The main reason for the large deviations from the SAF/ESAF fiscal targets at the
estimates stage was the tendency to overestimate expenditure, especially extemally-financed
expenditure. As far as the fiscal outcomes were concerned, the deviations from the planned
levels of revenue and expenditure were due mainly to the Government's failure to control
expenditure, especially defence expenditure, and to collect revenue, particularly coffee tax
revenue. Another contributory factor was weak monitoring of the program in general and the
budget in particular; until the Economic Analysis Unit (EAU) in the Ministry of Fmance
succeeded in creating the necessary database, it was left largely to the Fund and the Bank to
identify slippages in budget implementation and to propose corrective actions.
17.   Increased Government borrowing from the banking system during the first two years
of the ERP served to undermine the monetary and credit policies agreed to under the SAF
arrangement. At the same time credit to the private sector was allowed to expand much
faster than programmed. Credit to the private sector rose by 200 percent in 1987/88 and by
248 percent in the following year. In December 1988, in an effort to ensure prompt payment
to the coffee farmers, the Government transferred the responsibility for the provision of crop
finance from the commercial banks to the Bank of Uganda (BOU). This led to an explosive
increase in credit provided to the Coffee Marketing Board (CMB), the co-operative unions
and the primary societies; crop finance outstanding thus rose from USh 4.5 billion in June
1988 to USh 19.5 billion in June 1989 and increased further to USh 25.0 billion by the end of
December 1989. In reflection of these credit developments, broad money increased by 231
percent in 1987/88 compared to a target of 40 percent and by a further 125 percent in 1988/89
as against a program target of 65 percent.



-6 -
18.   The credit stance adopted by the authorities was very passive. This stance made it
possible for the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB) and the Co-operative Bank to expand their
lending well beyond the dictates of banking prudence. Indeed, with the acquiescence of the
monetary authorities, these two banks were able to run up huge overdrafts with the central
bank. At the beginning of the ERP the Government had in fact made matters worse by
reducing interest rates from levels which were already highly negative in real terms. Deposit
rates were reduced from a range of 10-35 percent to 7-22 percent while the maximum lending
rate was reduced from 42 percent to 30 percent. In spite of the persistence of high inflation
(well in excess of 200 percent per annum), the Government kept interest rates unchanged
until July 1988 when the rates were increased across the board by 10 percentage points.
Further increases of 5 and 10 percentage points in deposit rates and lending rates,
respectively, followed in March 1989. The rates remained frozen at the March 1989 level for
the next fifteen months. Although this was a period of rapidly declining inflation, real interest
rates were still quite negative up until December 1989.
19.   The Government was equally passive in the realm of exchange rate policy for much of
the period covered by ERC I. There was clear evidence of growing excess demand for foreign
exchange: the parallel market exchange rate depreciated rapidly during the first year of the
ERP. The rate dropped from USh1O6 per US dollar in July 1987 to USh 451 in June 1988.
In that period the cumulative increase in prices was 133 percent. The Government, however,
chose to maintain the official exchange rate established in May 1987 until the beginning of
July 1988 when the Shilling was devalued by 60 percent in foreign currency terms. Except for
two small devaluations between December 1988 and March 1989, the Government maintained
its passive stance on the exchange rate until October 1989. A 41 percent devaluation in
foreign currency terms was announced on October 24, 1989. This marked the beginning of a
more active exchange rate policy, as shown by more or less regular monthly devaluations of
the Shilling. Between May 1987 and December 1989 the Shilling was devalued by 84 percent
in foreign currency terms.
20.   Very little progress was made in implementing the structural measures which were
indispensable to the attainment of macroeconomic stability. The three main areas of concem
were tax administration, budget formulation and monitoring as well as expenditure control.
Studies which were to provide the basis for actions aimed at improving the tax structure and
tax administration were either delayed or the reports turned out to be unsatisfactory. Still, the
Government took some steps towards improving the tax structure: it extended the coverage of
the sales tax to more locally-produced goods; lowered the corporate tax rate; eliminated the
customs duty exemption for' a number of products and imposed a 10 percent minimum tariff
on most imports; and kept petroleum taxation in line with exchange rate developments. If the
budget estimates were any guide, the Government continued to place great emphasis on the
revenue from the export duty on coffee. The actual results were, however, very disappointing.
In 1987/88 actual coffee tax revenue amounted to USh6.3 billion. In the following year
USh19 billion (original estimate) was expected from the coffee duty but only USh5.4 billion
was collected. The sharp fall in international coffee prices was partly responsible for the low
tax receipts from coffee. However, the problem was due largely to poor accounting and
payment for coffee barter shipments, of which the Government itself was the main
beneficiary. The Government also failed to address the issue of tax administration in any
serious way. As a result, the tax departments continued to operate under severe handicaps as



far as work incentives, transport, office accommodation, technical forms, office supplies and
other complementary inputs were concerned.
21.   Improvements in budget format and processes did not proceed as far as had been
expected. Again the problem was partly due to delays in carrying out the necessary studies.
The Government was very slow in responding to proposals put forward by a consu!tant
engaged to develop a program for budget reform. However, the Government established a
new unit, the Economic Analysis Unit, in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in 1987. Within a
very short period of time this unit succeeded in developing a fairly comprehensive database
which has been invaluable in the preparation and monitoring of the budget, principally the
recurrent budget and in monitoring other macroeconomic developments. This in turn paved
the way for the creation of an Economic Monitoring Committee chaired by the Finance
Minister. The Ministry of Planning and Economic Development was not so successful in
compiling data on project aid and the development budget. Consequently, data on
commitments and the utilization of project aid remained subject to wide margins of error.
22.   With regard to expenditure control, the Government relied on a system of
requisitioning funds which was aimed at vetting each item of expenditure in order to prevent
overspending and reduce corruption. The corollary of this was that only a small proportion of
the budget was subject to automatic releases. Each requisition for funds had to be vetted by
officials of three different departments namely, Budget, Treasury Office of Accounts and the
Auditor General. The system was thus very cumbersome. Moreover, not only did it not
prevent overspending where it mattered most, that is, in respect of defence expenditure and
unbudgeted expenditure, but also it starved essential economic and social services of funds.
23.   Economic Recoverv. The actions required to bring about economic recovery focused
on improving producer incentives, increasing reliance on market forcms and rehabilitating the
economic and social infrastructure. With regard to the traditional export crops (coffee, cotton
and tea), the Government undertook to review producer prices twice a year on the basis of a
methodology agreed with IDA, and to adjust prices so as to maintain producer incentives.
The implementation of this policy, especially in the case of coffee, was at best half-hearted.
First, the Government postponed the price increases due in October/November 1987. Tlhen it
announced in January 1988 producer prices which did not adequately compensate the farmers
for the inflation that had occurred. The producer price for robusta coffee (kiboko), for
example, was increased by only 21 percent even though consumer prices had gone up by
nearly 80 percent in the intervening period. Tea and cotton fared better; their respective
producer prices were increased by 100 and 68 percent. Further producer price increases were
announced in July 1988 (107, 100 and 150 percent, respectively, for coffee, tea and cotton).
Again the new prices were not high enough to restore incentives to the real levels established
in May 1987. The Government continued to raise, albeit inadequately, the producer prices of
tea and cotton but froze the robusta kiboko price at the July 1988 level for the next two
years. In fairness to the Government it should be stated that, given the apparently overriding
concern with the attainment of macroeconomic stability, IDA and the Fund adopted a rather
ambivalent position on the question of adequate producer prices for coffee farmers.
24.   There were other problems in the agricultural sector. For one thing, the expected
improvements in the efficiency of the agricultural marketing agencies did not materialize.
This meant that the farmers were not paid promptly or regularly for produce delivered to the



-8-
marketing agencies. In the case of coffee the situation deteriorated to the point where, by
the last quarter of 1988, the farmers were not being paid at all. The Government intervened
in December 1988 to remedy the situation. It directed the Bank of Uganda to take over from
the commercial banks responsibility for the provision of credit to the CMB and to provide or
guarantee credit to the co-operative unions and the primary societies. The result was a credit
explosion which had disastrous consequences for the money supply and inflation.
25.   With regard to the marketing of agricultural products, the Government acted to
remove restrictions on the inter-district movement of produce and to end the Produce
Marketing Board's monopoly on the export of food crops. It also announced that the co-
operative unions were free to sell lint directly to the textile mills, provided the unions cleared
up their indebtedness to the Lint Marketing Board (LMB). This announcement had no
practical effect because the unions had no means of settling their debts to LMB. The LMB
itself was expected to reduce its interest in the oil and soap industry to a minority position.
This was not done.
26.   As mentioned earlier, the Government only began to pursue an active exchange rate
policy towards the end of 1989. The result was that the Shilling continued to be severely
overvalued. This constituted - big disincentive to exports. In cognizance of this, the
Government introduced in 1988 a scheme which allowed the exporters of non-traditional
products to retain 100 percent of export proceeds. In March 1989 the scheme was extended
to all exports except coffee. Exporters were free to use the proceeds to import goods under
the 'No Funds Involved" import Ucense system but could not sell the proceeds to another
party. Subject to this restriction, the retention scheme in effect allowed exporters to convert
non-coffee receip.s into local currency at the parallel market exchange rate rather than the
official rate.
27.   The Government moved very quickly to dismantle price and distribution controls.
Statutory controls on the prices of beer, soft drinks, soap, sugar, salt, hoes, cooking oil and
other goods were phased out by the end of 1988; only the prices of petroleum products
continue to be controlled by the Government The monopoly rights enjoyed by state trading
organizations such as Foods and Beverages Limited and Produce Marketing Board in the
importation and/or distribution of certain commodities were also abolished.
28    In an effort to improve the allocation of foreign exchange and assure certain
manufacturing firms regular supply of foreign exchange, the Government introduced a limited
Open General Licensing system in January 1988. The OGL covered the raw materials and
spare parts requirements of firms producing the following commodities: soap, beverages,
textiles, blankets, mattresses, tobacco and cement. The OGL remained limited, as the
Government, pleading scarcity and uncertain supply of foreign exchange, refrained from
expanding the system as originally envisaged. Instead of expanding the OGL, the Government
introduced in December 1988 a Special Import Program under which foreign exchange is
provided to users on a first-come first-served basis. SIP was intended to speed up the
utilization of import support funds. Under ERC I the Government was expected to create a
Special Credit Facility (SCF) to assist industrial firms which faced problems in raising local
cover to buy foreign exchange. The Government and IDA had second thoughts about the
need for such a credit facility. No action was therefore taken to set up the SCF. However,
the Government made ad hoc arrangements with UCB which met the local cover



-9-
requirements of a selected number of firms which were predominantly state-owned
enterprises.
29.   Under ERC I the Government also agreed to speed up the verification of the
ownership of Custodian Board properties which have long cast a shadow over the investment
climate and Uganda's commitment to the inviolability of private property rights. Verification
would pave the way for the return of the properties to the former owners or disposal through
sale or other means. In an effort to give momentum to the verification exercise and related
matters the President appointed a full-time Deputy Minister in charge of the Custodian
Board. Some progress was made towards the verification of claims to, and the status of, the
properties but it was difficult to ascertain the exact scope of work that was done.
30.   The Government had undertaken to review, by December 1987, the system of
industrial licensing, including the relevant legislation. This was not done. Rather, the
Government initiated work leading to the drawing up of a new investment code.
Public Sector Manaiement. The Government took a number of measures aimed at
strengthening public sector management. The main measures are enumerated here. (i) As
part of the 1988/89 budget it announced a 25 percent cut in the wage bill for group
employees. (ii) It prepared verified staff lists for the traditional civil service, with the
exception of the Teaching Service and the Local Authorities. (iii) It compiled a list of
approved positiors, together with filled posts, and initiated action towards the publication of
an Establishment Register. (iv) The staff lists were linked to each ministry's or department's
payroll; in this way the Government was able to weed out a number of ghost employees, with
resulting budgetary savings estimated at USh1.2 billion in 1989/90. (v) A functional review of
the portfolios of 14 of the key ministries was also completed. (vi) The Government revived
the Public Accounts Committee of Parliament to scrutinize the Auditor General's report on
financial reports prepared by the Ministry of Finance. (viii) A number of public servants,
including some very senior ones, were dismissed or prosecuted for indulging in corrupt
practices. (ix) Tne Government appointed a Public Service Review and Reorganization
Commission (PSRRC) in 1989 to examine the structure, organization, staffing, remuneration,
management and other aspects of the public service and make recommendations.
31.   The Government did not act as quickly as expected to complete the studies which
were to provide the basis for improvements in central procurement practices. Nevertheless, a
Directorate of Central Purchasing was established; it made practically no impact on
Government procurement.
32.   In the area of parastatal reform the Government took the following actions: it
established the Public Industrial Enterprises Secretariat (PIES) in the Ministry of Industry and
Technology to assist in restoring financial discipline and improving the management of the
parastatals; it classified the parastatals into three groups: those to be retained, those to be
divested and those to be closed; and it created the Public Enterprise Secretariat (PES) under
the Ministry of Finance to spearhead the process of parastatal divestiture. The PES initiated
a Divestiture Design Study, diagnostic studies of BOU, UCB, the Co-operative Bank and a
number of other public enterprises, as well as a Public Sector Administrative Reform and
Planning Study. A comprehensive restructuring plan was to be drawn up for the Uganda



- 10-
Development Corporation (UDC) and approved by the Corporation's Board. This did nc t
happen because the factual and analytical basis for such a plan did not exist.
33.   In June 1988 the Government rolled over the Rehabilitation and Development Plan
(RDP) as expected, covering the period 1988/89-1991/92. The revised plan was endorsed by
IDA. However, the RDP continued to suffer from a number of weaknesses. First, the
database for the preparation of the plan was very deficient. Secondly, the plan was essentially
a compilation of externally-financed projects. Thirdly, economic criteria played little role in
project selection. Fourthly, the link between the RDP and the development budget was at
best tenuous.
Evaluaffon of Performance
34.   The conditions relating to the release of the second tranche were only five. However,
the policy matrix contained approximately thirty other measures which the Government,
through the letter of development policy, had undertaken to implement. The type and
number of conditions attached to this operation reflected IDA's perception of not only the
problems facing the country but also the Government's capacity to implement the required
actions. Given the fact that IDA had been inactive in Uganda for a number of years and in
view of the civil war and the generally chaotic conditions that had prevailed in Uganda, IDA
staff's knowledge of the state of the economy and implementation capacity was bound to be
patchy in many respects. Looked at in this light, the loose wording of some of the conditions
( e.g. "substantial progress" or "initiate") was justified. In this context it should be noted that
ERC I was prepared in response to an urgent request from the Government. IDA was
anxious to assist Uganda but this meant that the time available for effective dialogue with the
Government was limited. At the same time, such dialogue was necessary, since a big and
influential section within the Government still favored a controlled economy. Worse still, the
capacity to analyze various policy options and propose appropriate measures was woefully
lacking in Government. These two considerations raised questions, right from the outset,
about the extent to which the Government had internalized the poiicies and measures to
which it was committing itself
35.   The ERC I conditions relating to economic stabilization were, as is customary with
macroeconomic adjustment operations, conditions agreed between the Government and the
Fund in the context of the SAF arrargements. Both the Bank and the Fund recognized that
stabilization was an essential prerequisite to sustained economic growth. For this reason, the
fiscal benchmarks under the 1987/88 SAF were quite detailed. There were, for example,
quarterly benchmarks on recurrent expenditure and tax revenue. Such degree of specificity
was, however, inappropriate in a situation where information systems had collapsed and much
of the required data was lacking. A great deal of effort was thus put into establishing
benchmarks which were practically unmonitorable.
36.   The participation of a large number of Government agencies (BOU, Ministry of Co-
operatives and. Marketing, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Public
Service and Cabinet Affairs e.t.c.) was required for the fulfillment of the conditions attached
to ERC L There was, however, no mechanism for co-ordinating the efforts of these agencies.
The responsibility for implementing and monitoring the various actions therefore rested



ahncst entirely with MOF. Given its own serious internal weaknesses, MOF was simply not
capable of performing this role.
37.   Performance of Government. The Government's performance in implementing ERC I
was generally disappointing, particularly in 1987/88. Prior to Board approval of this operation
the Government had taken a number of strong measures up-front. (See the May 15 1987
measures summarized in paragraph 8). This was, naturally, taken by IDA and the Fund to be
a good demonstration of the Government's commitment to the ERP. However, the
Government's actions soon called into question its resolve to implement the economic
reforms. The first sign of this was the announcement of a budget which deviated substantially
from the SAF targets. In addition, the Government reduced interest rates when it should
have raised them. The bottom line was that the Goverment made practically no effort to
meet the SAP benchmarks during the first year of ERC I. The stabilization objective was
clearly not taken seriously by the Government. For, large sections of the Government clung
to the view that there was no correlation between high and rising inflation and excessive
credit and monetary expansion, fuelled mainly by the printing of money to finance the budget
deficit. Besides pursuing expansionary fiscal policies, the Govemment maintained an
overvalued exchange rate (USh6O per US dollar) throughout the fist year of the program. In
this regard it should be noted that the SAF was rather vague on exchange rate policy; it only
called for a mid-year review. For its part, the Govermment showed little or no understanding
of the role that the exchange rate could play in improving Uganda's international
competitiveness and bolstering fiscal revenues. With regard to petroleum prices and crop
producer prices there was, during the first year of ERC I, a greater willingness to take the
required actions. Also the OGL was made operational in January 1988.
38.   The Government's performance started to improve in some respects during the second
year of ERC I. A 40 percent currency devaluation in July 1988 was followed by a further 25
percent devaluation in two steps (in December 1988 and March 1989). But the Government
again froze the exchange rate until October 1989. Other positive developments were
increases in interest rates (although they remained substantially negative in real terms); the
introduction of the SIP; the dismantling of most price and distnbution controls; the
introduction of the 100 percent export retention scheme and its extension to all exports
except coffee; and the establishment of the Public Service Review and Reorganization
Commission (PSRRC). On the negative side: the Government continued to have problems in
controlling expenditure, especially defence expenditure; introduced a credit arrangement for
coffee marketing which was highly inflationary; refused to grant coffee farmers further price
increases; merely announced that co-operative unions can sell lint directly to the textile mills;
failed to review the OGL on a quarterly basis, let alone expand it; made no meaningful effort
to address the weaknesses in tax administration; allowed the issue of the disposal of the
Custodian Board properties to drag on; and made little progress on public enterprise reform.
39.   Poor budget formulation and execution were among the most persistent weaknesses
exhibited by the Government. For three years in a row (1987/88-1989/90) the original
revenue and expenditure estimates had to be re-worked so that they would more or less
conform with the understandings reached with IDA and the Fund in the context of the PFP
and the SAF/ESAF. The problem could have been avoided or minimized if the Government
had consulted closely with the Fund and IDA prior to finalizing the draft budget estimates.
The subsequent revisions were very damaging to the credibility of the budget process. Budget



- 12 -
imnplementation also left a lot to be desired. Expenditure control did improve as time went by
but the manner in which that control was exercised created its own problems. In particular,
defence expenditure was allowed to grow enormously while the other sectors were being
severely squeezed.
The Government was rather slow in implementing the conditions laid down in Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement for the release of the second tranche. Actually, at the
time of review of the tranche release conditions the Government seemed to have been
surprised by IDA's insistence on the production of evidence of fulfillment of each of the
conditions. In the event the Government just managed to comply with. the second tranche
conditions.
40.   Performance of IDA. In designing ERC I there was a temptation on the part of IDA
to address as many of the macroeconomic and structural problems affecting the country as
possible; hence the wide-ranging measures included in 4he letter of development policy and
the policy matrix. This broad approach carried the risk of dissipating the Government's
energies over a wide front. Of course, IDA and the Fund were well aware that the most
pressing need was for stabilization and the program correctly placed great emphasis on this.
-lowever, neither IDA nor the Fund was able, from the outset, to convince Government of
the need to accord the highest priority to the restoration of macroeconomic stability.
Prerequisites for macroeconomic stability included expenditure discipline, stepped-up domestic
revenue mobilization and improved export performance. These things did not happen. The
result was that the Government practically abandoned the stabilization components of the
ERP in 1987/88 and 1988/89. To their credit, rather than turning their backs on Uganda, IDA
and the Fund intensified their dialogue with the Government. It took a great deal of
perseverance, over a two-year period, to get the Government to perceive the benefits of
successful stabilization and to focus on this aspect of the program. The dialogue was
conducted mainly in the course of preparing a follow-on operation, ERC II. The preparation
of ERC II started as early as September 1988.
41.   IDA did not fully appreciate the extent to which key economic institutions like MOF,
MPED, MPSCA and BOU had been weakened during the past decade and a half of
economic and political turmoil. As a result it tended to overestimate the Government's
capacity to implement policy and institutional measures. The problem was compounded by
the paucity of accurate and timely data needed to formulate policies appropriate to Uganda's
circumstances and to monitor the implementation of those policies. Neither IDA nor the
Fund focused on the data and related problems early enough. As a result the formulation of
the macroeconomic framework as well as the monitoring of the program was plagued by
severe data problems.
42. IDA was very responsive to Uganda's external financing requirements. It took a
relatively short period (less than twelve months) for ERC I to be to processed and approved.
IDA took a gamble by going ahead with the credit soon after the Government announced a
budget which deviated substantially from the SAF targets. During the life of ERC I Uganda's
external financing requirements increased mainly because of the sharp fall in coffee prices
following the collapse of the quota system of the Intemational Coffee Agreement in July
1989. Moreover, during the first two years there were significant slippages in program
implementation, particularly the measures required to restore macroeconomic stability and



- 13 -
bring down inflation. These slippages necessitated a delay in the processing of the next
adjustment operation; that is, ERC II. To bridge the resulting funding gap IDA provided
additional financing in the form of (a) two IDA reflows totalling SDR 2.5 million, (b) a
supplemental of SDR 19.0 million to ERC I and (c) a supplemental of SDR 10.0 million to
the African Facility credit. These supplemental credits played a key role in sustaining the
policy dia!ogue, maintaining an adequate flow of imports into the country and preventing the
excessive depreciation of the Shilling on the parallel foreign exchange market. IDA also
convened three meetings of the Consultative Group and intensified its efforts to mobilize
additional resources for Uganda within the framework of the SPA.
Other Aspects of ERC I
43.   Procurement. The use of ERC I funds was limited to eligible imports on the basis of
a negative list. The bulk of the funds was used to procure imports under the OGL and SIP
following normal commercial practice. The full amount (SDR 14 million) allocated for
imports of petroleum products was used.
44.   Disbursements. The IDA and Africa Facility credits (inclusive of the supplemental
credits), totalling SDR 101.2 million, were fully disbursed. The original closing date of
September 30, 1989 had to be extended to June 30, 1991 in order to allow for the
disbursement of the supplements and co-financing to the credits. The original amounts were
disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of SDR 38.7 million was disbursed upon credit
effectiveness which occurred within one month of Board approval. The release of the second
tranche of SDR 31 million was delayed by about two months for two reasons. Firstly, IDA
sought clarification and more evidence regarding the fulfillment of the tranche conditions.
Secondly, IDA wanted to be certain that the 1988/89 budget incorporated measures which
would bring the ERP back on tracl.
45.   Utilization. BOU was the Government's agency responsible for the allocation of ERC
I funds to various users. Disbursements were paid into two special accounts (one for the IDA
credit and the other for the AF credit) which BOU opened abroad. The utilization of the
funds was plagued by a number of problems. First, the decision to restrict the OGL to a
handful of firms meant continued reliance upon cumbersome and often arbitrary
administrative procedures for the allocation of the bulk of the funds. This problem was solved
by introducing the SIP in December 1988. Secondly, the minimum amount (US$200,000)
eligible for processing under the special commitment procedure proved to be too large- in
Uganda's circumstances; the figure was therefore reduced to US$75,000. Thirdly, a number of
companies were unable to raise the local cover for the foreign exchange allocated to them.
These were companies which could neither generate the necessary funds internally nor borrow
from the commercial banks. Fourthly, bottlenecks in the coDlection of documentation needed
to support requests for replenishment resulted in delays in replenishing the special accounts.
This problem was obviated to some extent by increasing, in March 1988, the initial deposit
under the IDA credit. Fifthly, there were delays in committing some of the funds promised by
co-financiers. Finally, credit utilization suffered from a general lack of familiarity with IDA
procurement and disbursement procedures.
46.   Accounts and Audit. BOU did not have the capacity to maintain adequate records
and accounts in respect of the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the credits. This



- 14 -
was not peculiar to these credits; the accounting function had collapsed completely throughout
BOU. Only one set of accounts and audit was produced by the Government in November
1989; IDA had insisted that the requisite set of accounts be produced before ERC II was
presented to the Board.
Co-financigg of ERP
47.   ERC I played an important role in mobilizing additional balance of payments support
for Uganda. Nine donors co-financed the program. These were AfDB, SIDA, Switzerland,
Saudi Arabia, CIDA, Norway, DANIDA, ODA (UK) and Finland. Together these donors
provided approximately US$120 million of quick-disbursing funds for the program. With the
exception of the AfDB, IDA administered the funds provided by these donors. The program
was also supported by the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Austria, the EEC and the
USA. Debt service arrears to some of the donors resulted in delays in the commitment of
funds or disrupted disbursements.
The Results of the ERP
48.   The ERP showed mixed results during the first two and half years; i.e. during the life
of ERC I. On the one hand, much progress was made in rehabilitating the infrastructure,
particularly the trunk roads; there was a rapid revival of economic activity; and important
steps were taken towards creating the appropriate climate increased production and
development. On the other hand, the Government only began to make real progress towards
restoring fiscal and monetary stability during the second half of 1989.
49.   Real GDP growth averaged 6.7 percent a year during 1987-1989, compared to a target
of 5 percent. As a result per capita GDP grew by nearly 4 percent a year. These high rates
of growth were made possible by the following factors: the return of peace and security to
most parts of the country; significant increases in crop producer prices at the beginning of the
program; the rehabilitation of the major trunk roads, public utilities and other infrastructure;
the elimination of price, distribution and other controls; and the availability of import support
at a time of sharp declines in export earnings. ERC I contributed to the creation of
conditions which facilitated the strong recovery of output.
50.   During the life of ERC I the Government made very slow progress in stabilizing
economic conditions and bringing down the rate inflation. The rate of inflation was
programmed, optimistically, to fall to 30 percent by the end of the first year of the ERP. As
it turned out the year-on-year rate did not drop below 100 percent until June 1989; the 30
percent target was finally achieved in June 1990. The co-existence of high rates of GDP
growth and severe macroeconomic imbalances appeared for a while to give the Government
the false impression that the imbalances did not matter.
51.   The results of the ERP in respect of the external accounts were also disappointing.
High deliveries of coffee to the CMB in 1987/88 and 1988/89, accompanied by a rapid build-
up of stocks, and the attendant crop rmance problems tempted the Government into denying
the farmers further price increases. The delayed effects of this policy began to be felt in
lower deliveries of coffee in 1989/90. On top of this, international coffee prices collapsed in
July 1989. The net result was a drastic decline in coffee export earnings (from US$286



- 15 -
million in 1987/88 to US$167 million in 1989/90) and a growing dependence on external
assistance. Taken together with the fact that other exports did not recover as expected, this
meant that Uganda's balance of payments situation became more prewarious than ever before.
D.    The Main Lessons Len
52.   The foregoing review has highlighted a number of lessons which are important for
future adjustment operations. These lessons touch on the following areas: Government
commitment; program design; disbursements; institutional capacity; co-financing; and results.
53.   The experience of the first two years of the ERP showed how difficult it was to gauge
Government commitment to the program. IDA and the Fund had beein successful in
convincing tlre Government to take several important measures up-front. After taking the
initial actions the Government's commitment slackened appreciably. One lesson to be drawn
from this is that the dialogue with the Government must, from the outset, emphasize the fact
that reform is a continuing process. Another lesson is that the dialogue itself must go beyond
the narrow circle of top politicians and officials to involve a broader spectrum of decision
makers and implementors. For, the greater the number of people who understand and
support the policies the greater the prospects of sustaining the. reforms. Moreover, some
people may oppose the Government's economic policies out of a pique at being excluded
from the discussions leading up to the adoption of those policies.
54.   With regard to desigu, ERC I highlighted the need t6:
give Government officials every opportunity to participate in the design of the
program so that sooner or later the Government can "own" the program;
focus on a few actions which are critical to the restoration of macroeconomic
stability;
pay more attention to implementation capacity, especially in the sequencing of
structural measures;
set performance targets which are not wholly unrealistic (e.g. the first-year
inflation target of 30 percent).
55.   The disbursement of ERC I fundi taught us three lessons. First, much more effort is
needed to make the Government ager responsible for the allocation of funds fully
4.'rnversant with IDA procurement anu disbursement procedures. Secondly, tied aid is, by its
ndture, not quick-disbursing; mixing this type of aid with untied aid leads to the overestimation
of the amount of import support that can be utilized in a given period. Thirdly, donors who
ask IDA to administer their funds must accept that the pace of disbursement of those funds
would be determined by IDA procedures and BOU's ability to comply with the required
procedures. While still demanding accountability for the use of their funds, some donors
seemed to have lost sight of this point and became rather frustrated at th. slow pace of
utilization of the funds.



- 16 -
56.   In the area of institutional capacity, one lesson of ERC I is that it is easy to
overestimate the Government's capacity to implement and monitor the required actions. In
reality, the program depended, for its success, on just a handful of grossly-overworked
officials. Moreover, the elementary information systems necessary for sound policy
forniulation and monitoring did not exist. The second lesson is that rebuilding institutional
capacity takes a long time; the key actions in this area must therefore commence very early.
A third lesson is that while studies may weil be needed to map out strategies and develop
action plans for institutional reform, such studies can become an excuse for inaction.
57.   As far as co-financing is concerned, the lesson to be drawn from ERC I is that, aside
from the Government's willingness to stay the course in implementing economic reforms,
factors such as respect for human rights and moves towards democratization can help to
unlock additional donor resources. Given Uganda's long history of brutality and political
chaos, the issue of governance could not be divorced from economic reform.
58.   Perhaps, the most important lesson of ERC I is that results, in the form of an early
supply response, hold the key to the sustainability of structural adjustment programs. The
quick rebound of economic activity was a major selling point for the reforms. The
Government was thus in a stronger position to persevere with the fight against inflation and
implement other reforms.



- 17 -
PART H. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Baclonnd. Evolution and Development of the Program
59.   After the change of Government in January 1986, the NRM Government came up
with a program of objectives, policies and actions designed to achieve overall recovery of the
country's economy (dubbed the Economy Recovery Program). The Government approached
a number of possible donors, and in this connection wrote a formal letter dated 1 July 1987 to
the International Development Association (IDA) requesting it to help in financing urgently
needed imports for the program by way of an import support credit.
60.   The Association agreed to assist in financing the program. The Association had
extended program assistance to the country before by way of three reconstruction credits, but
this was the first recovery credit to the country and was a successor program to the 3 earlier
programs.
61.   Negotiations between the Government and the Association for the credit took place in
Washington in mid-July 1987. The credit was approved by IDA's Board in mid-Septenhe:r
1987 for an amount initially of SDR 50.9 million. An African Facility Credit of SDR i8.8
million was also approved at the same time. The original closing date was September 30,
1989.
62.   The IDA credit was later enhanced by supplements/reflows totalling SDR 21.5 million
to reach SDR 72.4 million. The African Facility Credit was also enhanced by a supplement of
SDR 10 million to SDR 28.8 million.
63.   Under the agreements the Government undertook to institute, among other things,
the following five major policy reforms and actions:
-     To prepare and adopt a public investment program for 1988/89 through 1990,91;
-     to revise the May 1987 producer prices for export crops;
-     to adopt an Open General Licensing system to give priority industries access to
foreign exchange for eligible imports;
-     to restructure the public enterprise sector including retention, liquidation, complete or
partial privatization of some public enterprises, and
-     to complete the verification of ownership of a significant number of the properties
falling under the Departed Asians' Property Custodian Board.
B.    Implementatlon of the Program
64.   Despite the post-war nature of the period in which the program was initiated and
despite the continuing instability in some pasts of the country, implementation was quite



- 18 -
successful. The program, however, was rather slow in the initial stages and its closing date
had to be successively extended from 30th September 1989 to 30th June 1991.
65.   Immediately following the signing of the credits, a Foreign Exchange and Import
LAcensinj Committee (FEIL) composed of persons drawn from various Ministries and the
Bank of Uganda was set up to allocate the funds; the special accounts for the IDA and
African Facility credits were opened and applications for both the authorized allocation or
initial deposit and retroactive financing were lodged with IDA. However, authorized
signatures took time to send to IDA and this was not done until 5th November 1987. The
legal opinion of the Attorney-General which takes a special format and can only be provided
after signature of the agreements (yet it is a condition precedent to effectiveness) also took
time to send to IDA. Getting administrative agreements for the co-financing signed, provision
of legal opinions and specimen signatures thereon also took time owing to lack of close
coordination between various agencies at the early stages of the program. The appointment
of an overall ERC Co-ordinator in 1989 helped to make things easier subsequently.
66.   The credits became effective in October 1987 and both retroactive funds and the
initial advances were released in October and November respectively.
67.   Initially allocation of credit funds to eligible importers was done administratively,
except for OGL companies. Lack of local cover hampered or slowed down the pick-up of the
funds; this in turn greatly slowed down implementation of the program. Thus, although the
allocation of foreign exchange started as early as 18th November 1987, the first Letter of
Credit (L/C) was not opened until January 1988. In some cases the time span between
allocation and pick up ran into 6-12 months. The ever-depreciating value of the shilling also
compounded matters with respect to the amount of local cover that had to be put up as time
went by.
68.   Government found a partial remedy by scrapping administrative allocation and
instituting a new system on 5th December 1988 whereby any importer with local cover
automatically got foreign exchange for commodities on a positive list. This innovative system
greatly speeded up the taking up of funds.
69.   The initial advance of US$10 million to the special account for the IDA credit was too
low to support speedy implementation in view of the turnaround time of supporting
documentation for replenishing the special account. IDA agreed to increase the initial
advance to US$19 million in April 1988. The Bank of Uganda put up a temporary US$5
million collateral security with the depository bank to help finance confirmation of L/Cs in-
between replenishments. All these actions facilitated smoother and speedier utilization of the
funds.
70.   A lesson to be drawn here is that the initial advance should be large enough to permit
uninterrupted opening and ronfirmation of L/Cs. Disbursement would be faster if IDA could
replenish the special accounts against evidence of firm commitment of funds i.e. against
confirmed irrevocable L/Cs rather than shipping documents and payment advice. The African
Development Fund (AfDF), for example, can and does replenish against commitment i.e. on
the basis of value of confirmed L/Cs. So does KfW.



- 19 -
71.   With IDA as the lead-donor, the program was subsequently supported by AfDF,
SIDA, Switzerland, Saudi Arabia, CIDA, Norway, DANIDA, UK-ODA and Finland: these
together provided a total of about US$120 million, all in the form of import-support funds
which, with the IDA contribution of approximately US$132 million, brought total funds
committed under the operation to about US$252 million.
72.   The contribution of the various donors is shown in the table below.
FUND                         CURRENCY            AMOUNT            US$
IDA 1844 UG (0-4)              SDR                72.40           95.00
IDA African Facility           SDR                28.80           37.40 (0 & 1)
SIDA (1 & 2)                   SEK                60.00            9.70
Swiss Grant                    SFR                10.00            7.00
Saudi Fund Grant               SR                 17.00            4.50
Norwegian Grant                NOK                20.00            3.00
DANIDA Grant                   USD                 6.00            6.00
UK Grant                       STG               16.00           28.63
Finland Grants I & II          FIM                61.74           14.55
CIDA Grant                     CAD                14.84           12.00
ADF                            FUA                30.00           35.00
252.78
73.   IDA was instrumental in mobilizing the other donors to support the operation.
Government is grateful for this and looks forward to closer cooperation with IDA in this area.
The flexibility of IDA in agreeing to increase the initial advance into the IDA special account
is also appreciated.
74.   There were, however, problems and delays in concluding the documentation for some
of the co-financing and utilizing the funds. The disbursement procedures of the Saudi Fund
for were found to be particularly complicated. The Saudi Fund did not provide any initial
advance. Funds from other sources had to be used and expended and then be refunded by
the Saudi Fund ex-post facto. It investigates owners and the background of suppliers'
companies and ships freighting the goods, which, together with country of origin, must be
acceptable to it before refunds are made. In a number of cases, as much as 50 percent of
procurement in value was rejected by the Saudi Fund ex-post facto. This affected the
utilization of the funds.



- 20 .
75.   The Canadian donor (CIDA) restricted procurement to Canada and this caused delays
in utilization.
76.   The Swiss money could only be accessed by special commitment. Unfortunately, the
minimum special commitment threshold, at US$200,000 equivalent, was too high to engender
smooth and speedy utilization.
77.   The DANIDA agreement restricted procurement to Denmark and part II IDA
member countries. With the exception of Kenya, part II countries are not, traditionally,
important sources of supply for Uganda. IDA as Administrator for the DANIDA grant, did
not at first allow utilization of the funds via special commitment: only the special account
could be used, replenishment of which was however affected by the slow turn-around of
shipping documents . Moreover, initially, utilization had been delayed by several months,
owing to a certain amount of confusion among several Government agencies, notably, Ministry
of Planning & Economic Development, Ministry of Finance and the Foreign Exchange and
Import Licensing Committee, as to how the funds were to be allocated and who was to do the
allocation.
78.   Utilization of the SIDA grant was entirely via the special account, subject to the same
slow movement of replenishment documents.
79.   The entire British grant of 10 million was released as a deposit, in two tranches of
5 million, placed on the African Facility Credit special account. IDA allowed the use of
African Facility documentation for accessing the British grant supplement of 6 million on a
replenishment basis. These liberal conditions made utilisation of the U.K funds smooth and
fast.
80.   By June 30, 1991, all the funds under the program had been fully committed and
approximately 98% disbursed. In view of the problems that plagued the utilization of the
funds, this was a highly successful outcome.
C.    Evaluation of the lrarm
81.   The program can be divided into basically two sub-programs - a program of balance of
payments support (the provision of foreign exchange for urgently needed imports for the
Economic Recovery Program) and a program of support for the implementation of policy
actions and reforms aimed at bringing about economic receovery and improving the
performance of selected Government institutions.
Import-SuRport
82.   Under the operation a total of about US$252m was provided by donors (including
IDAs' contribution of approximately US$132 million) between 1987 and 1991. During this
period Uganda's ability to generate its own foreign exchange to support imports, including oil,
was severely constrained principally because of low export volumes, falling coffee export
prices. For most of the period, the only foreign exchange available for allocation for private
imports under official arrangements was foreign exchange provided under the operation and



- 21 -
whenever, for some reason, these funds were not available, this meant that there was no
foreign exchange through official channels for private imports at all.
83.   The availability of these funds helped to moderate the depreciation of the shilling in
the parallel market. ERC I funds, including co-financing, contributed significantly towards
improving the supply situation in the country, and generated large amounts of Government
revenue in the form of counter-part fundr and taxes on imported and locally produced goods.
Polift Actions and Reforms
84.   The release of the second tranche of the IDA and African Facility credits was, as is
customary, made conditional upon the implementation of the policy actions and reforms
referred to in paragraph [ ]. All the required actions were implemented to a greater or lesser
extent. Nonetheless, difficulties were experienced in meeting the precise deadlines.
(a)   An Ogen General Ucensing SYstem was established to avail foreign exchange, on a
priority basis and regularly, as needed, to specific industrial sub-sectors considered
essential for economic recovery to import raw materials and spare parts to maintain
continuity of production. When instituted in 1987/88, the following sectors were
selected: soap, textiles, cement, beverages and mattresses. As a result 25 initial firms
were given OGL status. After the successful operation of the system for two years,
the facility was extended to the following additional sectors, effective January 1990:
pharmaceuticais, galvanized iron sheets, aluminum hollowware, nails and sugar. The
number of firms on OGL has since increased to 53.
The operation of the OGL system helped to revive, maintain or increase production in
the relevant industries, thus replacing imports, reducing shortages, conserving foreign
exchange, and boosting Government revenue from the selected industries. Overall, it
thus helped to stabilize the economy.
Although the impact of the OGL system on production has been positive, some
factors impinged on its performance. Many firms complained of:
(i)   lack of local cover to purchase foreign exchange;
(ii)   high interest rates, and
(iii)  high taxation.
In the face of inflation and the ever-depreciating value of the shilling more local cover
had to be found to buy the forein exchange as time went by and to pay taxes; goods
became more expensive and therefore hard to selL
A lesson here is that provision of foreign exchange is not enough. There is a need for
supplementary policies such as the reduction of tax rates, and the provision of special
credit facilities. A partial answer was found by selling foreign exchange on deferred
terms to selected manufacturing concerns. The local cover problem had been



- 22 -
anticipated at the time of preparing the program but there was very little follow-up
during program implementation.
(b)   Producer prices for export crogs were revised upwards successively in January 1988,
July 1988, June 1989, June 1990 and December 1990. This was aimed at stimulating
production and countering the shift of production to competing crops.
(c)   The public enterMrises action plan was completed and a first attempt made at
classifying the enterprises into those to be retained, liquidated or privatized. (The
classification was subsequently revised). No enterprises were actually privatized or
liquidated. The implementation of the action plan will help free Government of the
burden of maintaining non-performing public enterprises, with a positive impact on the
state's coffers.
(d)   The verification of departed Asians' properties received renewed emphasis under
ERC I but the exercise was hampered by the poor records kept by the Custodian
Board.
85.   Throughout the operation, the Government received the ful co-operation of IMA as
represented by its staff both at Headquarters and its missions in Kampala and Nairobi
Several missions visited the country to supervise the program. Government is grateful for this
co-operation.



- 23 -
PART HI. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1 - CREDIT POSITION
(Amounts in US$ Million)
As of January 2. 1992
Credit     Original       Disbursed     Cancelled     Repaid   Outstanding
18440/18443    131.3         135.4           0            0         135.4
A-340/A-341
Table 2 - CUMIULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
FY87  FY88  FY89    FY90  FY91   FY92
(i)  Planned                   44.1   89.1   94.1   131.1  135.4  135.4
(ii) Actual                    35.1   49.9   90.8   128.7  133.1  135.4
(iii) (ii) as % of (i)          80      56      96      98      98    100
Date of Final Disbursement:       August 15, 1991
Table 3 - PROJECT DATES
Original             Actual
Initiating Memorandum                     05/14/87              05/14/97
Letter of Development Policy              07/01/87              07/01/87
Negotiations                              07W29/87              07l9/87
Board Approval                            09/15/87              09/15/87
Credit Agreement                          09/30/87              09/30/87
Effectiveness                             10/13/87              10/13/87
Credit Closing                            09/30/89              06/30/92
Completion                                09/30/90              09/11/91



- 24 -
Table 4 - STAFF INPUTS (Staffweeks)
FY86  Y87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 TOTAL
Preappraisal        2.0  20.0                                   22.0
Appraisal                23.4  30.0                             53.4
Negotiations                    7.2                              7.2
Supervision                    17.0  12.5  9.7   2.0            41.2
Completion                                         3.2   0.5    3.7
Total              2.0  43.4  54.2  12.5   9.7   5.2   0.5  127.5
Table 5 - MISSION DATA
No. of   No. of     Staff     Date of
Month/Year   Weeks   Persons    Weeks   Report
Preparation             02/87        2          5         10      04/03/87
Appraisal               05/87         3         9         27      06/06/87
Supervision I           02/88         1         3          3      03/14/88
Supervision iI          05/88         2         7         14      06/20/88
Supervision HI          11/88         1         3          3      12/19/88
Supervision IV          02/89         1         2          2      04/26/89
Supervision V           05/89         1.5       3          4.5   06/26/89
Supervision VI          11/89         1         2          2      12/20/89
Supervision VII         03/90         2         1          2      04/09/90
Completion              07/91         2         1          2      09/11/91
Table 6 - OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower/Executing Agency: Republic of Uganda/Ministry of Finance
Foliow-on Project:
Project:               Second Economic Recovery
Credit No.:            2087-UG
Amount:                US$125.0 million
Board Date:            02/01/90



- 25 -
Table 7 1 GDP at Factor Cost, 1985-1990, at Constant (1987) Prices
(USh miltion)
INDUSTRY GROUP                     1985     1986       1987     1 88      1989    1990
Agriculture                      115,278   116,000   122,294  129,358 136,598  140.429
Mining & quarrying                    34         28        34        33      33        51
Manufacturing                      6,129     5,767      6,734    8,262   9,793   10,513
Etectricity/water                    108        126       130       105     113       127
Construction                       2,904     2,438      3,261    4,154   4,524    4,963
Retail/whotesale trade            17,750    17,389    18,977   21,0;1  22,943   23,843
Transport/coiunuication            5,137     5,596      5,812    6,230   6,979    6,989
Other                             16,141    16,661    17,201   17,734  18,264   19,007
Total GDP                        163,481   164,005   174,443  186,967 199,247  205,922
Source: Statistics Department



-26 -
Table 8 GDP in Constant 1987 Prices - Percentage Anmual Growth Rates
1985     1986      1987      1988     1989    1990
Agriculture                         2.4        0.1       5.4      5.8      5.6      2.8
Hining & quarrying                -19.0      -17.6      21.4      -2.9     0.0     54.5
Manufacturing                      -9.8       -5.9      16.8      22.7    18.5      7.4
Electricity/water                  -8.5       16.7       3.2    -19.2      7.6     12.4
Construction                       -9.6      -16.0      33.8     27.4      8.9      9.7
Retail/wholesale trade              3.2       -2.0       9.1      11.1     8.8      3.9
Transport/communication             7.9        8.9       3.9      7.2    12.0       0.1
Other                               3.6        3.4       7.4      3.5      3.4     -0.7
Total GDP                           2.0        0.3       6.4      7.2      6.6      3.4
Source: Statistics Department



- 27 -
Table 9 Production and Exports of Principal Agricultural Products
Period          Coffee                           Cotton                Tobacco
Deliveries    ExporProduction    Expor    ExportsProduction         Expor
Tonnes   Tonnes      Tonnes   Tonnes      Tonnes     Tonnes Tonnes
Year
1986        159881   140800       3335      2800       4875         949          0
1987        167067   148153       3511      2100       3443        1214          0
1988        151157   144254       3512      3079       2088        2639         39
1989        169042   176453       4658      3195       2321        3456        490
1990        126550   142397       6704      4760       3808        3322       1922
Sourcest Coffee Marketing Board; Uganda Tea Authority; Lint Marketing Board;
B.A.T. (Uganda) Ltd.



- 28 -
Table 10         Production of SeLected Goods
Period           Sugar Beer (ex   Soft Cigarettes Textiles   Cement Electric Laundry
chibuku Drinks                                            Soap
Unit            Tonnes ooo Ltr ooo Ltr   Million  ooo Sq N   Tonnes ooo Kwh   Tonnes
Annual
1986                 0    6603    5049        1420      9733    16376  637200      3291
1987                 b   16484    7865        1435     10246    15904  611200    15772
1988              7534   21139   15733       1638      11472    14960  567400    18452
1989             15859   19516   17898        1586     11755    17378  660900    27110
1990             28913   19421   24273        1290      8152    26920  737900    30552
Source: Statistics Department, MPED.



- 29 -
Table 11          Index of Industrial Production (1987 - 100)
Period         Food    Drinks  TextilesLeather   Timber    Chemicat Bricks  Steel    Miscelt-
process-and     and      and       Paper      Paint &  and     & Steel  aneous   ALL ITEMS
ing     Tobacco ClothingFootwear  etc        Soap      Cement  products
No of
estabs            48++       12      13          7        19        16      11       17        17    160++
weight            20.7    26.1    16.3         2.3       9.0     12.3      4.3      5.3       3.7    100.0
Annual
1985              93.9    84.8    98.9       86.9       76.8     58.6   122.7    133.1    139.1       91.1
1986              85.3    82.2    92.9       90.0       72.0     58.8   120.6    105.9    141.0       86.1
1987             100.0   100.0   100.0       100.0     100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
1988             128.0   139.6   121.8       62.0      135.1    111.2    94.5      87.2    134.0    123.7
1989             153.7   143.7   132.7       62.9      169.4    162.9   109.0      98.9    204.2    145.2
1990             170.1   155.2   116.3        74.9     181.1    183.9   154.2    106.1    181.0    154.3
Source: Statistics Department, MPED.



- 30 -
Table 12 Balance of Payments (in millions of US Dollars)
1986/87   1987/88  1988/89 1989/90  1990/91
Exports, f.o.b.                                 383        298      288      185       176
Imports, c.i.f.                                -511       -614     -648    -618       -549
Trade balance                                  -129       -316     -360    -433       -373
Services (net)                                 -111       -142      -147    -116       -86
Unrequited transfers (net)                      140        248       283     288       290
Current account balance                        -100       -210     -224    -261       -238
Capital account balance                          22        147      117      216       133
Overall balance                                  79        -64     -107      -45      -105
Financing                                       -79         64      107       45       105
Of which: monetary authorities (net)           (21)      (-13)     (17)    (21)       (44)
exceptional financing         (92)       (40)     (58)    (43)      (72)
external arreas
(reduction -)             (-45)       (47)      (32)   (-19)       -10
Gross foreign reserves
(end of period)                                31        35        30       19       32
(in months of imports)                        0.8       0.7       0.6      0.4      0.7
Debt service ratio (as percent
of exports of goods and
non factor services)                         54.0      62.0      74.2    78.6      94.6
of which: IMF                                26.7      25.0      34.1    22.7      24.8
Source: Bank of Uganda



- 31 -
Table 13   Uganda:  Central Government Budgetary Operations, 1988/89-1990/91
1986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91
(In billions of Uganda shillings)
Revenue and grants            6.5    29.4    63.9   109.6    191.7
Total revenue               5.9    22.9    49.7    86.2    131.3
Tax revenue                 5.7    20.8    42.7    80.6    128.1
Nonta7 revenue              0.2     2.1      7.0     5.6      3.2
Grants                       0.6     6.5    14.2    23.3      60.4
Import support              ...     ...     7.9    15.6      40.9
Project grants              ...     ...      6.3     7.8     19.5
Total expenditure and net   11.0    44.3    89.7   170.0    252.4
Current expenditure          6.9    24.7    56.8   106.2    123.8
Wages and salaries           1.2     3.7      9.8    12.9     24.2
Interest                     0.5     2.3     5.8    10.6      18.8
Domestic                    0.2     0.6      0.6     7.4      1.3
External                    0.3     1.7      5.i     9.2     17.5
Other                        5.2    18.7    41.2    82.7      84.8
Development expenditure       4.1    19.6    30.9    63.7    124.6
Capital outlays              2.9    14.3    20.2    46.4      81.7
External financing          2.3    11.8    18.0    42.3      70.6
Domestic counterpart        0.6     2.5      2.2     4.2     11.1
Local capital                1.2     5.3    10.7    17.3      42.9
Net lending and investment                     1.9
Overall deficit (-) on a conmmitment
basis
Excluding grants           -4.5   -14.9    40.0   -83.7    121.1
Including grants           -5.1   -21.4   -25.8   -60.4      60.7
Change in arrears            -0.3    -1.5    -7.0    -9.3    -12.4
Overall deficit (-) on a    -4.5   -16.4   -32.8   -69.7    -73.1
Financing                                    32.8    69.7      73.1
External (net)               4.8    16.4    19.4    84.4      71.9
Disbursement                0.5     8.6    22.2    94.8      95.5
lIrport support            1.7    11.2    10.4    60.3      40.5
Amortization (-)             ..      ..   -13.6   -25.2    -50.5
Moratorlun interest C-)   -1.3    -4.6    -1.3    -0.4       -6.0
Rescheduling                     - -0.3    10.7    15.2      32.8
Domestic (net)                 -     2.4    -4.5   -14.7        1.2
Bank                        4.3     7.8    -5.0   -17.7      -2.4
Nonbank                     4.7     7.8      0.5     2.9      3.5
Memorandum items:
Domestic Revenue/GDP          3.0     7.0      5.6     5.9      7.6
Total expenditure/GDP        10.0    13.6    10.0    13.6       14.7
Overall deficit (-) on a    -4.6    -6.6    -3.7    -4.8        4.3
Source: Ministry of Finance



' 32 -
Table 14  Monetary Survey, 19S7-1990
(In billions of Uganda Shitlings)
1987     1988  1989    1990
June     June  June    June
Net foreign assets                 -13.0   -18.7 -64.9  -90.3
Total domestic bank credit (net)    8.2      24.2  68.4    79.7
Goverment                          4.1     11.9  26.4     9.2
Private sector                       4.1     12.3  421    70.5
Crop finance                       1.5      4.5  19.5    24.4
other                              2.6      7.8  22.6   46.1
Broad money                          8.8     26.8  60.2    94.4
Other items, net                    14.0     21.3  56.6   105.0
Sources: Bank of Uganda



- 33 -
Table 15 Structure of Interest Rates 1986-1990 (Percent per arvum)
1986           1987              1988          1989   1990
July           July              July        March   June
BANK OF UGANDA
Ways and Means                         5               5                15            15     14
Rediscount rate                       36              32                38           48      43
Bank rate to
Commercial Banks                    36              31                45           55      50
TREASURY BILLS
36 Days                               30              23                33           38      34
63 Days                               32              25                35           40      36
91 Days                               35              28                38           43      39
GOVERNMENT STOCKS
5 Years                               40              30                40           45      40
10 Years                              45              32                42           47      42
15 Years                                              35                45           50     45
COMMERCIAL BANKS
Deposit Rates:
Demand deposits                       10              7                15           20      18
Savings deposits                     28              18                28           33      30
Time Deposits
3-6 months                            25              15                28           33      30
4-12 months                           30              20                30           35      32
Minimun one year                      35              22                32           37      33
Lending Rates
Agriculture                           38       (a) 22-25      (a)    32-35    (a) 25-40      36
Export & Manufacturing                38
Comnerce                              40       Cb)   30      (b)        40    (b)    50      45
Unsecured                             42
Source: Bank of Uganda



- 34 -
Table 16 Exchange Rates (Ush/USS)
Official Market Premium of Market
Rate (1)Rate (2) over official rate (X)
1986 August               14      117           735
1987 May                 60       144           140
1988
July               150       481          221
Dec                 165      447           171
1989 March              Z00       466           133
October            340       620           82
November           370       714           93
December           375       730            95
1990
February           379       716           89
May                384       650           69
June               440       657           49
August             450       692           54
September          480       r, i          52
Noverber           510       751           47
December           540       772           42
C1)  Shows the rate established in a given month.
(2)  Shows the average rate for the month.
Source: Bank of Uganda



- 35 -
Table 17   Kaptala cost of living index middle income group
(April 1981=100)
Item      Food    Drink & Fuel &   Transport Clothing Other       Other  Weighted Annual X
Tobacco Lighting           & Textile Consumer  Manuf   average   Change
goods     foods    (CPI)
Weights       41.0    17.0       6.0      10.0     14.0    10.0       2.0   100.0
1987  May 6,793.7 4,404.2  6,703.4  4,020.3  18,112.4 5,810.9  6,583.4  7,586.9    360.7
June 5,111.5 2,891.7  6,594.9  4,020.3  17,742.0 3,666.1  5,166.7 6,338.9    233.2
Sept 7,492.9 4,358.3 23,456.8  4,821.6  18,985.7 4,554.5  4,666.7 8,909.4    278.2
Dec 12,177.7  7,100.0  23,772.5  4,821.6 23,467.0 8,039.4  7,000.0 12,337.7    163.0
1988  1arcl4,004.4 6,733.3  24,782.2  6,821.6  26,783.7 12,347.4  9,000.0 14,218.4    172.5
June2l,637.6  8,191.7  26,457.9  6,821.6  54,516.3 13,097.4  13,666.7 21,749.0    243.1
Sept24,127.6  9,820.8  29,065.3  21,821.6  62,848.8 12,882.3  17,833.3 25,931.7    191.1
Dec 25,735.9 9,366.7 33,914.3  21,821.6 64,892.6 12,582.3  15,000.0 27,004.3    118.9
1989  Marc28,494.4 13,370.8 118,206.2  15,821.6  78,680.6 15,096.4  15,500.0 35,465.2    149.4
June34,413.8 14,196.7 132,953.0  15,821.6  89,298.7 14,911.7 21,583.3 40,507.1  86.3
Sept46,623.5 15,575.0 141,543.3  15,821.6 83,561.8 15,128.1  22,500.0 45,499.6  75.5



-36 -
Table 18  New Consumer Price Index: KampaLa (December 1888 u 100)
Item           Food Drink &    Fuel & Transport  Clothing    Other      Other Weighted  Annul X
Tobacco  Lighting           & Textile Consumer     Manuf  average    Change
goods     foods   (CPI)
Weights        50.8      6.3       7.3       5.9       5.5      8.5       15.7    100.0
1989   Mar    119.0    126.3     102.4     106.8     115.7    104.4      124.1    116.9     111.0
Jun    145.6    133.8     140.2     106.5     115.5    128.5      158.2    141.0     106.4
Sept   160.7    156.8     125.6     120.6     115.1    135.5      182.8    154.4      65.1
Dec    178.2   182.3      117.2     142.6      120.2   145.7    184.0   166.9         66.9
1990  Mar    173.6   199.3       161.8     159.4    161.1    164.3    221.2    179.5         53.7
Jun    159.6   195.6    181.1       167.9    161.2   158.5    243.3    177.1          25.6
Sept   180.8    199.8     182.0    195.5    157.5   180.5    283.0   197.7            28.0
Dec    188.9   217.8    209.6    223.7    156.6   201.6    285.4   208.7              25.1
NOTE:  The ANNUAL PERCENTAGE CHANGE, i.e. the percentage increase in the Index for the
twelve months previously, can only be calculated in respect of the New Consumer Index
from December 4989 onwards. The percentage changes quoted above for earlier periods have
been derived as a composite, for the old Low Income Index up to December 1988, and th
new Consumer Price Index thereafter.
SOURCE:Statistics Department, Ministry of Planning and Economic Development.



- 37 -
Tbe,l 19       Average Market Prices for SeLected Consumer Goods, KampaLa
(Prices in shillings per unit indicated)
Period         Bananas   Maize  Ground     Sweet    Dry         Rice  Dry   Tomatoes   Onions
'Matoke)  meal    nuts  Potatoes   Cassava             Beans
Unit              kg      kg      kg       kg         kg       kg       kg      kg       kg
Quarter
1985 1st           0.8     2.5     9.5       0.9       1.9      5.4     3.1       4.5      6.7
2nd           1.1    3.0    16.9        1.0       2.2      7.7    5.4        4.5     13.9
3rd           1.2     3.6    13.9       1.7       2.5      8.2      4.3      3.8     14.9
4th           2.6     4.3    17.4       2.8       2.5      10.2     4.8      4.6     10.0
1986 1st           2.3     5.7    13.8       2.5       2.8      17.9    5.2       9.8     17.3
2nd           3.5     6.5    18.7       3.0       3.3    24.2    6.1         5.6     17.1
3rd           3.2     7.4    21.8       4.0       3.6    20.7       5.6      7.5     17.0
4th           5.9   10.6   40.9         6.4       5.8    26.8       8.9     10.3    28.5
1987 1st           7.2    17.0   43.2        8.6       7.2    47.1    14.0    10.2    35.2
2nd           9.1    23.8   58.9        7.6      10.3    59.7   26.8    35.2         50.7
3rd           6.4    26.6    61.4       8.1      17.9    43.6   40.3        57.7    66.1
4th          13.7   34.0   111.1       16.4      22.8    65.6   65.7    67.0    162.2
1988 1st          16.6    44.7   132.6      23.7      31.7    85.0   61.3    117.4    178.4
2nd          20.9   48.3   179.8       27.8      36.2   227.9   82.8    110.0    217.8
3rd          29.7   93.1  234.0        39.4      54.4   216.8  105.6   104.0    195.1
4th          34.2   111.7  274.2       55.1      57.3   201.8  108.6   117.5   223.6
1989 1st          38.0   135.8  255.4       36.1      60.0   251.8  113.9   133.2   199.0
2nd          44.4  202.3  455.0        50.0      78.0   323.7   199.8   172.9   390.2
3rd          48.3  284.7  387.6        79.3      93.4   321.0  182.5   214.0   438.9
4th          85.2  300.0  377.9        91.8      116.0   358.7  186.2   131.2    514.0
1990 1st          65.6   294.0   340.7      70.0     130.0    465.3   178.6    257.2    440.8
2nd          56.6  250.7  330.3        47.2     119.4   441.2  175.2   184.1    579.0
3rd          48.0  220.0  366.6        53.5     111.7   352.0  198.7   190.6   709.0
4th          81.7   264.0   535.9      89.0     111.7   404.0   263.9    172.8    546.6
Source: Statistics Department



- 38 -
Table 19      Average Market Prices for Selected Consumer Goods, Kaqala
(cont'd)                   (Prices in shillings per unit indicated)
Period          Sugar   Milk   Meat    Bread         Salt CharcoaL ParaffinCook oil     Soap
Pepsi         kg
Unit             Kg    Litre   kg            kg        kg       kg Litre  bottLe
Quarter
1985 1st          6.6     2.6   12.4        9.8       5.0      1.2    4.8      6.4    15.6
2nd          7.1     2.9   15.1       10.3       4.4      1.2    4.0       6.9    18.2
3rd          8.2    3.8   18.5        12.9       5.4      1.4    6.3       8.1     18.5
4 h          14.7    4.5   24.5       14.7       5.1      1.6    5.9    13.1    25.6
1986 1st         19.3    5.3   24.2        20.9       7.1      1.9    7.6    15.0    41.0
2nd          24.9    6.2   30.8       30.3      13.7      2.3    9.2    19.8    49.2
3rd          13.3    4.7   41.1       34.5      18.0      2.9   10.3    28.2    69.7
4th          16.0   11.3   59.4       47.2      16.9      3.7   11.3    28.2    74.1
1987 1st         89.6   20.9   96.5        67.4      19.2     7.6   21.7    48.9   162.7
2nd         89.8   25.8  122.0    103.8         27.9      9.8   56.7    57.2   152.4
3rd         56.7   41.7  112.7    106.7         32.7      7.8   20.0    46.1   133.5
4th         38.0   49.4  167.7    139.6         46.4    10.9   36.7    47.4   183.8
1988 1st         55.3   61.4  274.6    218.4    101.3    35.5  133.3    56.3   329.0
2nd         90.0   77.8  340.6    287.0         92.0    74.3  200.0   158.5   399.5
3rd        282.0  131.7  438.9    409.5    128.0    50.0  200.0   219.1   506.4
4th        233.5  143.3  460.0    390.0         96.0    41.7  200.0   198.1   411.2
1989 1st        360.0  150.2  486.6    423.6    101.3    57.1  126.5   213.9   300.0
2nd        484.6   149.6  581.4    580.0       125.7    59.9   168.7   225.9   300.0
3rd        463.4  202.8  592.3    691.0    139.7    74.4   188.3   242.2   306.7
4th        548.2  234.2  653.3    708.2    143.3    71.6  218.9   259.7   322.3
1990 1st        590.0  241.8  693.3    736.0        159.6    83.4  256.3   247.0   365.0
2nd        589.3  236.8  700.0    700.0    151.1    81.1  260.0   236.7   393.5
3rd        584.1  232.7  706.7    706.5    152.3    83.8  314.0   234.2   422.0
4th        580.0   236.7  800.0    730.0       172.3    90.6  473.9    237.5   446.3
Source: Statistics Department



-39-
Table 20 Producer Prices for Export Crops (USh/kg)
Year     Robusta  Arabica  Seed Cotton   Tea   Cocoa    Tobacco
Coffee   Coffee       (AR)       (GL)              (Flue)
1986         8.50    16.92         4.00     1.40      5.50    10.00
1987        24.00    43.66        19.00     5.00    22.00    38.00
1988        60.00   100.00       80.00    20.00    75.00   220.00
1989 May    60.00   100.00      130.00    35.00    75.00   410.00
1989 Dec    60.00   100.00      130.00    35.00    75.00   500.00
1990 May    60.00   100.00      160.00    35.00    75.00   500.00
1990 Sept   75.00   180.00      170.00    35.00    75.00   500.00
1990 Dec   120.00   350.00      220.00    55.00   150.00   620.00
Source:  Statistics Department



I                                . 40 -
Tsble 21 Consumer Prices of Petroleum Products
(Shillings per Litre)
Effective Month of Incre  Premium    Diesel Kerosene
1986    August                11.0        5.0      7.5
1987    March                 12.5        6.5      8.0
May                   30.0       198     14.4
June                  32.0      22.0      12.0
1988    January               38.0       27.0     16.0
July                  70.0      50.0      45.0
November              90.0      70.0      60.0
1989    March                120.0       90.0     75.0
July                 145.0     110.0      90.0
September            180.0     145.0    110.0
October              200.0      160.0    130.0
1990    February             250.0      195.0    175.0
June                 310.0     230.0    210.0
August               360.0     270.0    240.0
September            500.0     400.0    350.0
Source: Statistics Department



Tabte 22   DISBURSEMENT OF ERC 1 TO 30 JWIE 1991
IN US DOLLAR EQUIVALENTS
ORIGINAL USD
CREDIT/nANAGERENT         AGREEMENT SIGNED          EQYUVAKEET **    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    TOTAL **
.  ....... . .....  ..................... .......           . ..      . .    . ..     -  -     . ..      . .    ..  . . .
18440 TO 18443            30 SEPT 87/89             95.000            21.845  23.701  39.531   6.451  4.549   96.077
A0340 & A0341             31 NAR 89                 37.400            13.317   5.816   5.609  12.654  0.593   37.980
SIDA 1                    15 JULY 88                 4.700                      1.500   2.447   0.561              4.508
SIDA 2                    AUG 90                     5.000                                       1.021   3.356   4.377
DANIO                     24 MAR 88                  6.000                      1.500   2.885   0.691   0.686   5.762
FINLAND 1                 28 DEC 88                  7.000                              6.100   0.916              7.016
FINLAND 2                 21 FEB 90                  7.550                                       6.868             6.868
NORWAY                    17 APR 89                  3.000                                       2.374   0.013   2.387
CIDA                      24 APR 88                  12.000                     2.500   4.251   3.240   0.011   10.002
BRITISH                   MAR/NOV 1989              28.630                     17.827   6.970   2.844   0.192  27.477
S1iss 1                   22 DEC 88                  7.000                              4.025   1.294   1.200   6.519
SAUDI FUND                10 MAY 88                  4.500                               1.817   1.7M     0.943   4.533
ADF                                                 35.000                              25.961   6.871    1.609  34.441
252.780          35.162  52.844  99.596  47.193  13.152  247.947
** Difference due to exchange fluctuations.



