Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1844-UG
                                             (Third Amendment)
                    (Economic Recovery Program)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 27, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1844-UG
                                                 (Third Amendment)
                     THIRD AGREEMENT AMENDING
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 27,  1989,  between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA   (the   Borrower)   and   the   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Borrower  and  the  Association have entered
into a Development  Credit  Agreement (Economic Recovery Program),
dated September 30, 1987,  (the  Development Credit Agreement) for
the purpose of assisting in  the financing of the program referred
to in  Recital  (A)  of  the  Preamble  to  the Development Credit
Agreement (the Program);
     (B)  the Borrower and the  Association  have entered into two
Page  2
agreements dated March 31,  1989  and April 26, 1989, respectively
(the First Amending Agreement  and  the Second Amending Agreement)
amending the  Development  Credit  Agreement  for  the  purpose of
providing the Borrower with additional assistance in the financing
of the Program;
     (C)  the Borrower has  requested  the  Association to provide
further additional assistance towards the financing of the Program
by increasing  the  amount  made  available  under the Development
Credit Agreement by an amount  in various currencies equivalent to
one  million   two   hundred   thousand   Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 1,200,000); and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such further additional assistance to
the Borrower upon  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                   Amendments of the Development
                         Credit Agreement
     Section  1.01.  Section   1.02   of  the  Development  Credit
Agreement is amended by the deletion  of the word "and" at the end
of Subsection  (b)  thereof  and  the  replacement  of the ensuing
subsection by the following:
          "(c) "Special Account" means the  account referred to in
     Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
          (d)  "Third  Amending  Agreement"  means  the  Agreement
     Amending the Development  Credit Agreement (Economic Recovery
     Program) between  the  Borrower  and  the  Association, dated
     November 27, 1989.
     Section  1.02.  Section   2.01   of  the  Development  Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
          "Section 2.01. The  Association  agrees  to  lend to the
     Borrower, on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
     to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various
     currencies equivalent  to  seventy-two  million  four hundred
     thousand  Special  Drawing   Rights   (SDR  72,400,000)  (the
     Credit),  which  includes  an   original  amount  in  various
     currencies equivalent to fifty  million nine hundred thousand
     Special  Drawing   Rights   (SDR   50,900,000)  (the  Initial
     Financing) and three additional amounts in various currencies
     equivalent,  respectively,  to   one  million  three  hundred
     thousand Special Drawing  Rights  (SDR  1,300,000) (the First
     Additional  Financing),  nineteen   million  Special  Drawing
     Rights (SDR 19,000,000) (the Second Additional Financing) and
     one  million  two  hundred  thousand  Special  Drawing Rights
     (SDR 1,200,000) (the Third Additional Financing)."
     Section  1.03.  Section   2.02   of  the  Development  Credit
Agreement  is  amended  by  the  addition,  after  Subsection  (b)
thereof, of a new subsection reading as follows:
     "(c)  Except  as  the  Borrower  and  the  Association  shall
     otherwise  agree,  all  amounts  withdrawn  from  the  Credit
     Account or made subject  to  a special commitment pursuant to
     Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall:
          (i)  initially be charged against the Initial Financing,
               the  First  Additional   Financing  and  the  Third
               Additional Financing until  those amounts have been
               exhausted; and
Page  3
         (ii)  thereafter be charged against the Second Additional
               Financing."
     Section  1.04.  Section   2.03   of  the  Development  Credit
Agreement  is  amended  by  the  deletion  therefrom  of  the date
"September 30, 1989"  and  the  substitution  therefor of the date
"November 27, 1990".
     Section 1.05. A proviso is  added  at the end of Section 2.04
(a) of the Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
          "; provided, however, that  any commitment charge on the
     First Additional Financing  shall  accrue  from May 30, 1989,
     any commitment  charge  on  the  Second  Additional Financing
     shall accrue from June 24,  1989 and any commitment charge on
     the Third Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty
     (60) days after the date of the Third Amending Agreement."
     Section 1.06. The following paragraph  is added at the end of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
          "5. After March 31,  1990,  no withdrawals shall be made
     and no commitment shall be entered  into to pay amounts to or
     on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be
     financed  out  of  the   proceeds  of  the  First  Additional
     Financing. At any time after  such date, the Association may,
     by notice to the  Borrower,  cancel the unwithdrawn amount of
     the First Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any
     part thereof."
     Section 1.07. Subparagraph (g)  of  paragraph 2 of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement is deleted.
                            ARTICLE II
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished
to  the  Association  that  the  execution  and  delivery  of this
Agreement on behalf of the  Borrower  have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action.
     Section 2.02. As part  of  the  evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to Section 2.01 of  this Agreement, there shall be furnished
to the Association  an  opinion  or  opinions  satisfactory to the
Association of counsel acceptable  to  the Association showing, on
behalf  of  the  Borrower,  that  this  Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by,  and  executed  and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower  and  is  legally  binding  upon  the Borrower in
accordance with its terms.
     Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date  upon  which  the  Association  shall  dispatch to the
Borrower notice of  its  acceptance  of  the  evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. If  this  Agreement  shall  not  have come into
force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, this  Agreement  and  all  obligations  of  the parties
hereunder shall terminate,  unless  the  Association establishes a
later date for the  purposes  of  this  Section. If this Agreement
shall  terminate  under  the   provisions  of  this  Section,  the
Development Credit  Agreement  shall  continue  in  full force and
effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  4
                   THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                   By /s/ Steven Katenta-Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice-President
                                                            Africa
