Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                            AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-34 UG
                    (Economic Recovery Program)
                             between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                               and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      as ADMINISTRATOR of the
              SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
                     Dated September 30, 1987
                 AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 30,  1987, between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as
ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL  FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the
Administrator).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Executive  Directors  of  the International
Development  Association   (IDA)   have   established,   by  their
Resolution No.  IDA  85-1  of  May  21,  1985  (the Resolution), a
Special Facility  for  Sub-Saharan  Africa  (the African Facility)
constituted  by  the  funds  which  shall  be  contributed  by the
International Bank for  Reconstruction  and Development (the Bank)
and other donors and administered  by IDA, acting as Administrator
of the African Facility,  for  the  purpose  of, and in accordance
with, the provisions of the Resolution;
     (B)  the Administrator has received  a  letter, dated July 1,
1987,  from  the  Borrower   describing   a  program  of  actions,
objectives and policies  designed  to  achieve overall recovery of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring
the Borrower's commitment  to  the  execution  of  the Program and
requesting assistance from the  Administrator  in the financing of
Page  2
urgently needed imports  required  during  such execution, and the
Administrator has  determined  that  such  assistance  would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
     (C)  the  Borrower  has   also   requested   IDA  to  provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Program, and by
an agreement of even  date  herewith  between the Borrower and IDA
(the Development Credit  Agreement),  IDA  is  agreeing to provide
such assistance in  an  aggregate  principal  amount equivalent to
fifty  million  nine  hundred   thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 50,900,000) (the IDA Credit);
     (D)  the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administration
(hereinafter called ODA) intend  to  enter  into an agreement (the
ODA Agreement) pursuant to  which  a  financial contribution in an
amount of ten million  pounds  sterling (€10,000,000) will be made
to the  Borrower  by  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain and
Northern Ireland under the  Special  Joint Financing Agreement for
the Special African Facility (hereinafter called the ODA Financial
Contribution) in support of the Program;
     (E)  the Borrower and  the Canadian International Development
Agency (hereinafter called CIDA) intend to enter into an agreement
(the CIDA Grant Agreement) pursuant to which a grant will be made
to the Borrower by Canada  (hereinafter  called the CIDA Grant) in
an  amount  equivalent   to   fifteen   million  Canadian  dollars
(Can$15,000,000) in support of the Program;
     (F)  the Borrower  and  the  Danish International Development
Agency (hereafter called DANIDA) intend to enter into an agreement
(the DANIDA Grant Agreement)  pursuant  to  which  a grant will be
made to the  Borrower  by  Denmark  (hereinafter called the DANIDA
Grant),  in  an   amount   equivalent   to  five  million  dollars
($5,000,000) in support of the Program;
     (G)  the Borrower and  the  Swedish International Development
Authority  (hereinafter  called  SIDA)  intend  to  enter  into an
Agreement (the SIDA  Grant  Agreement)  pursuant  to which a grant
will be made to  the  Borrower  by  Sweden (hereinafter called the
SIDA Grant), in an amount equivalent to ten million Swedish kronor
(SKr 10,000,000) in support of the Program;
     WHEREAS the  Administrator  has  agreed  on  the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to  extend  the African Facility Credit to
the Borrower  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of  the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January  1,  1985,  with  the  modifications set forth
below (the General  Conditions),  constitute  an  integral part of
this Agreement:
     (a)  the term "Association", when  used in the General Condi-
tions, means the  International  Development Association acting as
Administrator  of  the  African  Facility,  except  in  the phrase
"member of the Association"  in  Sections  2.01  (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
     (b)  the terms "Development  Credit  Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are amended
to read  "African  Facility  Credit  Agreement", "African Facility
Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", respectively;
     (c)  the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  and  the  second
Page  3
sentence of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
     (d)  in Sections 6.02 and  7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the  International  Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC"  means  the  United  Nations  International Trade
Classification, 1986 Revision (SITC, Rev. 3);
     (b)  "U Sh"  means  Uganda  Shillings,  the  currency  of the
Borrower; and
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                    The African Facility Credit
     Section  2.01.  The  Administrator  agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower on the terms and  conditions  set forth or referred to in
the  African  Facility  Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in various
currencies equivalent to  eighteen  million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of the African Facility Credit
may be  withdrawn  from  the  African  Facility  Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank, on terms and  conditions  satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall be September 30, 1989,
or such  later  date  as  the  Administrator  shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly  notify  the  Borrower  of such later
date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower  shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate  of  one-half  of  one  percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount  of  the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to  time.  The  commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request;  (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of,  the  Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified  in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General  Conditions  or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may  from  time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall  pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of  one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the amount withdrawn  from  the African Facility Credit Account
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually  on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Page  4
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African  Facility  Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May  15  and  November 15, commencing November 15,
1997 and ending May  15,  2037.  Each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 15,  2007, shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be  one  and  one-half  percent  (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. (a) The Bank  of Uganda is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower  for  the  purposes of taking any action
required  or  permitted  to  be  taken  under  the  provisions  of
Section 2.02  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts  the  Bank  of Uganda with responsibility
for the preparation of  withdrawal  applications under the African
Facility Credit and for collection of documents and other evidence
to  be  furnished  to   the   Administrator  in  support  of  such
applications.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The  Borrower  and the Administrator shall,
from time to time at  the  request of either party, exchange views
on  the  progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Program,  the
Borrower's arrangements to monitor  such  progress and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Administrator, for its review and comment, a report
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the Program and such
actions, in  such  detail  as  the  Administrator shall reasonably
request.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Program and to be
financed out of the proceeds  of the African Facility Credit shall
be governed by the  provisions  of  Schedule  2 to this Agreement,
subject   to   the   eligibility   restrictions   set   forth   in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with  consistently  maintained  sound  accounting  practices,  the
expenditures financed out of the  proceeds of the African Facility
Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, for each  fiscal year, audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Administrator;
         (ii)  furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Administrator such other information
Page  5
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as  the  Administrator  shall  from time to
               time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one  year after the Admini-
               strator  has  received  the  audit  report  for the
               fiscal year in which  the  last withdrawal from the
               African  Facility  Credit  Account  was  made,  all
               records   (contracts,   orders,   invoices,  bills,
               receipts and other  documents)  as evidence of such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable  the   Administrator's   representatives  to
               examine such records upon prior notice; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section, and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Remedies of the Administrator
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  an event has  occurred  which  shall  make it improbable
that the Program, or a  significant  part thereof, will be carried
out;
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of any grant or credit (including the
                    IDA  Credit)  made  to  the  Borrower  for the
                    financing  of  the  Program  shall  have  been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in  part,  pursuant   to   the  terms  of  the
                    agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any such  credit  shall  have  become  due and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the  Administrator   that:   (A)  such  suspension,
               cancellation,  termination  or  prematuring  is not
               caused by the  failure  of  the Borrower to perform
               any of its  obligations  under  such agreement; and
               (B) adequate funds for the Program are available to
               the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
               tions  consistent  with   the  obligations  of  the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to  the proviso of sub-
Page  6
paragraph (ii) of that paragraph.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                   Designation of Administrator
     Section  5.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to the  effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that  all  conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development  Credit  Agreement except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.03. In the  event  that  the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the  functions  of IDA as Administrator of
the African Facility, pursuant to  paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the  Administrator  may,  by  notice  to  the  Borrower, designate
another party which, on the  date  specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of  the  rights  and obligations of the Admini-
strator under this Agreement,  in  accordance with the Resolution,
and such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in such
notice.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of  Finance  of the Borrower is designated
as  representative   of   the   Borrower   for   the  purposes  of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 8147
          Kampala, Uganda
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               FINSEC                            61170
               Kampala
          For the Administrator:
          Administrator of the African Facility
            (International Development Association)
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  7
                   THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                   By /s/ C.W.C.B. Kiyonga
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
                   FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
                   By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds
                  of the African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be with-
drawn from the  African  Facility  Credit Account for expenditures
made (or, if the  Administrator  shall  so  agree,  to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco,    unmanufactured
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
        -        718.7                  Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts     thereof,    fuel
                                        elements     (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
        -        897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
Page  8
     971            -                   Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR  3,800,000  may be made on account
of payments made for such  expenditures before that date but after
May 15, 1987;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than five thousand dollars $5,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the  Administrator  shall  have  financed  or agreed to
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 3,800,000 for petroleum products.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made,  and  no  commitment shall be
entered into, for payments to the Borrower or others in respect of
expenditures to be financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the African
Facility Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account
and the total amount  of  such  commitments shall have reached the
equivalent of SDR  10,400,000,  unless  the Administrator shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement:
     (a)  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in the
carrying out of the Program; and
     (b)  that  the  actions  described  in  Schedule  3  to  this
Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after such exchange of views, the Administrator is not so
satisfied, and this situation shall not have been rectified by the
Borrower within  (90)  ninety  days  after  notice  thereof by the
Administrator, the Administrator may,  by  notice to the Borrower,
cancel the amount of the  African Facility Credit unwithdrawn from
the African Facility Credit Account or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods, estimated to cost the
equivalent of two million dollars ($2,000,000) or more each, shall
be awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures consistent with those  set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", published by  the  Bank  in  May  1985 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, invitations to apply for prequalification or
     invitations to  bid.  Such  advertisements  should  be placed
Page  9
     in at  least  one  newspaper  of  general  circulation in the
     Borrower's country and, in addition,  in  at least one of the
     following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
     (d)  All references in  the  Guidelines  to  the  Bank and to
loans shall be deemed  to  be  references to the Administrator and
the African Facility Credit, respectively.
2.   (a)  Contracts for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than  two  million  dollars  ($2,000,000)  to  be procured by
private entities and contractors, shall be awarded on the basis of
the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
     (b)  Contracts for goods to be  procured by the Borrower, its
political subdivisions  or  state-owned  enterprises, estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than two million dollars ($2,000,000),
may be awarded on the  basis  of the normal procurement procedures
of the purchaser  of  such  goods,  and  such  procedures shall be
satisfactory to the Administrator.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the  Borrower  shall  furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal  of  funds  from  the  African Facility Credit
Account in respect of such  contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the  analysis  of  the respective bids and
recommendations for award,  a  description  of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed, and  such  other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the  Borrower  shall  furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal  of  funds  from  the  African Facility Credit
Account in respect thereof,  such documentation and information as
the Administrator  may  reasonably  request  to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account,  the copies of such contract
or  documentation  and   information   to   be  furnished  to  the
Association  pursuant  to  the   provisions   of  paragraph  3  or
paragraph 4  of  this  Schedule,  as  the  case  may  be, shall be
furnished to the Administrator  as  part  of the evidence required
under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on  account  of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the African Facility Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
Page  10
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  3.03  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower has  prepared  and  adopted  a public investment
program satisfactory to the  Administrator for its 1988/90-1990/91
fiscal years.
2.   The Borrower  has  consulted  with  the  Administrator on its
proposals   based   on   a   methodology,   satisfactory   to  the
Administrator, for the revision  of  its  May 1987 producer prices
for export crops.
3.   The Borrower has adopted:
     (a)  an  open  general   licensing   system  giving  eligible
producers in priority industries  access  to foreign exchange upon
request for the importation of eligible imports; and
     (b)  following a review of  the implementation of the system,
a plan of action, satisfactory to the Administrator, for expanding
its coverage.
4.   The Borrower has finalized  an  action plan for restructuring
the  public  enterprise  (industrial  and  non-industrial) sector,
including a classification of enterprises  to be maintained in the
Borrower's portfolio, liquidated, or wholly or partly privatized.
5.   The  Borrower's  Verification  Committee  has  completed  the
verification  of  the  ownership   of   a  significant  number  of
industrial enterprises and the  Borrower  has  submitted a plan of
action, satisfactory to the  Administrator,  for the completion of
the verification and valuation  of  all properties and enterprises
subject to the Expropriated Properties  Act, and for the return to
former owners or sale of such properties and enterprises.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
African Facility  Credit  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
$10,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the  African  Facility Credit
Account  and  deposited  into  the  Special  Account  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the  Administrator  shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account  shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the  Administrator  has  received satisfactory evidence
that the Special Account has  been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the  Administrator  shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw  from  the  African Facility Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
Page  11
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Administrator shall specify. On  the  basis  of such requests, the
Administrator shall  withdraw  from  the  African  Facility Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to  replenish  the  Special  Account  with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments  made  out of the Special Account
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by
the Administrator from the African  Facility Credit Account in the
respective equivalent  amounts  as  shall  have  been justified by
the evidence supporting  the  request  for  such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator,  prior  to  or  at  the  time  of such request,
such documents  and  other  evidence  as  the  Administrator shall
reasonably  request,  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when  either of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the Administrator  shall  have  determined that all
               further withdrawals  can  be  made  by the Borrower
               directly from the  African  Facility Credit Account
               in accordance with the  provisions  of Article V of
               the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
               2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total  unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  African
               Facility   Credit,   minus   the   amount   of  any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Administrator  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Program,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the African Facility Credit
Account  of  the  remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  African
Facility Credit shall follow  such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and  to the extent that the Administrator
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall  have  determined at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice  from  the Administrator, deposit into
the Special Account (or,  if  the  Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit  by  the  Administrator  into  the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Administrator shall  have  determined at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator  such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.
Page  12
