Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1844 UG
                                             (Second Amendment)
                    (Economic Recovery Program)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 26, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1844 UG
                                                (Second Amendment)
                     SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  April  26,  1989,  between  THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Borrower  and  the  Association have entered
into a Development  Credit  Agreement (Economic Recovery Program),
dated September 30, 1987  (the  Development Credit Agreement), for
the purpose of assisting in  the financing of the program referred
to in  Recital  (A)  of  the  Preamble  to  the Development Credit
Agreement (the Program);
     (B)  the Borrower and the Association have on March 31, 1989,
entered into  an  Amending  Agreement  to  the  Development Credit
Agreement  (the  First  Amending  Agreement)  for  the  purpose of
providing the Borrower with additional assistance in the financing
of the Program;
Page  2
     (C)  the Borrower has  requested  the  Association to provide
additional assistance  towards  the  financing  of  the Program by
increasing the amount made  available under the Development Credit
Agreement  by  an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to
nineteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,000,000); and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing,  to  provide  such  additional assistance to the
Borrower  upon  the  terms  and   conditions  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
          Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
     Section  1.01.  Section   1.02   of  the  Development  Credit
Agreement  is  amended  by  deleting  the  "and"  at  the  end  of
Subsection (b),  substituting  ";  and"  for  "."  at  the  end of
Subsection (c) and adding a new Subsection (d) as follows:
          "(d)  'Second  Amending   Agreement'  means  the  Second
     Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Economic
     Recovery Program) between  the  Borrower  and the Association
     dated April 26, 1989.
     Section  1.02.  Section   2.01   of  the  Development  Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
          "Section 2.01. The  Association  agrees  to  lend to the
     Borrower, on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
     to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various
     currencies  equivalent  to  seventy-one  million  two hundred
     thousand Special  Drawing  Rights  (SDR  71,200,000) in three
     tranches,  the  first  tranche  being  an  amount  in various
     currencies equivalent to fifty  million nine hundred thousand
     Special Drawing Rights (SDR  50,900,000) (the First Tranche),
     the second  tranche  being  an  amount  in various currencies
     equivalent to  one  million  three  hundred  thousand Special
     Drawing Rights (SDR 1,300,000)  (the  Second Tranche) and the
     third  tranche  being   an   amount   in  various  currencies
     equivalent  to  nineteen   million   Special  Drawing  Rights
     (SDR 19,000,000) (the Third Tranche)."
     Section  1.03.  Section   2.02   of  the  Development  Credit
Agreement is redesignated as paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 and the
following new paragraph (b) is added thereto:
          "(b)  Except as the  Borrower  and the Association shall
          otherwise agree, all  amounts  withdrawn from the Credit
          Account or made subject to a special commitment pursuant
          to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall:
          (i)  initially be charged against  the First Tranche and
               the Second Tranche  until  those Tranches have been
               exhausted; and
         (ii)  thereafter be charged against the Third Tranche."
     Section  1.04.   A   proviso   is   added   at   the  end  of
Section 2.04 (a) of  the  Development  Credit Agreement reading as
follows:
               "; provided,  however,  that  commitment charges on
          the Third Tranche shall  accrue  from  a date sixty (60)
          days after the date of the Second Amending Agreement."
     Section 1.05. Subparagraph (g)  of  paragraph 2 of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement is deleted.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE II
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become
effective  until:  (a)  satisfactory   evidence  shall  have  been
furnished to the Association  that  the  execution and delivery of
this Second Amending Agreement,  on  behalf  of the Borrower, have
been duly authorized  or  ratified  by  all necessary Governmental
action; and (b) the First Amending Agreement has become effective.
     Section  2.02.  As  part  of  the  evidence  to  be furnished
pursuant  to  Section  2.01  of  this  Agreement,  there  shall be
furnished to the Association  an opinion or opinions, satisfactory
to the Association,  of  counsel,  acceptable  to the Association,
showing, on behalf of the  Borrower,  that this Agreement has been
duly authorized or  ratified  by,  and  executed  and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and  is  legally binding upon the Borrower
in accordance with its terms.
     Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which  the Association dispatches to the Borrower
notice of its acceptance of  the evidence required by Section 2.01
of this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. If  this  Agreement  shall  not  have come into
force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, this  Agreement  and  all  obligations  of  the parties
hereunder shall terminate,  unless  the  Association establishes a
later date for the  purposes  of  this  Section. If this Agreement
shall  terminate  under  the   provisions  of  this  Section,  the
Development Credit  Agreement  as  amended  by  the First Amending
Agreement, shall continue in  full  force  and  effect, as if this
Agreement had not been executed.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                   By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
