Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1844 UG
                    (Economic Recovery Program)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated September 30, 1987
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1844 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 30,  1987, between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a letter, dated
July 1, 1987, from the  Borrower  describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies  designed  to  achieve overall recovery of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution      of the Program and
requesting assistance from  the  Association  in  the financing of
urgently needed imports required during such execution;
     (B)  the Borrower has also  requested the Association, acting
as Administrator  of  a  Special  Facility  for Sub-Saharan Africa
(the African Facility), established  by its Executive Directors by
Resolution No. IDA 85-1  of  May  21,  1985, to provide additional
assistance in support of the Program  and, by an agreement of even
date herewith, between the Borrower and the Association as Admini-
strator of  the  African  Facility  (the  African  Facility Credit
Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance
in an aggregate  principal  amount  equivalent to eighteen million
Page  2
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,800,000);
     (C)  the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administration
(hereinafter called ODA) intend  to  enter  into an agreement (the
ODA Agreement) pursuant to  which  a  financial contribution in an
amount of ten million  pounds  sterling (€10,000,000) will be made
to the  Borrower  by  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain and
Northern Ireland under the  Special  Joint Financing Agreement for
the Special African Facility (hereinafter called the ODA Financial
Contribution) in support of the Program;
     (D)  the Borrower and  the Canadian International Development
Agency (hereinafter called CIDA) intend to enter into an agreement
(the CIDA Grant Agreement) pursuant to  which a grant will be made
to the Borrower by Canada  (hereinafter  called the CIDA Grant) in
an  amount  equivalent   to   fifteen   million  Canadian  dollars
(Can$15,000,000) in support of the Program;
     (E)  the Borrower  and  the  Danish International Development
Agency (hereafter called DANIDA) intend to enter into an agreement
(the DANIDA Grant Agreement)  pursuant  to  which  a grant will be
made to the  Borrower  by  Denmark  (hereinafter called the DANIDA
Grant),  in  an   amount   equivalent   to  five  million  dollars
($5,000,000) in support of the Program;
     (F)  the Borrower and  the  Swedish International Development
Authority  (hereinafter  called  SIDA)  intend  to  enter  into an
Agreement (the SIDA  Grant  Agreement)  pursuant  to which a grant
will be made to  the  Borrower  by  Sweden (hereinafter called the
SIDA Grant), in an amount equivalent to ten million Swedish kronor
(SKr 10,000,000) in support of the Program;
     (G)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Associa-
tion has decided,  in  support  of  the  Program,  to provide such
assistance to the  Borrower  by  making  the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
     the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Development Credit
     Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six  months  after the Closing Date,
     or such later date as may  be agreed for this purpose between
     the Borrower and the  Association, the Borrower shall prepare
     and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
     such detail as the  Association  shall reasonably request, on
     the execution of the Program  referred  to in the Preamble to
     the Development  Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
     Borrower and the Association  of their respective obligations
     under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
     of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions,  and  in the
Page  3
Preamble to this Agreement,  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  United  Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1986 Revision (SITC, Rev. 3);
     (b)  "U Sh"  means  Uganda  Shillings,  the  currency  of the
Borrower; and
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifty million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 50,900,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall be September 30, 1989,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty (60) days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  May  15 and November 15,
commencing November  15,  1997,  and  ending  May  15,  2027. Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on May 15,
2007, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
Page  4
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and, after their due
consideration of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment  of  installments under paragraph (a) above
by requiring the Borrower to  repay  twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until  the  principal amount of the Credit
shall have been  repaid.  If  so  requested  by  the Borrower, the
Association may revise such  modification  to  include, in lieu of
some or all of the  increase  in the amounts of such installments,
the  payment  of  interest  at  an  annual  rate  agreed  with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. (a) The Bank  of Uganda is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower  for  the  purposes of taking any action
required  or  permitted  to  be  taken  under  the  provisions  of
Section 2.02  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts  the  Bank  of Uganda with responsibility
for the preparation  of  withdrawal  applications under the Credit
and for collection of documents and other evidence to be furnished
to the Association in support of such applications.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  The  Borrower  and  the Association shall,
from time to time at  the  request of either party, exchange views
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, for  its  review and comment, a report
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the Program, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with  consistently  maintained  sound  accounting  practices,  the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal year, audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
Page  5
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as  the  Association  shall,  from  time to
               time, reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the  audit  report for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts  and  other documents) as
               evidence of such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records upon prior notice; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section, and that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  an event has  occurred  which  shall  make it improbable
that the Program, or a  significant  part thereof, will be carried
out;
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of any grant or credit (including the
                    African Facility Credit)  made to the Borrower
                    to  finance  the   Program   shall  have  been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in  part,  pursuant   to   the  terms  of  the
                    agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any such  credit  shall  have  become  due and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply,
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association, that:
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation  or termination
Page  6
                    is not caused by  the  failure of the Borrower
                    to perform any  of  its obligations under such
                    agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Program are available
                    to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms
                    and conditions consistent with the obligations
                    of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to  the proviso of sub-
paragraph (ii) of that paragraph.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that  all  conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the African Facility Credit Agreement, except for
the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of  Finance  of the Borrower is designated
as  representative   of   the   Borrower   for   the  purposes  of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 8147
          Kampala, Uganda
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                FINSEC                           61170
                Kampala
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
Page  7
written.
                   THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                   By /s/ C.W.C.B. Kiyonga
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of  the  Credit  may  be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in  respect  of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
      112         -                     Alcoholic beverages
      121         -                     Tobacco,    unmanufactured
                                        tobacco refuse
      122         -                     Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525         -                     Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667         -                     Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
     Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
        -        718.7                  Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts     thereof,    fuel
                                        elements     (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
        -        897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
Page  8
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
     971            -                   Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR  10,200,000 may be made on account
of payments made for such  expenditures before that date but after
May 15, 1987;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than five thousand dollars $5,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution or agency,
other than  the  Association,  shall  have  financed  or agreed to
finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to SDR 10,200,000 for petroleum products.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into for payments to the  Borrower or others in respect of
expenditures to be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the Credit
after the aggregate of the  proceeds  of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account, and the total amount of such commitments shall
have  reached  the  equivalent   of  SDR  28,300,000,  unless  the
Association shall be  satisfied,  after  an  exchange  of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
     (a)  with  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Borrower  in the
carrying out of the Program; and
     (b)  that  the  actions  described  in  Schedule  3  to  this
Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after such exchange of  views,  the Association is not so
satisfied, and this situation shall not have been rectified by the
Borrower within  (90)  ninety  days  after  notice  thereof by the
Association, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the  amount  of  the  Credit  unwithdrawn  from  the Credit
Account or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods, estimated to cost the
equivalent of two million dollars ($2,000,000) or more each, shall
be awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures consistent with those  set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits", published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), sub-
ject to the following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines  is deleted and the fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
Page  9
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, invitations  to  apply for prequalification,
     or invitations to bid.  Such  advertisements should be placed
     in at  least  one  newspaper  of  general  circulation in the
     Borrower's country and, in addition,  in  at least one of the
     following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   (a)  Contracts for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than  two  million  dollars  ($2,000,000)  to  be procured by
private entities and contractors, shall be awarded on the basis of
the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
     (b)  Contracts for goods to be  procured by the Borrower, its
political subdivisions  or  state-owned  enterprises, estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than two million dollars ($2,000,000),
may be awarded on the  basis  of the normal procurement procedures
of the purchaser  of  such  goods,  and  such  procedures shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two  conformed  copies  of  such contract, together
with the analysis of  the  respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of  the  advertising and tendering procedures
followed and  such  other  information  as  the  Association shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of  funds  from  the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to  support  withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account,  the copies of such contract
or  documentation  and   information   to   be  furnished  to  the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph
4 of this Schedule, as the case  may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the  evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
Page  10
accordance with Section 3.03 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower has  prepared  and  adopted  a public investment
program satisfactory to  the  Association  for its 1988/90-1990/91
fiscal years.
2.   The  Borrower  has  consulted  with  the  Association  on its
proposals based on a methodology, satisfactory to the Association,
for the revision of its May 1987 producer prices for export crops.
3.   The Borrower has adopted:
     (a)  an  open  general   licensing   system  giving  eligible
producers in priority industries  access  to foreign exchange upon
request for the importation of eligible imports; and
     (b)  following a review of  the implementation of the system,
a plan of action,  satisfactory  to the Association, for expanding
its coverage.
4.   The Borrower has finalized  an  action plan for restructuring
the  public  enterprise  (industrial  and  non-industrial) sector,
including a classification of enterprises, to be maintained in the
Borrower's portfolio, liquidated or wholly or partly privatized.
5.   The  Borrower's  Verification  Committee  has  completed  the
verification  of  the  ownership   of   a  significant  number  of
industrial enterprises and the  Borrower  has  submitted a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Association, for the completion of the
verification  and  valuation  of  all  properties  and enterprises
subject to the Expropriated Properties  Act, and for the return to
former owners or sale of such properties and enterprises.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with  the  provisions  of  Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from  the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After  the  Association  has  received  satisfactory evidence
that the Special Account has  been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Page  11
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account  in the respective equivalent amounts
as shall  have  been  justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals  can  be  made  by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit, minus
               the amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
               entered  into  by   the   Association  pursuant  to
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
               to the Program, shall be equal to the equivalent of
               twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawals from  the  Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the  Credit shall follow such pro-
cedures  as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
Page  12
