Docum-ent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1879-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
May 3, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiro Cr$
Cr$ 15.435    = US$1.00 a/
Cr$ 1,543.50  = US$100.00
Cr$ 15,435.00 = US$1,000.00
Cr$ 1 million = US$64,785.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 Kilogram (kg)                                   = 2.20 pounds
1,000 kg                   = 1 metric ton          = 0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                                        = 1.09 yards   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                      2            = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)         2 = 10,000 m                = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometSr (km )  = 100 ha                 = 0.39 square mile
1 cubic meter (m )                                 = 25.39 cubic feet
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(see pp i - ii)
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE ASSISTENCIA TECNICA
E EXTENSAO RURAL (EMBRATER)
January 1 - December 31
a/ Selling rate November 30, 1977



FUR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ABCAR          - Associa,ao Brasileira de Credito e Assistencia Rural
(Brazilian Association for Credit and Rural AssistancB)
ACAR           - Associa,ao de Credito e Assistencia Rural
(Credit and Rural Extension Agency)
ASTER            Associa,co do Asistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural (Territorio)
(Agency for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (Territory)
BB             - Banco do Brasil
(Federal Bank)
BID            - Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento
(IDB - Inter-American Development Bank)
BNB            - Banco do Nordeste do Brasil,S.A.
(Bank of Northeastern Brazil)
BNCC           - Banco Nacional de Credito Cooperativo
(National Cooperative Credit Bank)
CATI           - Coordenadora de Assistencia Tecnica Integra&d
(Office of Coordination of Integral Technical Assistance)
CEPLAC         - Comissao Executiva de Plano da Lavoura Cacaueira
(Commission for Recuperation of Cacao Culture in Rural Areas)
CFP            - Comissao de Financiamento da Producao
(Production Financing Commission)
* CIBRAZEM       - Campanhia Brasileira de Armazenamento
(Brazilian Storage Company)
CNAE           - Campanhia Nacional de Alimentacao para Escola
(National School Food Campaign
COBAL          - Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Brazilian Food Company)
COMPATER       - Comissao Nacional de Pesquisa Agropecuaria, Assistencia Tecnica
e Extensao Rural
(National Commission for Agricultural Research, Technical Assistance
and Rural Extension)
CONAB          - Conselho Nacional de Abastecimento
(National Food Supply Council)
CONCRED        - Comissao Nacional de Credito Rural
(National Rural Credit Commission)
CONDEPE        - Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Pecuaria
(Council for the Development of Livestock)
DIPOA          - Departamento de Inspecao  de Produtos de Origen Animal
(Department of Inspection of Products from Animal Origin)
DNOCS          - Departmento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department for Anti-drought Operations)
DNSC           - Departamento Nacional de Servicos de Comercializacao
(National Department of Marketing Services)
EMATER         - Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Corporation)
EMBRAPA        - Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation)
ENBRATER       - Empresa Brasileira de Assist^ncia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Corporation)
FUNRURAL       - Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural
(Fund for Welfare Assistance to Rural Workers)
IBC            - Instituto Brasileiro do Cafe
(Brazilian Coffee Institute)
ICM            - Imposto sobre Circulasao de Mercadorias
(Circulation of Merchandise Tax)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autt orilation.



- ii. -
INAN           - Instituto Nacional de Alimentagao  e Nutri,ao
(National Institute for Food and Nutrition)
INCRA          - instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
MA             - Ministerio da Agricultura
(Ministry of Agriculture)
MEC            - Ministerio da Educa,ao e Cultura
(Ministry of Education and Culture)
PIASS          - Programa de Interioriza,ao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
(Rural Health Program)
PIN            - Programa para Integraqao Nacional
(Program for National Integration)
-POLAMAZONIA    - Programa de Polos Agropecuarios e Agrominerais da Amazonia
(Program for Agricultural and Agro-mineral Nuclei in Amazonia)
POLOCENTRO     - Programa de Polos Agropecuarios da Area Central
(Program for the Development of the Central-West)
POLONORDESTE   - Programa de Desenvolvimento das Xreas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast)
PROTERRA       - Programa de Redistribuigao de Terras e de Estimulos a Agro-industria
do Norte e    Nordeste
(Program for Land Redistribution and Agricultural Incentives in
the North and Northeast)
SEPLAN         - Secretaria de Planejamento
(Federal Planning Office)
SIBRATER       - Sistema Brasileiro de ATER
(Brazilian System for Rural Extension - Federal level)
SNIR           - Sistemn Nacional de Informaeao Rural
(National System for Rural Information Services)
SUDAM          - Superintendencia para o Desenvolvimento da Amazonia)
(Superintendency for the Development of Amazonia)
SUDECO         - Superintendencia para o Desenvolvimento do Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Central-West)
SUDECOOP       - Superintendencia de Cooperativismo
(Superintendency of Cooperatives)
SUDENE         - Superintendencia para Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ............................              I
A.  The Sector in the Economy .... ..............                 I
B.  Land Distribution and Use ....        ..................      2
C.  Agricultural Development Policy ................              4
D.  Agricultural Support Services ..................              5
E.  Bank's Participation in the Sector .............              8
II.   AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION  ............................             10
A.  Historical Perspective .........................             10
B.  Present Status of Agricultural Extension .......             11
C.  Interactions with Other Agricultural Services ..             15
III.   THE PROJECT ........................................             18
A.  Introduction .................   .. ................         18
B.  Description, Objectives and Scope ..............             18
C.  Detailed Features ..............   .. ..............        20
D.  Project Costs ................   .. ................         21
E.  Financing .................... ..................           23
F.  Procurement .................   .. .................        24
G.  Disbursement .................   .. ................        24
H. Accounts and Audit    ,  ..                                  25
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................             26
A.  Organization and Management ....         ................   26
B.  Field Implementation and Extension Methodology .            27
C.  Staff Training and Technical Assistance ........            33
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ......................            34
V.   PRODUCTION AND TECHNOLOGY ..........................             37
The project is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during June-July 1977. The mission comprised Messrs. R.P. Armour
(Mission Leader), G. Ashkenazi, K. Kwaku and C. Vidalon (Bank), and A. Apodaca,
G. Hull, A. Ramirez and G. Kawata (Consultants).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   DEMAND AND MARKET PROSPECTS ............................   40
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   41
A.  Beneficiaries and Target Population Groups ........   41
B.  Cost Recovery ......      ...............................  41
C.  Economic Analysis .....       ............................    42
D.  Social Benefits    ....................   43
E.  Project Risks ......      ...............................  43
VIII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......    44



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES                                                               Page No.
1.   Monitoring  and  Evaluation  ....................................  46
2. Economic and Social Benefits .................................    49
List of Tables
1. Target Population Basic Data .............................    54
2.  Incremental Production Attributable to Project .... .......    55
3.    Project  Base  Costs  .......................................  56
4.  Project Costs and Incremental Value of Production ........    57
3.  Supporting Tables and Charts
T-1  Area, Population and Demographic Density ....   ...........    58
T-2  Land Distribution and Ownership ........................    59
T-3  Gross Domestic Product and Agricultural Product ........    60
T-4  Area Yield and Total Annual Production for
Basic Food and Export Crops ......................      61
T-5  Performance of Ten Major Export Crops ....    ..............    62
T-6  Distribution of Agricultural Properties by Size ........    63
T-7  Allocation of Land to Crops and Livestock ....  ..........    64
T-8  Regional Distribution of Extension Units (1977) ........    65
T-9  Rural Population and Number of Farmers Receiving Extension
Service Assistance (1977) ............................    66
T-10 Number, Level and Distribution of Technical Staff  ......    67
T-11 Incremental Staff Appointments by Program Emphasis  .....   68
T-12  Incremental Staff Appointments by Category .... .........    69
T-13  Incremental Staff Appointments by Regional Emphasis  ....    70
T-14  Incremental Staff Appointments by Project Year .........    71
T-15 Cost Estimates per Program by Project Year ....  .........    72
T-16 Regional Distribution of Project Costs ....   .............    73
T-17 Proposed Financing Plan and Allocation of Loan Proceeds    74
T-18 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....    ................    75
T-19 Technical Assistance - Consultants - Manyears .... ......    76
T-20 Physical Targets for Project Development Programs   ......   77
C-1  Organization Chart:  EMBRATER/EMATER Structures
and  Function  .........................................  78
C-2  Organization Chart:  EMATER - Structure Common
to  all  Agencies   ......................................  79
C-3  Brazil's Agricultural Policy - Summary Chart .... .......    80
C-4  Civil Works:  Construction Schedule ....    ................    81
C-5  Implementation Schedule by Project Years ....   ...........    82
C-6  Summary of Program Objectives and Implementation   .......    83
4.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File ........   84
MAPS
BRAZIL: Major Regions and Location of Training Centers (IBRD No. 13120)
BRAZIL: Physical Features (IBRD No. 13416)






BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
L. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. The Sector in the Economy
Geography
1.01      Brazil, which occupies almost 2half of the South American continent
has a total land area of 8.5 million km (Annex 3, Table 1). Although
geographic, topographic and climatic features are favorable to plant and animal
production in over 85% of the country, the majority of this area (60.5%) is in
native forest and natural woodland (Annex 3, Table 2). Only 4.3% is in
permanent cropping and a further 19.8% in improved or permanent pasture. The
Brazilian topography is of pirticular significance from an agricultural stand-
point. About 4.9 million km or 58% of the total land area, is at elevations
of less than 300 meters and much of it is relatively flat or rolling terrain
conducive to mecha2ized agriculture. In the range of 300 to 599 meters, there
are 2.3 million km or 27.4%. Finally, the area of highest elevations (600-
2,890 meters), represents only 14.6% of total area, but here also, at levels
of approximately 800 to 1,200 meters, there are large areas of flat table
lands suitable for agricultural production. It is evident, therefore, that
in fundamental terms the country has great agricultural potential and the
development that has already occurred, though substantial, is merely the fore-
runner of much greater development in the future. The factors most limiting
to agricultural expansion are poorly developed support services, poor infra-
structure where Brazil's sheer size plays a dominant role, and the general
low natural fertility of many of the soils, particularly in the underdeveloped
regions of the Central-West and North (see Map Nos. IBRD 13120 and 13416).
Gross National Product
1.02      Brazil's economy has traditionally maintained a strong agricultural
base. The relative importance of agriculture (Annex 3, Table 3) has shown
a gradual decline in overall contribution to GNP during the past decade (from
13.3% in 1966 to 10.5% in 1975) but agriculture still provides over 60% by
value of merchandise exports. Recent significant increases in the value of
agricultural export crops, particularly for coffee, cacao and soybeans, have
now moved Brazil into third place among the world's exporting countries of
agricultural produce.  The relative growth of Brazil's agriculture during the
period 1968-76 is shown overleeaf:



- 2 -
ANNUAL GDP SECTORIAL GROWTH, 1968-76
(percent)
Average
1968-73       1974        1975        1976
Agriculture                             5.3          8.5         3.4        4.2
Industry                               13.0          8.2        4.2        10.9
Manufacturing                       (13.6)        (7.6)       (3.8)     (10.5)
Civil construction                  (10.5)       (11.2)       (3.8)     (12.8)
Public utilities                    (11.9)       (12.0)      (10.2)     (10.1)
Services                               10.3         10.8        4.4         8.8
GDP                               10.2         9.6         4.2         8.8
Source:  Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV), October 15, 1977.
1.03      The growth in crop value for the period 1973-75, has come mainly
from coffee, soybeans, cacao, maize, tobacco and citrus. The incremental
value for soybeans alone was a significant 81%. Brazilian agriculture is
particularly sensitive to price incentives for annual crops, such as cotton,
soybeans, tobacco and wheat, and annual changes in the area under cultivation
reflect this price sensitivity at the farm level (Annex 3, Table 4).
Agricultural Exports and Imports
1.04      Ten crops provide the bulk of agricultural exports: namely, coffee,
sugar, soybeans, cacao, maize, castor bean (oil), tobacco, cotton, oranges
and sisal. All are sensitive to world price fluctuations, particularly the
annual crops (Annex 3, Table 5).
1.05      Agricultural imports are not significant except for wheat and dried
beans. Wheat imports fluctuated significantly, for 1976 over 1975, by an
increase of 57%, based on dollar value. Brazil currently fluctuates between
being a net exporter or net importer of both rice and edible beans. Two other
products which currently have a significant role in the Government's economic
strategy, to reduce costly imports, are natural rubber and petroleum products.
It is hoped to stimulate domestic production of the former, while a program
to substitute with alcohol, up to 10% of the gasoline used in automobiles, is
now seriously being considered under a plan to produce methanol from sugarcane,
cassava and sweet sorghum.
Importance of agriculture in the Labor Force
1.06      Despite its gradually decreasing importance relative to GNP, there
were still 12.8 million people engaged in agriculture during 1976. This
represented 39.5% of the total active labor force and may be compared with
19.8% for industry, and 40.7% for services.



- 3 -
B. Land Distribution and Use
Farm Size and Ownership Pattern
1.07      Figures for the 1970 cadastral survey show a total of 4,923,790
holdings in Brazil covering 294,144 thousand ha, or 34.8% of the total land
area. The distribution by size of holdings was shown to be as follows:
Number of                      Number of       Area in
Farm Size                Holdings       Total Area      Holdings       Each Group
(ha)                    (Units)       (ha .000)          (%             (%)
0 to 10                  2,519,630           9,083          51.40          3.06
10 to 100                1,934,392         60,069           39.42         20.41
100 to 1,000               414,746        108,743            8.44         37.07
1,000 to 10,000             35,425          80,059           0.71         27.21
>10,000                       1,597         36,190           0.03         12.25
Unclassified                 18,000              -              - 
Totals              4,923,790        294,144          100.00        100.00
From the table above it will be seen that, using composite figures, 91% of
all holdings are in the 1-100 ha range but control only 23.5% of the land
area, while holdings of 100 ha and over represent only 9% of the total number
of units but occupy 76.5% of the land area.
1.08      Of additional interest is the distribution of small land holdings
by regions. In the 1-10 ha range the majority, 39.48%, are in the South,
closely followed by 34.99% in the Northeast. The same pattern (41.87% and
26.98% respectively) is true for the 10 - 100 ha range. In the 10 - 100 ha
range, the percentage of holdings within the area of project emphasis,
regions north, northeast and central-west is 36% (Annex 3, Table 6, Section I).
There is also wide variation in the relative percentages, based on property
size within regions, as follows: in the 0 to 100 ha range; north 63%, north-
east 80% and central-west 49%. Only in the north and central-west is there
a significant number of very large holdings, i.e. in excess of 10,000 ha
(see also Annex 3, Table 6, Section II for detail).
1.09      Under owner/occupier classification farm units are divided as
follows:  direct ownership 64% and renter/sharecropper 36%.  These statistics
are of considerable importance when considering government policy for providing
a meaningful stimulus to agricultural development through availability and/or
direct provision of necessary inputs such as credit, fertilizer and support
services such as research and extension. The successful transfer of technology,
at the farm level by extension methods, is particularly influenced by the size
and relative efficiency of the production units being serviced.



-4-
Land Use
1.10      The total area in crops is currently thought to be 37.1 million ha,
or 4.4% of - -al land area.  Of this area, 9.4 million (25%) is in perennial
or permanen :-e crops, 27.3 million (74%) in annual field crops, and 361,000
(1%) in horLicuitural crops. The area used for livestock production (155.5
millioti h; uo 1{8.4% of land area) is divided between 111.1 million ha (72%) in
permanent pasture and 44.3 million ha (28%) in temporary pasture. In addition,
some 27.2 million ha of forest are utilized for extractive activities, i.e.
gathering of natural r^- 3ber, nuts and essential vegetable oils (see also
Annex 3, Table 7).
C. Agricultural Development Policy
1.11      In the 1970's there have been two National Development Plans (PNDs),
the first, PND I, from 1972-74 and PND II from 1975-79. Under both plans agri-
cultural strategies have been very similar and an annual (GNP) growth of 7%
was predicted for the sector. This rate of growth was achieved in 1974 (para.
1.02) but for the remainder of the period growth rates have been between 3.4
and 5.3%. Preliminary estimates for 1977, however, would indicate a dramatic
improvement to 9.8% due largely to increased values for coffee, cacao and
soybean exports. In both development plans there has been a notable policy
emphasis towards increasing the area under production as well as stimulating
increases per unit area by a series of fiscal incentives to encourage the
production of key domestic food and export crops. The major features and
goals of such development policies affecting agriculture are as follows:
(a) Land Settlement and Rural Development Programs:
Examples are the defining of regional development "poles," chiefly in
the North and Central-West and development plans for these areas
(POLOAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO). In the Northeast, special rural
development schemes have come under the POLONORDESTE plan, linked
to such programs as the Program for National Integration (PIN)
and the Program for Land Settlement and Stimulus to Agro-Industry
in the North and Northeast (PROTERRA);
(b) Specific Crop and Livestock Production Programs:
These have been based on specific objectives such as the formation
of "export corridors," with the crops chosen being key elements in
the drive for increased exports of agricultural products. Examples
are programs for pasture and herd development (PROPEC and PRONAP) and,
for crops, minimum pricing policies for selected crops under the
Production Financing Commission (CFP).
(c) Production Credit, Food Distribution, Storage and Nutrition Programs:
Many of these, particularly credit and nutrition programs, are designed
to assist the low-income farmer. The regula--ization of production
incentives comes under the National Food Supply Council (CONAB) food
storage is controlled by the Brazilian Storage Company (CIBRAZEM) and
food distribution is the responsibility of the National Food Supply
Superintendency (SUNAB).



- 5-
(d)  Institutional Strengthening.
In order to provide the necessary new technology, and ensure that new
productior. ,echniques thus developed also reach the farmer, the Govern-
ment has recognized the need for integration and administrative strengthen-
ing of the agricultural research and extension services at all levels.
As a result, steps are being taken to improve these key agricultural
support services as described in paras 1.13 and 1.14.
D. Agricultural Support Services
Introduction
1.12      Considering the size of the country, the importance of agriculture
to the national economy and the enormous potential that remains for further
development, agricultural support services are not particularly well developed
apart from the banking system. Big increases in production have been achieved
in recent years but these have been due largely to opening up new land, and
the stimulus of rising commodity prices rather than through the impact of
conventional support services such as extension and research. Government is,
however, increasingly aware of the need to improve such services in order to
achieve increased yields per unit area thus improving levels of efficiency
in the agricultural sector.
Agricultural Research
1.13      The Brazilian Corporation for Agricultural Research (EMIBRAPA) is the
institution now responsible for the coordination and promotion of research
throughout Brazil. It was founded in 1972, through the amalgamation of a
number of different research organizations at both federal and state levels.
Through fiscal control at the federal level it can either act directly to
execute research at its own research centers, or act indirectly through
numerous state level research institutions. It also acts as the planning,
coordinating, executing and evaluating agency for federally integrated devel-
opment programs where agricultural research has a significant role to play.
EMBRAPA's long range plans, initiated in 1973, now call for expenditure of
over US$100.0 million per year for the 1977-80 period. The new production
technology being developed must, however, be successfully applied at the
farm level before significant returns on this investment can accrue. It is
here that the role of the extension service can have a significant impact
in the Government's development plans for agriculture in the years ahead. 1/
The present proposal for an Agricultural Extension I Project, to cover the
operational period 1978-81 is designed to ensure that the results of agricul-
tural research are made available, through transfer of technology, to all
producers but with particular emphasis on the small farmer where the need is
greatest.
1/   See also Appraisal of the Agricultural Research I Project, Report No.
1031a-BR, April 15, 1976.



-6-
Agricultural Extension
1.14      The Brazilian Corporation for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension (EMBRATER) is the agency currently responsible for coordinating
agricultural extension work in Brazil. Like EMBRAPA it is a semi-autonomous
agency under the Ministry of Agriculture. However, it was formed three years
after EMBRAPA and is still only in the initial stages of taking full control
over its mandate at the federal level. EMBRATER's primary function is to
formulate, coordinate, monitor and evaluate the implementation of extension
policies but, unlike EMBRAPA it does not itself directly execute extension
programs. This is done by the state extension services (EMATERs) which are
affiliated to EMBRATER. Since the establishment of EMBRATER there have been
significant innovations in the entire national extension system (known as
SIBRATER), particularly the introduction of plans to increase federal funding
for specific programs, and to improve the support services being provided to
low-income farmers. Further data on EMBRATER and the present range of the
extension services are provided in subsequent sections of this report.
Agricultural Credit
1.15      Agricultural credit services in Brazil were first formally organized
under the Agricultural and Industrial Credit Department (CREAI) of the Bank of
Brazil (BB) in 1937. Despite the generally unfavorable economic conditions of
the period, the growth of agricultural credit was rapid and has continued to
grow steadily since that time. The major defect of the system in the early
years was that BB did not have branches in all rural municipalities and did
not always possess adequate resources to meet the demand. However, by 1964
BB was servicing almost half a million (461,633) crop loans and 152,652 live-
stock loans. To provide even broader credit service to farmers the Federal
Government, in 1965, created the National Rural Credit System (SNCR) which
allowed for the participation of the entire national banking system, and
provided the Government with greater rural development and production policy
controls through the channeling of credit resources. The main functions of
the SNCR are to: (a) establish operational norms; (b) create new credit bills
to respond to policy initiatives; and (c) to rationalize and facilitate
the financing of rural credit at all levels by defining those who are entitled
to credit facilities. Repayment terms are also supervised but may not,
in any case, exceed limits set by the National Monetary Council (CMN).
Interest rates, of 7-21%, are also highly negative in an economy which has
registered annual inflation rates of as high as 40-45% during recent years.
Despite the above, however, it cannot be said that credit is equally, and
easily, available to all producers. The small farmer, with no land collateral
and limited education, is often excluded from participating fully in institu-
tionalized credit programs. As noted (para. 1.11) the Government has, more
recently taken several important policy decisions, within the rural develop-
ment framework, to address this problem directly.
1.16      In order to make more credit available the SNCR introduced a resolu-
tion (No. 69) which established that private banks should apply 10% of their
deposits to rural credit programs. SNCR also created a special fund (FNRR)
attached to the Central Bank which would channel these funds from the private



7-               - 7
banks and other sources (including foreign loans) thus providing discounting
facilities on agricultural loans made by the private banks, and increasing
substantially the amount of rural credit available. Under these and other
direct Government policy incentives such as credit lines within regional and
crop specific development programs (PROTERRA, PRODOESTE, and FUNAGRI) the
total number of credit contracts grew from 1,145,209 in 1969 to 1,252,841 in
1971 with corresponding increases of total loan values from Cr$9.3 billion to
Cr$12.9 billion respectively. The amount of agricultural credit issued in
1976 was estimated to be Cr$79.0 billion (current Cr$) or 52% of the total
agricultural product for that year. Ministry of Agriculture forecasts indicate
that a substantially increased amount would be available for credit operations
in 1977. Since many of the official (federal and state) and private banks
have either very limited or non-existent technical units, with staff agro-
nomists for credit supervision in the field, the task of credit supervision,
at the farm implementation level has increasingly become the responsibility of
local and regional extension services in recent years (see also para 1.15).
Agricultural Education
1.17      In 1976 there were 40 institutions of higher learning offering 57
programs in the agricultural sciences. Most of the schools have been started
during the past 10 to 15 years; few are older than 25 years. Most of the
animal sciences, forestry and fisheries study programs are of recent origin,
since, traditionally, only agronomy and veterinary sciences were taught at
the older, well established institutions. Total enrollment in the agricultural
sciences in 1973 was 15,090 students, or only 16 per 100,000 inhabitants and
an average of 3.06 students per 1,000 farm enterprises. The majority of the
courses are offered at the undergraduate level and currently there are only
500 places per year for graduate level studies in 29 programs. Opportunities
for graduate education are also still concentrated in the South and Southeast
regions. Almost 80% of all graduates are employed by federal and state
agencies. The number of agronomists, at the undergraduate level, is believed
to be fully adequate to meet present demands but candidates with advanced
degrees are still deficient in numbers to meet current demand and the number
of post-graduate level courses offered is extremely limited.
1.18      The supply and demand position for skilled and mid-level (high
school graduate) technicians is one which affects recruitment at all the
major federal and state agencies dealing with agricultural development; but
particularly so for the rural extension system which relies heavily on this
level of personnel for the "in field" operations at which the most frequent
extension agent/farmer contacts are made. Current assumptions 1/ are that
total demand at this level will be 230,000 for the 1977-85 period, 185,000 (or
80% of this demand) would be for development projects in the North, Northeast
and Central-West regions. However, estimated demand for both state and federal
extension agents for the next four years (1978-81) period is not expected to
exceed 4,000 or 2% of the projected total demand.
1/   Source:  Appraisal of a Vocational Training Project in Brazil, Report No.
1549a-BR, May 1977, Annex 3.



- 8 -
E. Bank's Participation in the Sector
Lending Strategy
1.19      In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important rural development objectives, which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One of these objectives is to support institu-
tional development and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maximize
public savings and ensure that they are used economically. This is also an
objective of the proposed agricultural extension project, which would assist
EMBRATER to improve the coordination and emphasize the production orientation
of Brazil's agricultural research efforts in the Northeast, North and Central-
West of the country. The proposed project would include extensive training
and technical assistance components to strengthen EMBRATER. The institution-
building objective has also been particularly important in previous Bank
assistance to the Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA) under a loan
(1249-BR) signed in June last year. EMBRAPA is now developing specific
research programs, in the macro-regions mentioned, which are designed to
provide the necessary agro-technology for expanded agricultural production
and development of the rural sector.
1.20      A key element in the execution of these programs is the development
of new technology through the expanded and strengthened national research
programs under EM4BRAPA, followed now by a similar policy of strengthening the
technical assistance and rural extension system (SIBRATER) under EMBRATER, the
recently formed coordinating agency designated to finance and coordinate
extension services on a national scale. The Agricultural Extension I Project,
as proposed by EMBRATER to the Bank for partial financing, would appear to be
well designed for the future execution of EMBRATER's mandate. The project
goals are also compatible with the Bank's role in lending to the agricultural
and rural development sector and the proposed loan would be a logical comple-
ment to the Agricultural Research I Project, thus ensuring that new technology
developed under that program would reach producers and become effective both
in generating increases in agricultural production and in raising the living
standards of the rural poor.
1.21      Another important lending objective for the Bank has been to help
Brazil ease the foreign exchange constraint on its development by supporting
projects designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical,
to substitute domestic production for imports. The proposed extension project
supplements previous projects to help Brazil reduce its dependence on imports
of some key agricultural commodities (e.g., wheat, dry beans and natural
rubber); maintain or develop self-sufficiency in the production of several
basic food crops (e.g., beans, cassava and rice); and to gradually increase
exports of others (e.g., beef, maize and cacao).



- 9 -
Proposed Loan for Agricultural Extension
1.22      The proposed loan for an agricultural extension project would be
the thirteenth for the development of Brazil's agricultural sector. The Bank
has made two loans, totalling US$66 million, for livestock development;
three amounting to US$155.2 million to support agro-industry and grain storage
credit programs; one for US$6.7 million for the Alto Turi Land Settlement
Project in the state of Maranhao; one for US$23 million for the Lower Sao
Francisco Polders Project, one for US$40 million for Agricultural Research;
one for US$12 million for the Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project;
a loan for the Minas Gerais Rural Development Project of US$42.0 million; one
for Rural Development in Ceara of US$17 million and a similar Rural Development
loan of US$24 million, in the state of Paraiba has recently been negotiated.
In addition, there have been three loans, totalling US$196.0 million for
fertilizer production and a recent Bank loan (1302-BR) of US$19.0 million to
strengthen the National Nutrition Institute (INAN). These last four loans
have also a direct impact on agricultural production and development of the
rural sector.
1.23      The proposal to assist Government in strengthening the national
agricultural extension service, through EMBRATER, is entirely consistent and
compatible with Bank lending strategy for the sector. The aims of the project
would further strengthen government initiatives to obtain increased agricultural
production, and, at the same time, it would have significant impact on rural
development in general, but with a major emphasis upon programs of assistance
to the rural poor, in those regions which have been designated as having
priority in the Government's plans for agricultural development as a whole.



- 10 -
II. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
A. Historical Perspective
2.01      Several commodity organizations have provided limited advisory
s-v4ces to their members since the early 1940s, examples being the Cocoa
i<_.opment Institute (CEPLAC), the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC)9 the
Council for the Development of Livestock (CONDEPE); and the National Plan for
the Improvement of Dairy Livestock. Various agro-industrial firms have also
provided such services. The Ministry of Agriculture, too, has provided limited
assistance through what were referred to as "rural missions." The first state-
wide service to be established was the Office of Coordination of Integral
Technical Assistance (CATI) in the state of Sao Paulo. This was followed in
1949 by the formation of a Credit and Rural Assistance Association (ACAR) in
the state of Minas Gerais. The latter was based on extension methodology that
had been successful in the USA, and was in effect the forerunner of the exten-
sion services now found in all the states in Brazil. Various international
organizations and bilateral agencies supported those first extension efforts,
under which the original US methodology was modified to fit the Brazilian
situation. The pilot program in Minas Gerais was successful and the system
spread throughout the other states.
2.02      In 1956, the Brazilian Rural Credit and Assistance Association
(ABCAR) was established to integrate all existing state services into one
national system. It was a non-profit civil corporation with semi-autonomous
affiliates (ACARs) in 20 states 1/ and two territories, and was guided by a
National Board of Directors (Conselho Deliberativo) which approved all plans
and budgets. The ABCAR system ostensibly provided general extension services,
but in practice concentrated largely on advising farmers on the use of credit
and the preparation of credit applications. In many states, in collaboration
with other agencies, the ACARs also initiated programs to improve local health
and nutrition standards. There was great demand for such programs and since
the state extension services were for the most part the only agencies with a
network of local offices, they were by default and necessity involved in
many functions that were not strictly speaking agricultural extension.
2.03      Between 1956 and 1965, the ABCAR system had established 254 local
offices with 652 technicians. By 1970, it had 1,053 local offices and 2,556
technicians, and by 1974 it had grown to 1,440 local offices and 4,400 tech-
nicians, assisting about 344,000 farmers. Each extension agent serviced about
40 farm credit applicants, while social assistance personnel reached about
12U families per year. Sixty percent of the ABCAR budget came from the
Miaistry of Agriculture while the remainder came from State and Municipal
Governments, and other development agencies, associations, and private enter-
prises. In many states, individual ACARs entered into agreements with banks
providing rural credit, further augmenting their income. For example, under
1/   The state of Sao Paulo has continued to operate its own independent
agricultural extension organization (CATI).



- 11 -
a contract with the Banco do Brasil (BB) the ACARs received 2% per annum of
the outstanding balance of each loan serviced. Many such arrangements still
exist.
2.04      The ABCAR system was quite successful in its broad approach to agri-
cultural extension, but it suffered, perhaps inevitably, from a series of
constraints, particularly a chronic shortage of funds, lack of continuity in
funding, and a lack of continuity of policy and personnel. As the system
developed, a heavy financial burden was placed on the Ministry of Agriculture
because many of the programs ABCAR sponsored were, in reality, outside the
field of agricultural production and productivity. Furthermore, attempts by
the Ministry of Agriculture to modify programs met with resistance from the
rural population, who felt that if the ACARs did not continue to provide
social services, no one else would. Another major problem was that, due to
the lack of effective research programs, extension agents had little new
technology to pass on to farmers. Instead, they devoted most of their time
to supervising credit, and the various other programs carried out on health,
nutrition, child care, handicrafts, and general home economics. As a conse-
quence true extension work suffered. Some ACARs, however, did develop their
own field trials to test cropping practices, and were able to recommend
improved agronomic practices to farmers. Lastly, there was considerable
variation between states in the quality and coverage of the extension
services provided, due largely to political circumstances and the fact that
some states were much more developed than others.
B. Present Status of Agricultural Extension
The Brazilian Enterprise for Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension (EMBRATER)
2.05      In the early 1970s, based on policies enunciated in the National
Development Plan (PND I), the Government began strengthening agricultural
services, assigning full responsibility to the Ministry of Agriculture. In
1972 the agricultural research services were reorganized and a new institution,
EMBRAPA, was established. The new institution in effect took over a range of
research programs that were previously administered by a series of separate
organizations. The Bank has played a role in this development, and is currently
financing a number of EMBRAPA's activities (Brazil Agricultural Research
Project--Loan 1249-BR). Two years after the formation of EMBRAPA, in February
1974 the Brazilian Enterprise for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension
(EMBRATER) was established 1/ to replace ABCAR, and the old state ACARs were
renamed EMATERs. The purpose of this reorganization was to try and improve
the quality and effectiveness of both research and extension services and to
ensure that the activities of both were more closely coordinated. To formalize
such coordination a National Commission for Agricultural Research and Technical
Assistance (COMPATER) was also set up, on which are represented both EMBRAPA
and EMBRATER (para 2.12).
1/ Law No. 6.126 of 6/11/74 and Decree No. 75.373 of 14/2/75.



- 12 -
2.06       The formation of EMBRAPA has led to a much more centralized admin-
istrative structure for research than existed previously, but this is not the
case with ex- nsion, and the new EMATERs, being affiliates of EMBRATER, have
retained a 1,-rge measure of the independence of their predecessors, the old
state ACARs. irie new institutions do, however, have closer links with each
other, and. 1r emiphasize that such links exist between the federal agencies,
the entire structure is referred to as the National Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension System (SIBRATER). Thus, the latter in effect encompasses
both EMBRATER, the central coordinating body at federal level, and 23 EMATERs
at state or territorial level.
2.07      The new SIBRATER system is still in the process of becoming estab-
lished, but it is envisaged that, although the individual EMATERs will imple-
ment extension programs according to local circumstances, EM4BRATER will be
influential in three respects:
(a) Administration. EMBRATER holds a capital share in each EMATER
and participates in the selection and nomination of the management.
Legal norms in the different state extension agencies are equally
applied, and financing is on the basis of signed contracts between
EMBRATER and the EMATERs.
(b) Planning. Legal instruments allow EMBRATER to play a role in
planning projects. General policies and goals are outlined at the
federal level to serve as a framework for these plans.
(c) Operations. EMBRATER headquarters staff are assigned to the state
affiliates for purposes of consultation, orientation, and training.
2.08      Being a new organization with new staff, EMBRATER has yet to become
fully established, and like many new organizations, has experienced teething
problems. There have been delays in the provision of funds and the organiza-
tion has been reluctant on occasion to assume the role of leader and catalyst
as aggressively as some would wish. On the other hand, since the individual
state EMATERs have had a long tradition of independence, this is understand-
able and EMBRATER is probably wise to tread with care in the early years.
Fortunately, there is general agreement in Brazilian extension circles on the
need for a central coordinating agency such as EMBRATER, and the institution
has for the most part substantial support from the state EMATERs. State
expectations are in fact high and EMBRATER has a major task ahead of it to
satisfy such expectations. In order to achieve the desired goals in the area
of planning, coordination and execution at both federal and state levels, a
much stronger organizational structure will have to be built which can be
more responsive to the special needs of both state and federal programs.
Indications are that, assisted by the proposed project, this can be achieved.
State Extension Services
2.09       Extension Coverage.  According to the 1970 agricultural census
there were approximately 4.9 million farm properties in Brazil, and in 1977
there were 9,140 agricultural technicians working in the SIBRATER system.



- 13 -
Of these 7,077 can be classified as working at the field level, in which case
there is at present an extension agent/family ratio of 1:700. A great many
farm families are not, however, being reached by the SIBRATER system. Exact
data are difficult to obtain, but it is thought that about 565,000 farm
families are being contacted through group meetings and individual visits.
The figure does not include those being reached through the mass media. It is
believed, therefore, that each technician on average contacts about 80 farmers,
but there are wide differences between and within individual states and geo-
graphic regions, namely: North 70:1, Northeast 55:1, Central-West 101:1,
South 183:1, Southeast 112:1. It should be borne in mind that a great many
of these contacts, probably the majority of them, are still primarily to
supervise credit on behalf of the banking system, and that in most states few
of the contacts involve small farmers. It is evident therefore that there
is a substantial need to increase the number of extension agents, improve
their effectiveness, and increase the number of contacts per agent (see also
Annex 3, Tables 8 and 9).
2.10      Administration.  Circumstances differ widely from state to state,
particularly the degree of extension coverage, but with most EMATERs a state
is divided for administrative purposes into regions. Within each region
there are a number of field offices, each of which service farmers in a
number of municipalities. Details of the actual number of staff in each
state (1977) are provided in Annex 3, Table 10.
2.11      In all states actual extension work is very much program oriented,
and consists of four main categories. These are (a) crop programs, with
38 crops involved; (b) producer specific programs, i.e., low-income farmers
and "artisanal" fishermen; (c) production support programs, based on coopera-
tives, use of agricultural inputs (such as improved seed, fertilizer, credit)
and training for rural workers, and (d) social welfare programs. Many of the
programs are closely interwoven, particularly the social welfare programs
for low-income farmers who may well be the beneficiaries under a variety of
programs. At the state (EMATER) level each program has a manager who is
responsible for the operation of the specified program in the state.- He
supervises the programs at the local (municipal) level. The total number
of municipalities receiving extension services in each state or territory
varies enormously, from two in Rondonia to 686 in Minas Gerais. However,
program work in any one state usually reaches an average of 50-60% of the
municipalities for any one program. In the case of specific crop programs the
state managers can, to a limited extent, call on subject matter specialists
through EMBRATER headquarters, or the local research service (EMBRAPA) as may
be necessary. Each project manager is responsible for the supervision of
about 6 regional supervisors (senior level technicians) and each of these
supervisors has 10 or 12 field staff (middle level technicians) under his
supervision for a total of 60-72 field personnel per managerial unit. Given
the great diversity in the degree of agricultural production and rural
development in each state these averages can, however, vary enormously.
Administrative linkages between the EMATERs and EMBRATER are shown at Annex 3,
Charts I and 2.



- 14 -
2.12      Extension Methodology.  Thorough extension methods vary between
states, for the most part the classical personal contact system is most
widely practiced, i.e. with the extension worker meeting the farmer on a
person to person basis. Group methods have not been widely practiced,
partly because the necessary technical facilities are lacking and partly
because of the emphasis on credit supervision which cannot be other than
on a personal basis. In the two years since assuming control of the exten-
sion system network (SIBRATER) at the national level, EMBRATER has not
imposed a uniform methodology on delivery (information dissemination process)
at the field level. Nor should it attempt to do so until many of the
problems unique to the rapidly evolving agricultural industry, strongly
influenced by government policy and economic incentives on a macroregional
basis, can be adequately studied to provide the most effective methods to be
applied in each case. EMBRATER is, however, increasingly conscious of the
need to find ways and means of reaching more farmers, and recognizes that
where small farmers are concerned there should perhaps be more emphasis on
group methods and the greater use of well designed audio visual aids.
Officials believe there is urgent need for studies and experimentation
(methodology studies) to arrive at more effective methods. There is also
recognition that a variety of approaches are probably necessary depending
on such factors as farm size, population density, cropping patterns etc.,
all of which vary greatly between and within states.
2.13      Current Financing Arrangements.  Based on budget estimates for
1977, allocation for the National Agricultural Technical assistance and
Rural Extension System was US$147.2 million. Of this, US$134.7 million
was allocated to the 23 state and territorial associate companies (EMATERs
and ASTERs) and the remainder (US$12.5 million) was allocated to EMBRATER
headquarters. Allocation of the state/territory funding by region was
as follows: North 12%, Northeast 32%; Central-West 15%; South 19% and
Southeast 22%. The source of funds varies considerably in the case of
the EMATERs and ASTERs. However, approximately 60% of EMATER funding is
derived from federal sources and is channeled through EMBRATER, Brasilia.
In the case of the territorial ASTERs funding may be 90% federal and also
be controlled through EMBRATER. Much of the federal funding, particularly
in the territories where land settlement is occurring, is tied to special
development programs such as POLAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO.  In the case of
the northeast there are special programs for rural development, under
POLONORDESTE, and programs specifically designed to assist the low-income
farmer.
2.14      Field Offices.  Due to the diversity of the country, there are
many variations in local extension units and none can be considered as
being typical of the whole system. At one extreme there are two-man units,
staffed by either a veterinarian or an agriculturalist and a clerk, while
in some areas they may be as many as 15 or 16 on the staff, e.g., five
higher-level technicians, five middle-level technicians or field assistants,
two social assistants (home economists), and four lower-level field workers.
Usually these local extension units are housed in offices supplied by the
municipality -- usually a rented house or office in the municipal building,



- 15 
and some are combined with regional extension units. In some areas however,
the location of the municipal offices may bear no relation to the agricultural
production areas, and, therefore, the local offices are not readily accessible
to farmers. Most of the local offices have a vehicle for every two technicians
plus a few items of demonstration equipment and, occasionally, a slide projector.
Frequently, however, office buildings and equipment are very deficient. Staff
training facilities are also for the most part inadequate, particularly for
pre- and in-service training, and in very many cases there are few back-up or
subject matter specialists on which field staff can rely for specialist advice
and assistance.
2.15      Extension Constraints.  The contraints experienced by the old ABCAR
system have already been noted (para 2.04), particularly lack of continuity
of financing and policy making, a chronic shortage of funds, wide variations
in quality and coverage between states, and dilution of effort caused by the
need to both supervise credit and service a variety of social programs. Many
of these constraints still exist, in fact by their very nature it is apparent
that they cannot be rectified in the short term. Perhaps the most basic
difficulty relates to lack of continuity of funding, because, in the absence
of a secure source of funds over the long term, it is hardly surprising that
staff and facilities are often inadequate and that individual EMATERs feel
compelled to undertake such functions as supervising credit (for which they
receive a fee from the banks) and servicing social programs (for which funds
are obtained from many sources). Government has become increasingly aware of
the nature of these difficulties, and believes that the creation of EMBRATER
is one of the first steps that needed to be taken in order to address basic
funding and policy issues. It also feels that, as in the case of research,
the Bank can play a useful role by helping to provide continuity of funding
and the wherewithall to both expand services and improve their quality.
Officials realize, however, that due to the size and variability of the
country and the complexity of many of the problems involved, a number of the
constraints mentioned may well take years to remedy.
C. Interactions with Other Agricultural Services
National Role of EMBRATER
2.16      A primary function of EMBRATER is to collaborate with other govern-
ment agencies involved in stimulating agricultural production and carrying out
rural development policies, and to promote, encourage, and coordinate tech-
nical assistance initiatives. With this in mind, in April 1975, EMBRATER
published "Guidelines for the Operational Structure of EMBRATER," prepared by
15 working groups consisting of interdisciplinary teams of 155 technicians,
representing 45 public and private institutions, plus 15 officials of EKBRATRER.
The purpose of the guidelines was to establish the mechanisms required to
coordinate the work of EMBRATER with the other national agencies handling
agricultural research, rural credit, marketing, rural cooperatives, and rural
development programs involving education, nutrition, health and vocational
training. These mechanisms are still being worked on in detail.



- 16 -
Relationship to EMBRAPA
2.17      A National Commission of Agricultural Research and Technical
Assistance (COMPATER) has been set up as the coordinating link between EMBRATER
and EMBRAPA, and is responsible at the federal level for synchronizing, review-
ing, and coordinating the programs of both agencies. The primary role of
COMPATER is to ensure that both the research and extension agencies are
responsive to national development priorities and goals. Members of COMPATER
are: one representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, as Chairman; the
presidents of EMBRAPA and EMBRATER; one representative each from the Central
Bank, the National Farmers Confederation and the National Agricultural Workers
Confederation; and two representatives from agro-industrial interests in the
private sector. COMPATER is jointly financed by EMBRAPA and EMBRATER.
EMBRAPA's Department of Diffusion of Technology (DDT) and EMBRATER's Department
of Technical Support (DTS) act as liaison units between the two. At the state
level, the representative departments responsible for diffusion of technology
in the two institutions work together in planning, executing, and evaluating
research projects and in training staff. Extension bulletins (Pacotes
Technologicos) are now being prepared as a result of discussions between
researchers, extensionists, and producers, and research staff from EMBRAPA
are helping with the training of extension personnel. Similarly, extension
staff assist in planning field days on EMBRAPA experimental farms.
Relationship with Rural Credit Institutions
2.18      EMBRATER wishes increasingly to free extension staff from adminis-
trative functions relating to credit so that staff can concentrate on exten-
sion activities and the dissemination of new agronomic technology. Discussions
are routinely held at the highest levels with the National Commission for
Rural Credit (COMCRED), the Guarantee Program for Agricultural Production
(PROAGRO) and the Banco do Nordeste (BNB), and Banco do Amazonas (BA). It
has been decided that EMBRATER will continue to assist the recipients of rural
credit but will increasingly emphasize loans to small and medium landholders
through cooperatives or farmers' associations. This is a desirable shift in
policy, but it is appreciated that it is not a policy that can be implemented
overnight since the supervision of credit to larger farmers has been a tradi-
tional function of the state extension services since their inception.
Collaboration with Marketing Organizations
2.19      EMBRATER believes that much can be done to improve agricultural
marketing facilities and is currently emphasizing assistance to cooperatives
and informal farmer associations. In this respect, EMBRATER marketing special-
ists are establishing coordinating mechanisms at both national and state
levels with the Brazilian Food Company (COBAL), the Commission for Financing
Production (CFP), the Brazilian Storage Company (CIBRAZEM), the National
Department of Marketing Services (DNSC), the National Superintendency of
Supplies (SUNAB), and the Department of Inspection of Products from Animal
Origin (DIPOA). Preference is being given to producers who are organized
in groups or cooperatives, and in 1976, 226 cooperatives, comprising 212,773
members, were given technical assistance. Training and support were provided
on planning, management, maintenance of equipment, storage processing and
marketing.



- 17 -
2.20      EMBRATER is also collaborating with private industries that produce
agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, insecticides, fungicides and
veterinary products to provide technical assistance programs. Joint training
programs, demonstration plots, campaigns and production of informative materials
are resulting in more uniform recommendations to the farmers. EMBRATER has
established an accreditation system for private firms which want to undertake
technical assistance work under contract with the Banco do Brasil and other
financial institutions. Such accreditation includes guidelines on procedures
and sanctions for possible irregularities.
Collaboration with Social Institutions
2.21      Special agreements are being signed with the Ministry of Health
(MINISAUDE), the National Nutrition Institute (INAN), the Ministry of Education
and Culture (MEC), and the Ministry of Labor (M4TSS) to introduce programs that
indirectly support agricultural production in the fields of health, nutrition,
literacy, formal rural education and manpower training. These agreements at
the national level will include coordination of such programs at the state and
regional levels. Some of the major agencies in this area are: the National
Employment System (SINE); the Program of Assistance to Rural Labor (PRORURAL);
the National Foundation for Occupational Safety, Hygiene and Medicine
(FUNDACENTRO); the Rural Health Program (PIASS); the Center for Education and
Feeding of Preschool Children (CEAPES); the National School Food Campaign
(CNAE); the National Food and Nutrition Institute (INAN); the Intitute of Food
Technology (ITAI); the National Food and Nutrition Program (PRONAN); the
Public Health Services Foundation (SES); and the National Service for Rural
Training (SENAR) generated by the Ministry of Labor. The interaction of the
activities of these various agencies is extremely complex. Insofar as EMBRATER
is concerned, it believes that it has an important catalytic role to play to
encourage other agencies to improve social and support services to the rural
population, and to support and service such agencies if their programs require
an input from trained extension staff. Traditionally the state extension
services have been heavily involved, within the limits of their available
resources, in providing many such services directly. This has largely been
because the state extension services, being relatively decentralized and with
a network of local offices, have been most closely in touch with rural people.
There is increasing recognition that the provision of social services is not
the real function of an extension service, but as with credit supervision, the
state services feel they cannot withdraw until the other agencies, whose job
it is to provide social services, are better developed.
2.22      A broad overview of the interlocking agency responsibilities under
the various policy-making councils, and EMBRATER's role in many of the rural
development programs can best be visualized from the table provided at Annex 3
(Chart 3).



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.Oi      As already noted Brazil's economy has traditionally maintained a
strong agricultural base and the country has great potential for further
agricultural development (paras 1.01 and 1.02). Government believes that
in order to realise this potential agricultural support services require
substantial expansion and improvement, particularly research and extension
services. It is also increasingly accepted that such services need to cater
to a much greater extent than in the past to the needs of smaller farmers,
of whom there are very many (para 1.07). Steps have already been taken to
strengthen and improve the country's research services (para 1D13) and plans
are now in hand to similarly strengthen and improve the extension services
(para 2.05). Both activities are complementary one to the other, and since
the Bank is already heavily involved in the former, it is a logical sequence
of events for it also to be involved in the latter.
3.02      In a letter received from Brazil's Minister of Agriculture, dated
January 21, 1976, the Government requested Bank assistance to strengthen
Brazil's National Technical Assistance and Rural Extension System (SIBRATER).
A Bank identification mission in June 1976 was followed by a preparation
mission during November of the same year. Subsequently, a pre-appraisal
mission assisted the proposed executing agent for the project, the Brazilian
Enterprise for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (EMBRATER) to prepare
the project proposal document which was received by the Bank on May 20, 1977.
3.03      The Bank appraisal mission, under terms of reference dated June 7,
was in the field during the period of June 16, to July 20, 1977. Subsequent
changes to the original project document, necessary to comply with Government's
current development plans, were made by EMBRATER's project preparation team.
These changes were reviewed by a post-appraisal Bank mission during late
November 1977.
B.  Objectives, Description and Scope
3.04      The main focus of the proposed project is essentially institution
building and, as an overall objective, the project would aim to strengthen
EMBRATER's capability to provide national leadership and overall coordination
in order to provide more efficient and effective extension services on a
national scale. More specifically the project would aim to:
(a) improve the continuity of funding to both EMBRATER and its
affiliate EMATERs and ASTERs, thus providing them with the
financial strength and security necessary to improve, modify
and expand extension services to farmers;



- 19 -
(b) make extension services increasingly available to about 1.3
million farmers, an increase of about 130% over current levels;
(c) improve the quality of the services already being provided and
expand their coverage, thus enabling farmers to have better
access to up-to-date data on cultural practices, market
prospects, credit arrangements and production incentive programs;
(d) improve the methods of communication now under use to include
group methods by introduction of audio-visual aids, stimulation
of cooperative efforts and greater availability of simple
educational bulletins and pamphlets covering all aspects of
agricultural production;
(e) generally raise the income levels of farmers, particularly
an increasing number of small farmers;
(f) strengthen the technical planning, monitoring, evaluation and
administrative capabilities of both EMBRATER and EMATER
staffs.
3.05      In order to achieve these objectives the proposed project would
comprise:
(a) Programs to improve and strengthen existing state agricultural
extension service facilities by: providing for additional staff,
library documentation and current data services, audio-visual
aids, training centers, state offices and facilities for crop
production and small scale (artisanal) fisheries cooperatives;
(b) Further development of technical and administrative staff
capability by: providing pre-service and in-service training,
specialized short courses and graduate training for selected
senior staff;
(c) Provision of technical assistance by means of: consultant
services and extension methodology studies designed to improve
existing extension programs;
(d) Specific operational programs with special emphasis on
assistance to low-income farmers by means of:  production
systems, field demonstration plots, pilot farm cooperatives
and "artisanal" fisheries colonies.
3.06      Investments would be made under three main categories:  (a) capital
investments for civil works, vehicles, equipment, library and documentation
systems and office furnishing; (b) technical services to include long- and
short-term fellowship programs, specialized short courses, pre- and in-service
training, use of consultant services and methodology studies, and (c) incre-
mental establishment costs to cover salaries of additional staff, materials
and supplies, and the necessary operational costs for such incremental staff
during the four-year project period.



- 20 -
3.07      The project would be national in scope but two-thirds of the
emphasis would be placed in the priority areas of the North, Northeast and
Central-West. The remaining Southeast and Southern regions would be
considered non-priority areas. The project is thus complementary to the
Bank's Agricultural Research I Project (Loan 1249-BR). It also supplements
the PROCENSUL project, partially funded by an IDB loan, which provides assis-
tance to research and extension programs in the non-priority areas described
above.
C. Detailed Features
Capital Investments
3.08      These would include:  (a) the construction of eight training centers,
10 offices for state EMATERs, 20 base-operation complexes for "artisanal"
fishery colonies (including storage facilities) and 10 offices for model
fisheries cooperatives. Land purchase, although not financed under the loan,
would be a capital cost at 40 of the 48 building sites; (b) 4,263 vehicles of
all types including field vehicles, trucks and small buses; (c) equipment
and furnishings for 10 offices and 24 libraries; (d) printing, audio visual
and communications equipment for 600 documentation centers; and (e) farm and
fisheries equipment for 8 training centers, 10 production systems units, and
20 pilot model fisheries colonies.
Training and Technical Assistance
3.09      Pre- and in-service training courses for a total of 4,725 1/ incoming
staff and annual training for an average of 3,400 permanent technical staff
would be provided at the eight training centers. In addition, short courses
in specific subjects in the areas of library science, communications, data
processing and fisheries would be provided for 381 field and administrative
staff. A fellowship program to provide post graduate training for selected
subject specialists would include 174 at the MSc level and 36 at the PhD level.
Seventy-five manyears of consultancy services, either local or expatriate
according to need and availability, would be provided in eight specific
study areas as follows: (a) Administration; (b) Monitoring and Evaluation;
(c) Training and Human Resource Development; (d) Architecture and Engineer-
ing (civil works supervision); (e) Extension Methodology Research;
(f) Communications; (g) Fiscal Management; and (h) Data Processing. Under
the same technical assistance program funds would be made available to carry
out extension methodology studies in three selected states representative of
the challenges to be encountered at the various levels of the rural development
process. Methods whereby group communication can supercede individual contact
between extensionist and farmer would be tested and evaluated.
1/   Includes a 30% increase over designated recruitment level to cover
normal attrition during project period, but particularly during first
year of service.



- 21 -
Incremental Establishment Costs
3.10      In crder to achieve the rapid expansion in extension coverage from
565,000 farmers in 1977 (the current level) to 1.3 million farmers in 1981
(as proposed under the project) an additional 3,734 extension staff would be
recruited. This is at first glance an appreciable figure but it should be
viewed in the context of a very large country (8.5 million sq. km) and the
fact that new staff would be dispersed between 23 separate state extension
services and EMBRATER headquarters. It should also be borne in mind that
even with the additional staff the combined extension services are only pre-
dicated to be able to reach about a quarter of the country's farmers. The bulk
of the new staff would be technicians, either actual field and extension
program staff (2,692) or technical support staff (368). The remainder (674)
would be clerical and administrative staff. Thus the emphasis of this compo-
nent of the project is on strengthening technical capability and coverage at
the field level. Details of the work (programs) on which they would be
deployed are provided later in this report and are tabulated in Annex 3, Tables
11 and 12 As a result of the project the total numbers of all staff involved
in the SIBRATER system (EMBRATER, EMATERs and ASTERs) would increase from
14,760 in 1977 to 18,494 in 1981 an increase of 25% over a four-year period
(Annex 3, Table 13 and 14). The project would also finance, in addition to the
salaries of incremental staff, the incremental operating costs incurred
by such staff.
D. Project Costs
3.11      The total cost of the project over the four-year period (1978-81) is
estimated at US$284.9 million, of which about US$40.4 million, or 14%, repre-
sents the foreign exchange component. Costs are summarized in the table
overleaf and are detailed in Annex 3, Tables 15 and 16. Costs were estimated
at the end of November 1977 with a current cruzeiros/dollar exchange rate of
Cr$15.435 to US$1.00. Physical contingencies 1/ were estimated to be 4% of
baseline cost. Price contingencies of 19% 2/ were calculated assuming that
commitments would not begin before May 1978. Baseline costs of US$231.5
million were estimated from prices at appraisal (June/July 1977) and adjusted
to reflect November 1977 prices.
1/   Physical contingencies were calculated as follows:  20% on civil works,
this high contingency is necessary due to the large number and great
diversity of the construction component with several small buildings
at remote sites not clearly identified; 5% on vehicles and farm equip-
ment; 7% on all other capital items; and 10% on materials, supplies
and other operating costs and 0% on all other items.
2/   Price contingencies were calculated in US$ terms as follows:  for civil
works, 9% per year for 1978-79 and 8% per year for 1980-81; for equipment,
7.5% per year in 1978-79 and 7% per year in 1980-81; for material,
supplies and salaries, 7% per year for the period 1978-81.



- 22 -
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Total Project Costs
(US$ millions)
% of
Total      % of
Baseline   Foreign
Capital Investments                      Local    Foreign   Total        Costs      Exchange
Civil Works                           13.98    3.50        17.48        8          20
Land Purchase                           0.13     -          0.13        *           -
Vehicles                              13.06    5.59        18.65        8          30
Office Equipment & Furnishings          3.78    2.03        5.81        2          35
Printing & Audiovisual Equipment        3.42    5.14        8.56        4          60
Communications Equipment               0.43    1.72         2.15        1          80
Farm Equipment                          1.31    0.56        1.87        1          30
Fishery Equipment                      1.92    0.21         2.13        1          10
Library Equipment & Furnishings         0.71    0.31        1.02        *          30
Miscellaneous Capital Items             2.84    0.71        3.55        1          20
Sub-total                                 41.58   19.77       61.35       26          30
Training and Technical Assistance
Pre- & In-service Training             5.24      -          5.24        2           -
Short Courses                          0.17    0.67         0.84        *          80
Short- & Long-Term Fellowships         1.15    3.45         4.60        2          75
Consultants                            2.25    3.38         5.63        3          60
Methodology Studies                     2.71     -          2.71        1           -
Sub-total                                 11.52    7.50       19.02        8          40
Incremental Establishment Costs
Staff Salaries                       124.72      -        124.72       54           -
Materials & Supplies                    9.28    3.98       13.26        6          30
Other Operating Costs                 13.20      -         13.20        6           -
Sub-total                                147.20    3.98      151.18       66           3
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                     200.30   31.25      231.55      100          14
Physical Contingencies                     6.59    2.20        8.79        4          25
Price Contingencies                       37.63    6.95       44.58       19          16
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      244.52   40.40      284.92      123          14
* Less than 0.5%



- 23 -
E. Financing
3.12      The proposed Bank loan of US$100.0 million to the Federative Republic
of Brazil would finance 35% of total project costs. The Government, through
specific budget allocations to EMBRATER, would finance US$111.0 million (39%)
and the rema4ning US$73.9 (26%) would be financed by the state/territory exten-
sion agencies, under individual contract agreements with EMBRATER. The pro-
posed loan would be for 15 years including three years of grace. In a country
like Brazil, which is making a vigorous effort to mobilize domestic resources,
it appears appropriate for the Bank to give some assistance in the financing
of local currency expenditures on projects whicb, like the present one, have
very high priority and yet have a very low foreign exchange content (in the
present case, i4%). If the Bank is to be effective in supporting projects of
this kind5 having a significant impact on the agricultural production of basic
food crops and the welfare of the rural poor, it seems reasonable for it
to contribute at least 35% of the costs even though this entails financing
some local currency expenditures. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that (a) the Government provide, in a timely manner, the funds
necessary for EMBRATER to execute the project and that (b) contractual arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank would be entered into between EMBRATER and its
associates under which each EMATER/ASTER would agree, inter alia, to submit to
EMBRATER for approval, by October 31 of each year, its annual budget for the
following year, which budgets would include adequate allocations from the
state to cover expenditures required for the project and not covered from
other sources. The conclusion of such arrangements would be a condition of
disbursement in respect of expenditures of the EMATER/ASTER concerned. The
proposed phasing of investments is given in Annex 3 (Tables 15 and 16).
Proposed financing would be as shown below:
Government          Bank           Total
US$M     %       US$M      %     Investment
Capital Investments                     36.2    59        25.1     41        61.3
Training and Technical Assistance         8.4    44       10.6     56        19.0
Incremental Establishment Costs        107.5    71        43.7     29       151.2
Base Line Cost                         152.1    66        79.4     34       231.5
Physical and Price Contingencies        32.8    61        20,6     39        53.4
Total Project Cost                  184.9    65       100.0     35       284.9
F. Procurement
3.13      The major item for procurement is civil works (US$17.48 million).
This covers the construction of a total of 48 buildings. Brazil has a compe-
titive local construction industry capable of carrying out project works being
financed. Major contracts would be just under US$1.0 million each for the
eight training centers and 10 state EMATER offices. At the remaining 30
construction sites contracts would be for approximately US$150,000 each. Due
to the very dispersed nature of these contracts it is doubtful whether foreign



- 24 -
contractors, or even major national contractors, would be interested in such
small individual construction contracts. Contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised nationally in the case of the
training centers and state EMATER offices and locally advertised in the case
of other project facilities and in accordance with local procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign bidders would not be excluded. In remote
areas, where it is difficult to obtain contractors through competitive bidding,
work for force account would be permitted. About 4,260 vehicles (US$18.65
million) would be procured under the project, over a period of four years, for
use in widely dispersed locations. Since vehicles would be purchased in small
lots, and adequate maintenance and availability of spares is of critical
importance, locally manufactured vehicles of types already used by government
departments are preferred. Therefore, contracts for vehicles would be let on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Farm and fisheries
equipment (US$4.0 million) and office equipment and furniture (US$5.8 million)
would be required at widely dispersed locations and contracts for those items
would also be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with local procedures.
3.14      Printing, audio-visual and communications equipment (US$10.7 million)
is often highly specialized and after-sales service is of critical importance
for such items. Since servicing must be available locally, local competitive
bidding under procedures acceptable to the Bank would be followed for items
estimated to cost US$10,000 or more, and prudent shopping would be followed
for items of lesser value.
3.15      Library equipment and furnishing (US$1.02 million) which are of local
manufacture, with a very competitive field of suppliers, would be procured
according to Goverment procedures which are satisfactory to Bank. Training and
technical assistance services, (US$19.02 m) comprising pre-service and in-
service training, methodology studies, consultancy services, fellowships for
advanced training and specialized short courses would be either obtained abroad
(32%) or in Brazil (68%). In view of the difficulty of locating competent
specialists abroad, and of arranging and monitoring the overseas training,
EMBRATER would utilize the services of one or more agencies with qualifications
and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist
it in obtaining technical assistance services from abroad and in administering
the overseas training included in the project. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
G. Disbursement
3.16      The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) 100% of all direct
foreign exchange expenditures (US$14.8 million), and (b) 35% of all other
project expenditures (US$85.2 million), but excluding those for materials,
supplies, other operating costs and land purchase. Details of the expected
disbursements of the Bank Loan by project component are given in Annex 3,
Table 17.



- 25 -
3.17      Disbursement requests would be submitted by EMBRATER to the Bank
accompanied by appropriate documentation showing proof of bidding procedures,
assignment of contracts for services and receipts of payments made against
such documentation. In the case of incremental staff salaries, the appro-
priate documentation would be a summary of those staff salaries applicable to
the project and based on positions incremental to the staff list at December 31,
1977.  The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in Annex 3 (Table 18).
H. Accounts and Audit
3.18      Separate accounts would be kept by EMBRATER of expenditures made
under the project. These would be audited anniually for each fiscal year, in
accordance with sound auditing principles, consistently applied. Accountts
would be submitted for audit within three months of each year, and submitted
to the Bank promptly. Certificates of expenditures, including satisfactory
evidence of incremental staff salaries, would be audited aL least once in
six months and the report furnished to the Bank. EMBRATER's accounts have
been audited in recent years by the firm of Laudon, Blomquist and Co. Suicable
assurances covering these accounting and auditing requirements by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank were obtained at negotiations.



- 26 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      Headquarters Administration.  The federal agency (EMBRATER) would
have full responsibility for the formulation of project policy and directives
to ensure that project implementation achieves the desired objectives. To
this end it would also coordinate the essential phases of project monitoring
and evaluation of results at the total project (federal) level. Execution
and actual implementation of project programs, at the field (i.e., farm) level
would be the responsibility of the associate agencies (EMATERs and ASTERs),
working through the state or territorial offices as the case may be. Project
staffing has been evaluated and incremental staff included as necessary to
carry out the tasks assigned.
4.02      Liaison between Federal and State Levels.  As both federal and state
organizations have basically the same administrative structure (see Annex 3,
Charts 1 and 2), the easy and direct flow of communication between corre-
sponding levels of administration affecting operations at both state and
federal levels would continue as at present. The only change would be the
establishment of a project coordinator in the Technical Support Unit, in the
Operations Department of EMBRATER. The office of the coordinator would, as
in other areas of administration, have direct access to counterpart staff in
the Technical Support Units of the State EMATERs and would be directly respon-
sible to the chief of EMBRATER's Operations Department.
4.03      Technical Support Unit.  The necessary technical and administrative
services required by the project coordinator to monitor the progress of
project implementation would be supplied by those departments responsible,
i.e., Planning, Program Development, Administration and Finance, and Operations.
For the supervision of the civil works component, the consultant services of
a civil engineering/architectural firm would be provided under the Technical
Assistance component (Annex 3, Table 19). The project coordinator would
handle project-related correspondence with the Bank through the office of the
Department of Operations and the Presidency of EMBRATER. The project coordi-
nator would also be responsible for the submission of project progress reports,
at six-monthly intervals, as required by the Bank. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
4.04      Policy Review and Program Planning.  All programs which would be
implemented under the project strongly reflect current policy planning for
agricultural production and rural development.
4.05      Budgeting of Programs at State Level.  All programs require close
collaboration at the federal (EMBRATER) and state (EMATER) levels. The fiscal
year corresponds to the calendar year for the (SIBRATER) system and the budget-
ing process commences during May/June of the previous year in the department
of operations in each EMATER. These plans then pass to the programming and
budgetary unit for review and there undergo cost/ finance reconciliation in
the department of administration and finance. When approved by the president's



- 27 -
council, the state (EMATER) budgets then go to EMBRATER headquarters in
Brasilia about July/August. A similar operational-planning-financial and
advisory board review takes place at the EMBRATER level. However, federal
policies on a regional rather than state basis are considered aDa state plans
may be revised accordingly. Budgets, as approved by EMBRATER are then returned
to the states in September and final adjustments made no later than October.
B. Field Implementation and Extension Methodology
4.06      As already mentioned, for administrative purposes much of the work
of the extension services is classified under various specific programs (para
2.11). Under the proposed project certain of these programs would be substan-
tially strengthened and expanded, the details being as follows:
Production Systems
4.07      Considerable research effort is being devoted to devising improved
cropping patterns and agronomic practices for adoption by farmers, the results
of which are being translated into technical bulletins advising farmers on the
merits of various farming systems. Some 247 such bulletins have already been
produced, 195 dealing with crops and 52 with livestock. The methods used are
simple and straightforward and involve cooperation between extension and
research personnel. The program is currently administered by the Departments
of Operations at both federal and state levels. The expanded program proposed
under the project would be administered in the same way. There is one manager
for the federal program, stationed at EMBRATER headquarters, and he supervises
the five regional managers in the major regions of the country. Regional
managers make contact with program supervisors in each state through the EMATER
or ASTER. State and regional managers report to the national program manager
and plan the Production Systems Program and budget for each year based on
state, regional and national priorities derived through consultation with pro-
ducers, research staff and field extension staff. Crop production specialists
from EMBRATER are also used as advisors during the planning and evaluation
stages. Based on the experience of the past few years (1974-77) EMBRATER
staff have noted that the farming systems programs for annual crops require
revision every two years while those for biennials or perennials may only
require revision every three to five years. In the case of livestock, certain
individual aspects, i.e., pasture management, nutrition or breeding may be the
subject of specialized bulletins issued every three to five years.
4.08      The incremental staffing requirement for the expanded program would
be 24 additional technical staff, mainly crop specialists (21) and three
regional managers. Staff distribution by region is shown at Annex 3, Table
13. About 80% of the staff will, in effect, work in the priority areas. The
new program goal for the project period is for 285 new bulletins with distri-
bution as follows: annual crops 122; perennial and tree crops 83; and live-
stock 80. An average of 5,000 copies of each bulletin would be printed for
use by EMBRAPA and EMBRATER staff. This program is also useful in that it
provides a non-formal, in-service training facility for technical field



- 28 -
personnel of the extension service. Appropriate candidates are selected from
the region to attend the meetings at which the farming systems are elaborated.
The selected candidates also make periodic visits to the experimental fields
and farm trial plots involved in the specific program during the growing
season. Such attendance is usually limited to five extension agents (trainees)
per subproject. Based on the figure of 285 such subprojects for the four-year
period, this training exercise should reach a total of 1,425 technicians.
Field Demonstration Plots
4.09      Extensive use is already made of demonstration plots, often coupled
with field days for farmers groups, to disseminate ideas on new agronomic
practices. They are for the most part elaborately planned some 9-12 months
ahead of time by extension and research staff working in close cooperation.
The entire demonstration plot program is operated as a national program with
EMBRATER providing overall policy and planning to provide the desired regional
emphasis. There are a project manager and two assistants in EMBRATER while
each EMATER has a manager for field operations for the program within the
state. Project managers, at the federal and state levels report to the Chief
of Operations in each case. As a direct result of increasing the number of
demonstration plots, an assistant project manager would be assigned in 11
states and an additional 60 field technicians would be required under the
program. These would be employed at the state level for program implementa-
tion, with approximately five additional staff members per state in 12 selected
states in the priority regions. Ten technical support staff per state would
also be added and 10 at EMBRAPA headquarters to operate publications and audio
visual aids programs based on the field demonstration plot technique.
4.10      Program goals call for 676 plots in the first project year; 598 the
second year, 715 the third year and 586 by the fourth year. As only those for
annual crops are changed on an annual basis and those for permanent crops, and
pasture for livestock, may continue for several years, the figures represent
the number of plots being maintained in any one year. As with the farming
systems program, training opportunities would be extended to a fairly wide range
of extension agents in the state where demonstration plot work is being carried
out. Such training sessions are usually held in conjunction with field-days
and although they do not constitute a strongly structured and carefully super-
vised meeting, they are invaluable as a non-formal training exercise. It is
estimated that at least 800 field technicians would benefit from such training
over the four-year project period.
Cooperative Program
4.11      The difficulties which are often encountered when developing the
cooperative movement amongst farmers, particularly small farmers, are well
known. Brazilian experience has been that one of the keys to success is good
management, but it is not easy to identify the management required from the
membership of the cooperative, nor is it easy to retain it once found. Various
approaches have been tried extensively in the past by various agencies, includ-
ing the extension services. One method that has worked is for management to be
provided on secondment to a particular cooperative by the extension service.
Currently 404 cooperatives are being assisted in a total of 21 states, 307 of



- 29 -
which (or 76%) are in the project priority area and the remaining 96 (24%)
in the non-priority area. The proposed project would increase this number
to 624. The nlumber of farmers in each cooperative varies greatly but using
an average of 250 per unit, assistance would be provided to an additional
47,500 families in the priority area and 7,500 in the non-priority area.
EMBRATER will supply the administrative assistance of one manager and one
accountant for each of the 220 proposed new cooperatives. Incremental staff
for the program would number 460. The administration and supervision of this
staff will fall directly under the Operations Department of the EMATER or
ASTER concerned, while planning at the EMBRATER level would be the responsibil-
ity of the project manager of the Operations Department for national programs.
Fishery Program
4.12      For a number of years, dating back to the period of ABCAR administra-
tion, the state extension services have been assisting fishermen, particularly
those in fishing colonies strung out along the coast. Such assistance is very
necessary since surveys have shown that particularly acute poverty exists in
the artisanal fishing industry. At present staffing is minimal with only one
extension agent for each local office where there is a well established colony
of artisanal fishermen. In some cases a home economist is also available to
work with the families of the fishermen. Local administration and supervision
of these two-member teams comes directly under the coordinator of the local
extension office. Under the expanded program, financed under the project,
administration and supervision would remain as above, but staff would be in-
creased to six as follows: extension agent, home economist, fisheries special-
ist, plus a management team comprising a manager, accountant and administrative
assistant. A further function of this latter three-man team would be to
encourage the colony to form a cooperative. Total incremental staff for the
program would number 150. It is proposed that 20 colonies would benefit under
this program with regional distribution as follows: North five; Northeast ten;
Southeast two; South three. Assistance for the formation of fishing coopera-
tives would be provided to two colonies in the north and eight in the northeast.
It is estimated that some 10,770 fishermen could benefit in the north and
northeast priority regions plus 7,130 in the non-priority regions of the south
and southeast.
Library and Documentation Services
4.13      It is currently policy to improve library facilities within the
entire SIBRATER organization in order to provide a comprehensive efficiently
operated system whereby information and documentation exchange can effectively
take place at the national level. Policy and general guidance on methodology
is provided by a headquarters unit, Department of Information and Documentation
(DID) at EMBRATER. Although the latter is charged with providing general
operational guidelines the state units operate their own Documentary Systems
Departments. The proposed component for strengthening library and documenta-
tion services would provide the necessary library facilities for the receipt,
storage and dissemination of appropriate materials for use by all technicians
within the extension system. Such services would be standardized at local,
state and federal levels to make the information readily available to anyone



- 30 -
requesting it within the system. Such services would also be made available
to cooperating governmental institutions and to universities, research centers
and selected international institutions where interchange agreements can be
effective. Additional staff requirements would be 32, while the existing staff
of 52 would be upgraded through technical assistance and study programs under
the project.
Data Systems
4.14      Much of the current information available concerning the agricultural
sector is, in fact, generated by the extension agents. However, most of these
data, such as crop reporting (i.e., area, yield and production data) are
collected for other agencies, such as the government crop storage company
(CIBRAZEM) and the Brazilian Food Company (COBAL). Much of this information
then passes outside the extension system and is lost.
4.15      The first objective of the reorganized data collection process would
be to standardize the methodology used so that it can be brought under national,
as opposed to merely regional or state focus. Functional steps such as collec-
tion methods, processing analysis, dissemination and storage (data bank) would
be systematized within the SIBRATER system. Secondary objectives would be to
improve the quality of the service being provided by: (a) increasing accuracy
and reliability of the information provided, (b) implementing an interlocking
system with other similar and relevant data collecting operations to provide
interchange of data, (c) centralizing the storage of data in order to provide
rapid assistance to collaborating agencies and for EMBRATER's own planning
and administrative needs. To achieve these objectives under the program
EMBRATER, and its data processing units, would work closely with the National
System for Rural Information (SNIR).
4.16      Currently, at both federal and state levels both the Library-
Documentation and Current Data Systems Units are operationally responsible
to the Departments of Planning. As there is a certain complementarity of
functions between the two units, a formal administrative merging into one
documentation unit is contemplated. For the purposes of project planning and
financing, however, current data systems have been considered as a separate
program. Currently, there are 23 operational units under the SIBRATER system;
22 of these being in the states, with the exception of Sao Paulo State which
has its own autonomous system under CATI. The remaining unit is at EMBRATER
headquarters, Brazilia. The existing units are classified by size, i.e. eight
small, 11 medium and four large units. Staffing at June 1977 comprised 73 staff
with an average of two per small unit, three per medium unit and five per large
unit. Incremental staff requirements under the project would number 34 for a
total staff of 107 at project completion; the corresponding distribution,
according to unit size, would be three, five and seven.
4.17      A total of four manyears of technical assistance would be required
during the first two years of work program preparation for operations. Such
assistance would provide specialized planning for (a) a diagnosis of the
requirements of each state (EMATER or associate company), (b) criteria to
evaluate both supply and demand function of information in each state, and
(c) development of an operational plan based on (a) and (b) above.



- 31 -
Audio Visual Aids
4.18      As already noted, the current farmer-contact method used by the
extension agent in the field is almost entirely on an intensive "one to one"
basis between extension agent and farmer. One of the reasons for this close
relationship has been the extensive use of extension agents for the super-
vision of credit. As a result, however, farmer contacts per agent are fre-
quently very low. Obviously, if contacts are to be increased to the 130-140
range, a different technique for dissemination of agricultural technology
must be employed. Key features of the methodology to be used under the
project include:
(a) A gradual shift from the individual farmer approach to one
of group contact by the extension worker;
(b) The use of audio visual aids and printed matter, where
applicable, to be used to the fullest extent possible;
(c) Staff to be trained in the handling and maintenance of
the new equipment;
(d) A monitoring and evaluation system provided to achieve
maximum adaptive response to the system at the farm level.
4.19      Production units for printed matter, films, photographic slides and
radio programs would be set up in each state, usually at the central offices
of the EMATER or ASTER in the state capitol or territorial headquarters.
The administration of such units will be the responsibility of the state
(territory) headquarters offices. Additional specialized staff will be
required to operate the equipment in the fields of printing, photography,
radio programming and audio-visual cassette preparation. Staffing require-
ments for the entire project would be 371. These include 234 in the area
of publications; 20 for the production of audio visuals; 90 for the prepara-
tion and presentation of radio programs and 27 support personnel. Overall
administration would be the responsibility of the Program Unit, under the
Department of Operations at both the state (EMATER) and federal (EMBRATER)
levels. As most of the technical functions required under the program are
relatively new to existing extension staff, it will be necessary to train
36 staff members in the fields of printing, photography, radio programming
and the production of audio visual cassettes. Twelve of these training
courses would be given abroad and would last four months per course. In
addition, 24 technicians would receive two months training courses in Brazil.
Extension Methodology Studies
4.20      In the two years since assuming control of the extension system
network (SIBRATER) at the national level, EMBRATER has not imposed a uniform
extension methodology at the field level. Nor should it attempt to do so
until many of the problems unique to the rapidly evolving agricultural industry
can be adequately studied to provide the most effective methods to be applied
in each case. A major factor influencing the continued use of current tech-
niques, largely inherited from the previous ABCAR system, has been the reliance



- 32 -
on the credit system as a partial source of funding for state extension
programs. Another major factor is the multiplicity of programs having differ-
ent levels of federal and state priority, usually reflected in the degree of
funding from each. The exceedingly wide variation in population density, from
a high of 43.9 per square km in the southeast to a low of 1.0 per square km in
the north gives some indication of the difficulties involved. The need for
methodology studies, and some trial programs, becomes an obvious first step
which must be undertaken before the introduction of new extension techniques
on a large scale.
4.21      The basic objective of these studies would be to provide the most
effective combination of methodology and techniques which would enable limited
numbers of field extensionists to reach an increasing number of farmers and
their families. As a first step, three states would be chosen where the
EMATER is willing to enter into an agreement with EMBRATER for the study
program to be executed. Since each state has particular constraints which
cause problems for extension services, i.e., based on (a) farm size, (b) land
ownership pattern, (c) predominant crops being grown, and (d) relative devel-
opment of basic infrastructure, the first essential would be a study of the
particular problem in the selected states. This would mainly be a "base-line
study" to determine the situation at that time, even before starting the
trials of new methodology, to obtain a basis for selecting the new techniques
to be tried. Objectives of the study should be clearly stated. This would
be followed by a planning period to decide upon the best test methodology to
be implemented. The third stage would be the actual implementation of the
methodology chosen, including the training of personnel involved. The entire
study would normally not encompass a period greater than two years, although
monitoring should continue for an additional year.
4.22      EMBRATER management has been advised of the success of the training
and visit system in several Bank funded projects in India. Also recently
prepared rural development projects in the states of Ceara and Bahia have
included a modification of this technique to be applied to the agricultural
extension component of these projects. Modification has comprised basically
a separation of duties, other than pure extension, to permit the field exten-
sion agent to devote his full time to agricultural extension. It is believed
that this could be an important first step in separating the credit function
from the extension service. It is too early to evaluate these trials in Brazil
but EMBRATER has shown a willingness to collaborate with state EMATERs in
these efforts. Also under the project, the availability of funding for
specialized short courses would permit key extension staff to view this, and
other systems, in countries such as India and Mexico where innovation in agri-
cultural extension methods is taking place.
4.23      The administration of these studies, including planning, execution,
monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of EMBRATER. However,
they would work closely with the EMATER concerned, based upon a plan to be
mutually approved, before the study subproject is initiated. Administrative
and field staff (10) would be provided by the Planning Department of EMBRATER
and key technical staff, mainly consultants engaged for the study period only,
would also be supplied through EMBRATER. All field staff for execution of the



- 33 -
project would be supplied by the local EMATER through the appropriate depart-
ment of planning and would be extension staff as normally assigned to the
particular study area.
4.24      A total of ten manyears of consultants would be made available for
the planning, monitoring and evaluation functions of the methods selected.
Such technical assistance would be administered through EMBRATER. Assignments
would tend to be long term, for the first year, or planning phase, but could
be adjusted to short term for the monitoring and evaluation phases. Distri-
bution would be for four manyears at the federal (EMBRATER) level and six
manyears at the state (EMATER) level. In addition, funds would be made avail-
able to contract university teams for specific studies. These would take
place during the first three years of project execution and would be based
on a detailed contractual arrangement between EMBRATER and the university
concerned. Specific study plans would be prepared by EMBRATER and discussed
with the university staff concerned prior to the signing of the contract.
4.25      Planning and base line studies would be carried out by EMATER
personnel under the direction of EMBRATER staff, responsible to the Planning
Departments in each case. Monitoring would be carried out by EMBRATER staff,
at previously designated intervals and, after the basic two-year study, for
an additional year. The local staff would participate by providing the neces-
sary field data. Evaluation would be carried out at the end of the test
period (several agricultural seasons) and would be carried out by the
groups involved in the study, i.e., representatives from farmers/producers,
research personnel, extension personnel (state and federal level) and the
consultants engaged for the specific study.
C. Staff Training and Technical Assistance
Staff Training
4.26      Long- and Short-Term Fellowships.  A total of 210 employees of the
SIBRATER system (EMBRATER/EMATERs) would be trained at post graduate university
level during the project period. Of these 174 would study for the MSc degree,
mainly in areas designed to provide the increased number of subject matter
specialists under the project, i.e., crop and animal husbandry, soil conser-
vation, food storage, cooperatives and inland fisheries. A few would also
study administration in the areas of library, documentation and current data
processing. Of the 174 candidates 99 would study abroad and 75 in Brazil.
In addition 36 candidates would receive post-graduate degree fellowships for
study at the PhD level. Of these (PhD) fellowship programs, 10 would be abroad
and 26 in Brazil. These staff members, on return from university, would fill
positions as program specialists, and in advisory, planning and liaison roles
between EMBRATER and the EMATERs at the state level for the evaluation of
programs and would work closely with the research organization (EMBRATER) in
the interpretation of government policy concerning specific crops. Doctoral
candidates (three) would also provide inputs to methodology studies, monitoring
and evaluation at the federal level. As under currently established fellow-
ship programs, candidates would be required to sign a contract with EMBRATER



- 34 -
stating their willingness to work for the institution on completion of studies
for a period equal to that of the fellowship provided.
4.27      Specialized Courses.  A total of 381 staff members, 256 abroad and
125 in Brazil, would attend short courses of four months and two months respec-
tively. Courses would be selected principally in the areas of support services
a' t-o train personnel in the use of new equipment, i.e., printing and litho-
graDn, technical photography, audio-visual programming, data processing, docu-
mentation, cooperative management and simple food storage techniques for both
crops and fish.
4.28      Pre-service Training.  This training would be carried out under the
administration of the Human Resources Department of EMBRATER. Pre-service
courses of 30 work days would be provided for all incoming (incremental) staff
and would thus provide training for 4,725 students, allowing for the tradi-
tional 30% "drop out" factor, over the four-year project period. In this way
total incremental staff would be 3,634 as shown. Courses are designed for
40 students and capacity at the eight training centers to be provided under
the project would absorb 50% (six months) training program capacity at each
of these centers, i.e., courses would be provided at approximately two-month
intervals.
4.29      In-service Training.  This would comprise essentially refresher
courses of 15 days' duration each year. Following a general updating of exten-
sion methodology currently in use the curriculum would be more flexible as
compared to the fixed course content of the pre-service training exercise.
Study subjects would be designed to cover problem areas in current programs,
i.e., crops, livestock, credit, cooperatives, fisheries, current data docu-
mentation and communications, according to the requirements of (a) the region,
(b) agents selected, and (c) policy and priority directives pertaining to the
specific area of operations. The training officers of the Human Resources
Unit, under the Department of Program Development at the federal and state
levels, would be responsible for curriculum development of these courses. By
year four of the project, it is estimated that 13,500 participants (8,000
technicians and 5,500 administrative and support staff) would participate in
in-service training courses each year. Courses for the 8,000 technicians would
occupy the eight training center facilities for six months of the year (10
courses of 80 students each) and courses for administrative personnel would
cover subjects such as personnel management, accounting and finance, organiza-
tion, marketing, data gathering and retrieval systems, etc., would be handled
either at federal or state headquarters facilities or in cooperation with local
schools or facilities providing business administration or communications
courses, as the case may be.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.30      Monitoring.  Overall monitoring and internal reporting of physical
and financial inputs under the SIBRATER system is the responsibility of
respective monitoring and evaluation units, and the financial accounting units,
under the departments of Planning, Administration and Finance, respectively,



- 35 -
at both state (EMATER) and federal (EMBRATER) levels. The unit responsible
for complying with reporting requirements to the Bank and for handling all
queries concerning project implementation would be the Technical Support Unit
of the Operations Department, at the federal level (see para 4.03 and Annex 3,
Charts 1 and 2). The project coordinator in the latter unit would work
closely with the departments concerned to discriminate program components
under the Agricultural Extension I Project from other programs within
SIBRATER's general operations.
4.31      Evaluation.  Effective evaluation requires continuous and accurate
data gathering. Some project components, such as the documentation and current
data systems, are expected to contribute to the effectiveness of project eval-
uation. Also, under the project the Monitoring and Evaluation Units at state
and federal levels are to be strengthened with additional personnel and
requisite training courses. Uniformity of data reporting, at present faulty,
would be strengthened by the programs under the documentation unit mentioned
above. The evaluation process is one which is essential to the entire SIBRATER
system and is currently being evaluated by EMBRATER administration. The focus-
ing of Bank loan related programs within the SIBRATER system would be the
basis for reporting procedures to the Bank and the responsibility of the
project coordinator (see para 4.03). The project coordinator would also
assume prime responsibility for the project evaluation report that would be
required by the Bank upon project completion. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that a project completion and evaluation report be pro-
vided to the Bank within six months of project completion. This exercise
would form an integral part, and would not be alien to, the normal monitoring
and evaluation process for the project. Detailed discussion of the Monitoring
and Evaluation program to be implemented is provided in Annex 1.
4.32      Technical Assistance.  Although the basic monitoring and evaluation
units are in place, both at the state and federal levels, there is a need for
greater integration of the two levels so that comparative evaluations can be
made. As a first step uniformity in data collection procedure is essential
and the key questions as to what, when and where data will be collected, and
over what time period can only be answered after a uniform model for analysis
and evaluation has been prepared. In order to assist in effecting the neces-
sary changes, under the current administrative model, the project would
finance consultants to deal specifically with monitoring and management pro-
cedures for the entire SIBRATER system, of which project related activities
form an integral part. Six consultant manyears would be allotted for this
purpose, under the general technical assistance program (para. 3.09). The
cost of such consultancy services, for both Brazilian and expatriate consul-
tants is US$75,000 per manyear.
4.33      Civil Works Implementation.  To ensure that the civil works program
is adequately supervised and that implementation is commenced at an early
stage in the project cycle, the Bank obtained assurances at negotiations
that EMBRATER would: (a) engage the consultancy services of a competent
three-man civil engineering/architect team to work with EMBRATER's Technical
Support Unit (TSU) in the review of site development plans, detailed con-
struction plans and review of contract bids for the civil works component; and



- 36 -
(b) prior to August 1, 1978, present the site plans for construction projects
to be carried out during the remainder of calendar 1978. Such site plans would
include those for Training Centers, in pre-selected states; plus sites for
state EMATER headquarters offices and buildings required under the "Artisan"
Fishery Colonies program, in states yet to be designated. EMBRATER would also
submit an annual (calendar year) civil works building program plus site plans
no later than November 30 of the previous year for such activities in project
years two, three and four. In the case of civil works involving the renovation
of, or addition to, existing buildings EMBRATER would ensure that the EMATER or
ASTER involved would seek, through EMBRATER, the approval of the Bank for
such building plans before inviting bids in the proposed construction con-
tracts. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. The pro-
posed construction schedule under the civil works program is provided at
Annex 3 Chart 4. Conditions of disbursement of funds against the civil works
component, would be that: (a) EMBRATER had furnished evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that it or the EMATER/ASTER concerned has legal title or other ade-
quate right to the land on which it is proposed to construct project facilities
(b) consultants had been retained and would be available for supervision of
the implementation of the civil works component during the period of project
execution. Assurances to this effect were also obtained at negotiations.
4.34      Project Goals and Implementation Schedules.  A major objective of
the project is to strengthen existing extension services through the program
approach (4.07 to 4.12). There is also a need to adopt new methodology, as
may be necessary and based on local conditions, to ensure that the individual
field extension agent is increasingly relieved of duties pertaining to credit
supervision and health and social welfare programs. In order to ensure an
orderly and balanced development of the programs to be financed under the
project, assurances were obtained at negotiations that EMBRATER would prepare
and furnish to the Bank for review and comment: (a) by June 30 of each year
appropriate guidelines regarding priority programs, regions and target groups
for use by the EMATERs/ASTERs in connection with the preparation of their
annual operational budget; (b) by November 30 of each year the proposed
programs (PROATERs) and related budgets of the EMATERs/ASTERs for the follow-
ing year. Assurances were also obtained that EMBRATER would: (a) by June 30,
1980, or such later date as may be mutually agreed by EMBRATER and the Bank,
review with the Bank progress made under the project and the extent to which
project objectives are being achieved; and (b) introduce such changes in
project content or mode of implementation as the Bank shall reasonably request
in the light of such review. A table showing physical goals to be achieved
to complete project implementation within the four-year period is provided at
Annex 3 Table 20. A project implementation schedule by project years is given
at Annex 3, Chart 5. A summary of program objectives at full implementation is
is provided at Annex 3, Chart 6.



- 37 -
V. PRODUCTION AND TECHNOLOGY
Impact on Production
5.01      Experiince in other countries has shown that providing extension
services as visualized under the project should have, over a period of
time, considerable impact on total national agricultural production. How-
ever, since a wide variety of crops is grown in Brazil over a very wide
range of physical circumstances by many different types of farmers, it is
virtually impossible to quantify and detail the extent of the increased pro-
duction. The efficiency of production should also be improved as a result of
the adoption of improved technology by farmers but this too is difficult to
quantify. To the extent possible the increases in production that should be
achieved as a result of the project are mentioned in the section dealing with
economic analysis (paras 7.04-7.06).
Impact on the Extension Services
5.02      The project would have an appreciable impact on the country's
extension services. It would encourage greater efficiency and output
per extensionist, in part due to more emphasis being placed on group
methods of extension and in part due to greatly improved back-up services.
In addition, the proposed methodology studies would test and evaluate new
technologies related to the main task of information dissemination and
rural education. Although there are wide variations according to region,
each extension worker currently contacts about 80 farm families, or a
total of 565,000 families. Under the project it is proposed that, by use
of additional facilities and new technology each agent should be able to
contact an average of 140 families or a 75% increase in efficiency. Based
on these assumptions, the proposed increment of 34% (2,419) technical field
personnel to the total SIBRATER staff would show a corresponding increase of
approximately 130% in the number of farmers contacted at year five of project,
thereby providing assistance to a total of 1.3 million farm families. The
project at full development would provide employment to an additional 2,692
middle-level (high school graduate) technicians, and in addition 1,042 support
and administrative staff would be employed for a total labor increment of
3,734. The technical competency of the total 18,500 staff of the SIBRATER
system would also be upgraded. The productive capacity of some 1.3 million
families would also be enhanced by technology transfer and rural (farmer/worker)
educational programs. The availability of local farm related skills is being
improved under the SENAR program being partially funded by the Bank. 1/ This
project is expected to benefit 309,000 rural workers by 1981 and would be
complementary to the extension services. Selected local extension staff would
be called upon to teach several of the courses related to agricultural skills.
The upgrading of extension staff under the proposed project would, therefore,
provide additional benefits to the Vocational Training Project.
Impact at Farm Level
5.03      Based on number of farm properties in Brazil, 4.9 million, the rela-
tive number of agricultural holdings receiving technical assistance under the
1/   Appraisal of a Vocational Training Project, Brazil, May 26, 1977.



- 38 -
project would rise from a current 11.0% to 26.5% of the total. Quite apart
from this extended coverage to be achieved by the strengthening of the
national agricultural extension system (SIBRATER) on a national scale,
there are several direct, and indirect benefits which will accrue as the
programs become functional. These are changes directly affecting agricul-
tural production, which would result from: (a) adaptation and adoption
of new technology, produced by the research branch (EMBRAPA) and applied at
the farmer (producer) level; (b) increases in yields per unit area which,
apart from the direct economic effect, would permit more flexibility in the
requirements for infrastructure and rural development objectives which are
inherent in programs which merely expand the area being cultivated; (c) the
extended use of farming systems demonstration plots would not only help to
raise farm incomes but affect conservation measures so urgen-ily needed in some
areas; (d) the extended use of important inputs, auxiliary -o more intensive
production methods, such as improved seed, fertilizer, pesticides and insec-
ticides, and the rational use of credit would further stimulate the national
economy.
5.04      Several changes would take place due to the ability to both gather
and disseminate information more quickly under programs such as documentation,
audio visual and current data collection and processing systems. This would
achieve the following: (a) greatly enhance the opportunities to inform the
rural population of opportunities to improve their basic skills and standard
of living through education, home economics, health care, nutrition and
other socially oriented programs; (b) the current data provided, on crop
prospects, markets, prices, weather and federal/state programs affecting
specific crop production programs would also flow from these various aspects
of data collection and dissemination. In addition, the overall contribution,
through the interaction of increased staff capability, operating effectiveness,
and well-equipped programs with adequate financial support at both federal and
state levels would provide the federal and state institutions which are respon-
sible for the performance of the agricultural sector, not only with the means
to stimulate production but also with the current data flow necessary to
enable them to make policy decisions affecting the agricultural sector. Such
information on crop production, storage and marketing would provide the know-
ledge necessary to successfully integrate rural development programs within
the broad policy objectives of economic policy guidelines at the federal
level. Such Government policy, that of providing specific economic and social
welfare to the rural poor, would clearly benefit from the execution of the
proposed extension programs under the project.
Environmental Impact
5.05      During the current decade, and particularly during the last five
years, Government has been criticized in international forums for neglect-
ing the preservation of the natural habitat of the Amazon basin, and of the
possible rapid and irreversible damage which can accrue to the delicate
balance held by the biomass of the Amazonian forest complex. The Brazilian
Government has responded, in a positive manner, to such criticism and many
of the problems of rapid expansion along the controversial "Itransamazonica"
highway have been addressed through control legislation by Government and
implemented through the National Research Council (CNPq) and the National
Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA).



- 39 -
5.06      In addition the need for natural resource inventories, not only for
the Amazon region (North) but for the other two regions currently selected
as priority areas in the proposed agricultural extension project i.e.,
Northeast and Central-West, was given special attention in the preparation
of the Agricultural Research I Project. 1/ Under the research program special
area studies have been set up at specific natural resource research centers
in the three areas mentioned. These are located at Belem, Petrolina and
Planaltina and the research carried out at these stations and several sub-
stations throughout the area has specific emphasis on the development of viable
farming systems designed to conserve, rather than destroy, the ecosystems in
which they are located.
5.07      Based on the premise that the technology developed at these stations
will be successfully disseminated to the farmers in the three regions, it is
clear that the environmental impact of the proposed project can have a positive
effect. It cannot be assumed that the inevitable competition between produc-
tion on the one hand and conservation on the other will always be decided on
the merits of the latter. However, it has frequently been shown that the
shifting cultivation cycle, so destructive of virgin forest, can be broken.
In addition, the increase of production per unit area means that less land
need be brought under cultivation. Improved farming techniques, covering
a wide range from soil conservation, crop rotation and rational water use
(irrigation and control of damaging water flow) all serve to preserve rather
than destroy the ecological balance which is essential to increased agricul-
tural production, and agronomic stability, of the cropping systems to be
utilized on a long-term basis.
5.08      The relative success of the agricultural extension system in
preserving the environment at the agricultural frontier area will undoubtedly
depend on many factors, including official policy at the state and federal
level. However, the concepts of good agricultural husbandry, embodied in the
project goals, are entirely favorable from the viewpoint of conservation of
the environment in this case.
1/   See Brazil:  Agricultural Research I Project, Report No. 103la-BR, 1976.



- 40 -
VI. DEMAND AND MARKET PROSPECTS
Introduction
6.01      In a project of this nature where the goal is to increase the
general productivity and economic efficiency of farming operations, consis-
tent with Government planning and agricultural policy initiatives, the
project is as likely to be influenced as much by national policy directives
as by the more direct effects of the market place, be it local or inter-
national in scope.
Influence of Policy Guidelines
6.02      Project goals would be in direct response to Government agri-
cultural development policy guidelines which are based on macro-economic
considerations of (a) providing sufficient basic food items, at reason-
able prices for a population of approximately 107.0 million, which is
increasing at an annual rate of 2.9% and (b) maintaining, or even rein-
forcing its predominant position as an exporter of agricultural produce on
the world market. Currently this has been noted to contribute about 60% of
the agricultural GNP and to be increasing at a significant rate each year.
To maintain an adequate basic food supply for the nation, reduce costly imports,
such as wheat, and to increase its share as a supplier of raw food and fish
products in overseas markets, the Government must rely heavily on the national
agricultural research and extension systems to assist farmers in reaching the
annual goal of approximately a 7% increase in the GNP of the agricultural
sector.
Influence on Crop Production
6.03      Since the national extension system is designed to provide
programs leading to farm-level production improvements over a very wide
range of crops (currently in excess of 38 under specific programs) its
influence on any one crop is not large although, in the aggregate, the
effect on the overall rural economy can be shown to be very significant.
The production goals set for both the agricultural research and extension
services are well within the economic guidelines which Government has traced
for the role which agriculture will play in the current (1975-79) and near
future (1980-1984) planning periods. It seems unlikely, however, that any one
crop will greatly exceed the production goals set since government policy is
sensitive to both internal consumption and export demand trends and can
readjust annual production targets accordingly. Indeed it has been pointed
out (para. 1.11) that official policy has a strong regulatory influence on
both agricultural production and marketing. Many of these regulations are
implemented through directives to EMBRATER.
Influence on Marketing
6.04      Many of the same principles, outlined in paragraph 6.03 above, apply
here, in the area of regulatory prices, storage and marketing schemes for basic
domestic food crops, e.g. beans, rice and export crops such as coffee, soy-
beans, sugar. Here also, the extension system (SIBRATER) is one of the main
agencies used to apply such regulations which frequently remove such commodi-
ties both from free internal markets, at the state level, and in the world
market for products such as coffee and sugar.



- 41 -
6.05      In general the project must be viewed as one providing a much needed
stimulus to agricultural production, with specific small farmer emphasis but
the influence of which, on demand and supply factors, is very much governed
a priori, at the Government economic planning level, by policy measures
issued through the Ministry of Agriculture. Assuming that such policies will
continue, the improved technical capability of the national extension system
should tend to mitigate in favor of market stability in the agricultural
sector.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Beneficiaries and Target Population Groups
Beneficiaries
7.01      The -direct beneficiaries of the project would be the additional
735,000 farmers receiving extension services for the first time. All farmers,
and farm labor, represented by the total of 1.3 million properties, which
would receive improved agricultural extension service under the project, would
also benefit to the extent that target goals are substantially achieved. In-
direct benefits would also occur due to the improved services provided by the
extension system, in the area of living standards and general welfare through
the programs which are required for development of the rural areas and through
which many direct social benefits accrue to the rural population in general.
The extension system (SIBRATER) acts as an important catalyst in the areas of
education, health nutrition and home economics in such areas of new development.
Target Population Groups
7.02      Although agricultural extension services must assist all levels of
production, there is opportunity for target population emphasis, particularly
programs emphasizing the small farmer. This is possible because the larger
farmer can often avail himself of new technology either direct from the ex-
periment station or through visits to regional headquarters units of EMBRATER.
For this reason, on a cost input basis, the proposed project would select
programs designed to assist small farmers in an approximate ratio of two to
one in favor of the latter, i.e., 66% of program and investment emphasis
would be targeted towards the small farmer group.
B. Cost Recovery
7.03      The most important sources of returns under the project to the state
and federal governments are respectively the state value added tax (ICM), and
the federal tax for assistance to rural workers (FUNRURAL). It is difficult to
estimate the extent to which project costs would be recovered because exemptions
from the ICM are given at different times as incentives to certain groups of pro-
ducers (i.e., for certain crops or in certain regions), and state receipts from



- 42 -
the ICM vary accordingly. Assuming recovery of 50% of the ICM tax and 100% of
the FUNRURAL tax attributable to incremental production from the project, the
approximate average annual tax yield would be about US$27.0 million at the
state level and about US$9.0 million at the federal level.
C. Economic Analysis
7.04      The design and scope of the project, the selection and relative size
of project components and the organizational arrangements for project imple-
mentation are based on current experience in the implementation of a similar
project to strengthen the agricultural research service in Brazil. However,
even while assuming a rational degree of successful project i4mplementation,
the method of estimating a level of economic benefits to this -yp-e of
(institutional strengthening) project still involves a large degree of
assumption and imputation since many additional inputs are required before
the full productive potential of new agricultural technology can be realized.
7.05      In calculating an estimated economic rate of return for the project
two basic assumptions have been made. These are (a) that the acceptance rate
of new technology by farmers would be slow, reaching no more than 15% in year
three of the project and not increasing above 50% of the target population by
year 12, or full project development; the figures, although admittedly
conservative, have some basis of comparison from a closely monitored experiment
in Mexico; 1/ and (b) it was assumed that increased production would follow the
(existing) normal curve up to project year two after which a 3% increase in
annual yields due to new technology would occur in the agricultural production
curve. Border prices, calculated from November 1977 data, were used for all
crops except for those commodities produced mainly for home consumption where
constant farm gate prices were used. The cost stream used included 52.7%
of all project incremental costs which is based upon the relative value of
field crops in the project area and upon which this analysis is based. The
life of the project was assumed to be 12 years with no residual value attri-
buted after that period.
7.06      Based on these assumptions the internal economic rate of return was
found to be in the range of 11 to 18% which reflects annual incremental crop
yields, attributable to extension, in the range of from 2.5 to 3%. An internal
economic rate of return of about 14% is considered most likely and this compares
favorably with the estimated opportunity cost of capital of about 11%. See
also Annex 2 for details of cost and benefit stream calculations.
D. Social Benefits
7.07      In the past decade the emphasis in official government policy towards
agriculture has been aimed primarily at achieving agricultural production
through a rapid expansion of the area being cultivated. For the past few
years, however, there has been a growing awareness, and official emphasis, on
problems of a social nature in rural areas and particularly the need to raise
1/   The Puebla Project, Seven Years of Experience:  1967-73.  CIMMYT, Mexico.



- 43 -
che income of the small farmer and the rural poor who work in agriculture but
have limited land resources. Agricultural price policies, and subsidized farm
inputs, tend to benefit greater numbers of the medium and large farmers, and
proportionately, the services of the extension agents, in implementing such
policies, have favored the latter groups. Several programs, under the proposed
project, are designed to alter this bias more in favor of the small farmer
through demonstration field plots, simple farming systems demonstrations and
formation of cooperatives which would focus on better farm management tech-
niques, the use of low cost inputs and on rural health and welfare services
designed to improve the standard of living for the rural poor.
E. Project Risks
7.08      The quantifiable economic and social benefits are highly dependent
upon a series of assumptions concerning other essential inputs related to
production (para 7.04). The administration of EMBRATER, however, will have
no control over many of these factors which are governed by national agri-
cultural policies. Through the coordinating council (COMPATER), however, it
can make known when the constraints to rational production at the field level
are likely to occur.
7.09      Apart from the above the most obvious risks which project implemen-
tation would face are as follows:
(a) the administration of EMBRATER, still a comparatively new
organization, faces a formidable task of strengthening its
existing leadership, training new and existing staff and
dealing with new programs within a relatively short period.
It is expected that during the first two years of project
life intensive supervision would be required both on the part
of EMBRATER and EMATER administrations.
(b) the degree to which the main function of the extension worker
i.e., communication of new ideas, depends upon the educational
level and receptivity of his audience to accept these ideas.
The group method approach, which must be recommended to obtain
greater coverage, can exacerbate such difficulties.
(c) extension is dependent upon agricultural research to provide
the bulk of new agro-technology to be passed on to the
farmer. Active cooperation between both groups is essential.
Currently, the risk in this particular area would appear to
be minimal as good cooperation has been established in most
states.
(d) Price fluctuations on international markets and government
pricing policies do not always favor the producer as wider
social benefits are sought for other segments of the economy.
The degree to which the Ministry of Agriculture can influence
Government policies in this sphere will have a direct effect
on the returns to agriculture as a whole.



- 44 -
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurance were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)  The Federal Government would provide, in a timely manner, the funds
necessary for EMBRATER to execute the project and also ensure that
the contractual arrangements between EMBRATER and its associates in-
clude a clause whereby the associate (EMATER or ASTER) gives an annual
assurance to EMBRATER to provide the necessary funding to execute its
share of the project based on annual budgets to be approved by EMBRATER,
no later than October, for execution during the following EMBRATER fiscal
year (para 3.12);
(b)  EMBRATER would:
(i)  agree to engage the services of a competent agency or agencies
to administer that portion of the technical assistance compo-
nent which requires (a) the employment of suitably qualified
expatriate consultants under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, and (b) the making of arrangements for fellowship
study programs at universities outside Brazil (para 3.15);
(ii) agree to maintain separate accounts to indicate all expendi-
tures made under the project and undertake that such accounts
be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to Bank,
in accordance with sound auditing principles, consistently
applied. Such audited accounts would be submitted promptly to
the Bank but no later than four months after the closing of
accounts for the previous year (para 3.18);
(iii) provide the Bank every six months and in a timely manner a
comprehensive account of progress in project execution, based
on the reports of EMBRATER's existing monitoring unit for
operation of the extension system (para 4.03);
(iv) agree to prepare and submit to the Bank no later than six
months after project completion a project completion report
as a summation of the monitoring and evaluation activity for
the project (para 4.31);
(v)  to ensure that the civil works program is adequately super-
vised and that implementation is commenced at an early stage
in the project cycle EMBRATER would: (a) engage the services
of consultants to work with EMBRATER's Technical Support Unit
(TSU) in the review of site development plans, detailed con-
struction plans and review of contract bids for the civil
works component; (b) prior to August 1, 1978, present the site
plans for construction projects to be carried out during the
remainder of calendar 1978 and (c) by November 30 of each year,



- 45 -
the site development plans for the civil works construction
program under the project to be carried out during the following
year; such site plans would include those for Training Centers
in preselected states plus sites for state EMATER headquarters
offices and buildings required under the 'Artisan' Fishery
Colonies program; and (d) in the case of civil works involving
the renovation of, or addition to, existing buildings EMBRATER
would ensure that the EMATER or ASTER involved would seek through
EMBRATER, the approval of the Bank for such building plans be-
fore inviting bids on the proposed construction contracts (4.33);
(vi) furnish to the Bank for review and comment (a) by June 30 of
each year, appropriate guidelines regarding incremental staffing
requirements priority programs, regions and target groups for use
by the EMATERs/ASTERs in connection with the preparation of their
annual operational budgets; and (b) by November 30 of each year,
the proposed programs (PROATERs) and related budgets of the
EMATERs/ASTERs for the following year (4.34);
(vii) by June 30, 1980, or such later date as may be mutually agreed to
by EMBRATER and the Bank, EMBRATER would review with the Bank
progress made under the project and the extent to which project
objectives are being achieved and introduce such changes in
project content or mode of implementation as the Bank shall
reasonably request in the light of such review (para 4.34).
8.02      Conditions of disbursement would be that:
(i) contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank had been entered
into between EMBRATER and its associates under which each EMATER/
ASTER would agree, inter alia, to submit to EMBRATER for approval
by October 31 of each year its annual budget for the following
year, which budgets would include adequate allocations from the
state to cover expenditures required for the project and not
covered from other sources, conclusion of such arrangements
being a condition of disbursement in respect of expenditures by
the EMATER/ASTER concerned (para 3.12), and
(ii) in the case of civil works contracts that (a) EMBRATER had furn-
ished evidence satisfactory to the Bank that it, or the EMATER/ASTER
concerned, has legal title or other adequate rights to the land on
which it is proposed to construct project facilities; and (b) con-
sultants had been retained and would be available for supervision
of the implementation of the civil works component during the
period of project execution (para 4.33).
Recommendation
8.03      With the above assurances the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a loan to the Federative Government of Brazil for the equiva-
lent of US$100 million. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including three
years of grace, with interest at the rate prevailing at the time of distribution
of the documents to the executive directors.
May 3, 1978



ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        Introduction.  In order to insure that project goals and objectives
are being met, throughout project life, an effective system of project
monitoring and evaluation to verify such measurable project objectives is
essential. The responsible coordinating federal agency for the project
(EMBRATER) and the state executing agencies for rural extension (EMATERS) are
fortunate in that, administratively, both include monitoring and evaluation
units which are responsible to the department of planning in each case.
However, to insure that the monitoring and evaluation process is an effective
management tool for both the federal and state institutions, there is still
much to be done to unify the methodology, criteria and analysis procedures at
the state and federal level. The need for greater integration in this sphere
has already been discussed with EMBRATER officials and the details would be
agreed upon and finalized during negotiations.
2.        Data Collection.  The first essential step would be to unify and
standardize the data collection system. The simple questions of what, why,
how and for whom current data are essential are still to be answered before
data collection operations can be adequately coordinated at all levels. Since
current data systems are a program being provided with specific inupts and
emphasis within the proposed project, it seems fairly certain that such goals
can be achieved at an early stage.
3.        Internal Reporting.  The data generating system within the EMATERS
must provide the necessary reporting mechanism for both state and federal
administrations. This process corresponds to the so-called internal
reporting procedure. This must be supplemented by a set of key data
essential for specific monitoring and project evaluation functions based on
carefully selected and pre-determined indicators. It is in this area of
external monitoring and evaluation where the services (6 manyears) of adminis-
tration management consultants, specialized in this field, would be engaged
under the project. The terms of reference for such consultants would be the
basis for the methodology selected to provide the information desired. As
a first criteria the current reporting system would be strengthened and unified
to facilitate the accurate and rapid flow of desired management information.
Accounting procedures are already established to record expenditures of the
financial resources to be provided under the project. The supervision of
field staff does not reflect the same unified appraoch towards the recording of
physical goals to be achieved under the current system. Indeed with so many
interlocking operational programs, and where field staff are responsible for
aspects of several of these programs in their area, it is here that adequate
management procedures must be perfected to supply adequate supervision without
having an adverse affect on the actual efficiency and morale of regional and
field level staff.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        External Reporting.  Although the accuracy of data available at the
federal level depends heavily on inputs from the state units, the capability
and corresponding facilities of the federal coordinating unit (EMBRATER) are
much greater and are not expected to present logistical problems. All programs
have an administrator (manager) at the federal level and they are currently
well informed as to the progress of programs under their responsibility. The
selection of meaningful key indicators and optimum sample size are matters
still not well defined and here also the technical (consultancy) services to
be provided under project financing can play a meaningful role. EMBRATER
headquarters unit (Brasilia) would be responsible for supply data to other
interested Federal Agencies, or institutions abroad, as the case may be.
5.        Surveys and Ad Hoc Studies.  Occasionally, such as in the case of
rural development programs where social impact on the target population is of
specific interest, it may be preferable to contract specific studies to an
appropriate university or other institute of advanced studies in the area to
provide the necessary manpower inputs. This also applies to direct studies of
alternative extension methodology and here again consultancy services (10 man-
years) would be provided for this purpose. Such studies might include:
1.   Methods for effective group contacts of farmers by extension
workers;
2.   Effective use of audiovisual aids;
3.   The relative quality of training curricula both for
extensionists and farmers;
4.   Village case studies to measure the impact of extension
services on social and economic welfare of the family
group;
5.   Review of results achieved by specific programs oriented
towards predetermined target groups.
6.        Design and Planning for Efficient Monitoring and Evaluation.  This
would be the responsibility of the monitoring and evaluation unit, working
under the leadership of the Planning Department. The latter would plan the
necessary coordination of the state units. Initial inputs, and timely feedback
from farmers, producers and their families would be primarily the function
of field extensionists and social workers who would be contacted to provide
such information through the established Current Data system. Staff members
of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit at the state level would be responsible
for this task.
7.        Reporting Procedures.  Under the proposed project to be partially
funded by a Bank loan, assurances would be received at negotiations that
progress reports, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, would be submitted
at six-month intervals. Such reports would deal with progress under the
proposed "Agricultural Extension I Project" but would be compiled from data



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
monitoring processes being implemented to cover the entire SIBRATER system.
Under accounting procedures it-would be necessary to establish a system where
project costs can be discriminated from general costs of the national system.
In the case of key indicators to monitor progress towards specific project
goals it would be the responsibility of the consultants, being provided under
the project, to elaborate suitable reporting procedures which would be of
common interest to EMATER and EMBRATER managements, as well as being of
specific interest to the Bank. It is essential that the monitoring system
adopted provide overall control of the SIBRATER system and is not merely
project specific. In addition, the monitoring and evaluation unit would
prepare, within six months of project completion, the necessary "Project
Completion Report" as requested by Bank under the conditions of the loan.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BENEFITS
A. General
1.        The purpose of agricultural extension is to disseminate new tech-
niques and information on improved agronomic practices to the farmers. As
improved extension services generally tend, ceteris paribus, to increase
output, ideally the expanded transfer of improved farming practices should
both increase the net income of the farmer as well as provide a larger stock
of lower cost foods to the consuming public. To the extent that the technology
transfer is directed, especially toward lower income farmers, it should also
have a positive effect in improving distribution of income. While these types
of benefits are difficult to quantify, an attempt was made in this project to
estimate only the increased production which might be attributed mainly to the
"improved technology" impact of the extension project and, hence, the return
to the planned investment.
2.        It is realized that any attempt to attribute specific benefits to
an extension project cannot be precise, since cumulative increases in produc-
tivity would also require, apart from adequate ecological and climatic condi-
tions and acceptance by farmers, a number of complementary investments in
other fields such as research, credit, physical and social infrastructure and
the like. As a basis for the calculations, it was decided to use the growth
in field crops 1/ the productivity of which can be attributed only to extension
as a proxy, or indirect measure of the benefits of extension services. These
yearly increases in productivity, attributable to improved extension services,
would be incremental to the present average yearly increment in GNP of the
Brazilian agricultural sector which is 7% (4% in the area under cultivation
and 3% from increase in productivity). The major variables and assumptions
determining benefits which may accrue from an agricultural extension service
are given in the following.
B. Measurement of Project Benefits
3.        Technology Acceptance by Farmers:  Although expected benefits to
improved agricultural extension activities rely heavily on the degree of
acceptance of the new agrotechnologies by the farmer, it is in fact very
difficult to estimate such acceptance rates with any degree of reliability.
1/   Including only field crops, the 1976 value of which accounted for 52.7%
of all agricultural output.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
It has been noted that in the case of India 1/ estimated acceptance rates were
much higher than those for a well documented experiment in the Puebla region
of Mexico. 2/ Since the conditions prevailing in Mexico appear more comparable
to general experience in this hemisphere, for both agricultural research and
extension activities, it is expected that the more conservative rates of accep-
tance used in the present analysis could be easily reached, given the higher
literacy level and degree of technical sophistication in much of the project
area. In this case, it has been conservatively assumed that only 50% of the
target population of 1,300,000 farmers will adopt new agrotechnologies by year
12 of the project, and hence new technologies would be implemented in approx-
imately 50% of the area encompassed by the project.
4.        The acceptance of the producers will be higher during the first years
of the project, and due to diminishing returns lower thereafter, if we assume
the present levels of research technology and extension services currently
visualized. From project year 12 and onwards, no new acceptances are expected
to take place. Estimated acceptance would accrue as follows:
Percentages of Target Population
Adopting New Agrotechnologies /1
Project                   Yearly             Cumulative
Year                   Percentage           Percentage
I                         0                    0
2                        10                    10
3                         5                    15
4                         5                   20
5                         5                   25
6                         5                   30
7                         5                   35
8                         5                   40
9                         3                   43
10                         3                   46
11                         3                   49
12                         1                   50
13 .and onwards            0                   50
/1   These percentages were also used for computing areas
implementing new agrotechnologies (see Tables 5.1
and 5.2).
5.        Increased Production; It has been assumed that the extension proj-
ect will be the cause of a shift in the production curve of those farmers
accepting new technology. Due to the gradual impact of agricultural extension
1/   India:  Appraisal of the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research
Project, Report No. 1753-IN, October 1977.
2/   The Puebla Project, Seven Years of Experience;  1976-73, CIMMYT, Mexico.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
services, one year lag has been assumed between the beginning of the project
and its significant effects, on agricultural production. Commencing in
project year two, a shift in the aggregated agricultural production curve
should occur; this shift will correspond to a shift in the production func-
tions, i.e., in the productivity of all crops grown by project participants.
The rate of incremental productivity adopted is relatively low and is of the
magnitude of a yearly 3% increase in productivity for these farms where new
technology has been adopted.
6.        Analysis Assumptions;  In order to measure the economic value of
the assumed changes in productivity at border prices, the present value of
production for project participants as well as the incremental value of produc-
tion for future project participants accepting new technologies (see para 4)
were computed. The following explicit assumptions were made in order to
measure the value of incremental production attributable to the project:
-    Extension services benefit evenly all activities carried out by
project participants accepting new agrotechnologies.
-    The existing farm types, area per farm and cropping pattern
for low income farmers and other farmers will remain unchanged
during project life.
-    Project target population of 1,300,000 farmers will be composed
of 55% 1/ (715,000) low income farmers and 45% (585,000) other
farmers.
-    The target group of farmers selected collectively provides
adequate representation for all crops that are grown in Brazil.
-    The average present annual rate of inrease in agricultural
production (7%) is distributed evenly between the project
participants (1.3 million farmers) and the remainder of farm
holdings, i.e., 3.6 million for the current total of 4.9 million
farm holdings in Brazil.
-    The expected effects (3% increase in agricultural production)
attributable to the improved extension services are distributed
evenly among all the crops grown by the project participants.
As field crops represent 52.7% 2/ of the value of agricultural
production, a conservative assumption would be that 52.7% of
project costs could be justified by yield increases for field
crops grown by project participants and accepting new agro-
technologies.
1/   Presently, the ratio is 20% (106,240) low income farmers and 80% (424,330)
other farmers.
2/   Overall agricultural production value in 1976, Cr$284,706 million of
which about Cr$151,500 million for field crops (52.7%).



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Incremental project foreign exchange costs, although relatively
low, were adjusted upward by 30% to reflect taxes, tariffs and
subsidies.
The life of the project was assumed to be of 12 years and no
residual value is attributed after that period. No scrap value
was placed on buildings and equipment.
Border prices were used for most commodities.  For some products
such as manioc and beans, which are produced mainly for local
consumption, constant farmgate prices were used. This was done
although it is recognized that some of these crops are likely
to have price changes in the future but such changes are presently
unknown, and difficult to forecast.
C. Project Risks
7.        As it is expected that the benefits to be achieved will gradually
extend nationwide, as there are so many uncertainties involved in such a
project, and since the extension service must deal with a very wide range of
client farmers with differing levels of expertise and education, the extension
service will have to be highly dynamic and adapt itself effectively to changing
situations in order to be able to attain the expected benefits. EMBRATER,
which is a relatively new institution, will have to strengthen its administra-
tive capacity to implement the project. Another type of risk lies in the fact
that agriculture in Brazil is mainly rainfed; there is currently a relatively
high degree of risk concerning achievement of the expected yield increases due
to climatic variation. However, based on existing data concerning agricultural
know-how in Brazil, it is clear that enough expertise exists to lessen the
effects of these variables.
D. Project Benefits
8.        Social Benefits:  The development and upgrading of the agricultural
extension service which, in Brazil, also supports programs related to social
welfare and health, adult education, nutrition and home economics, would also
have a considerable social impact that is quite impossible to measure and
hence was not taken into consideration in the present analysis.
9.        Economic Benefits:  The economic analysis for the proposed project
was carried out based on 52.7% of project costs and benefits (see para 6).
An internal rate of return was calculated for project components related to
the incremental agricultural production of project participants and the rate
of their acceptance of new agrotechnologies. The benefit stream was calcu-
lated to include the incremental crop production by project participants and
the phased increases of productivity achieved by participating farmers. The



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
cost stream included all project incremental costs required to achieve the
production increases. Tables 5.3 and 5.4 provide details of the costs of the
project and the expected benefits.
10.       The internal rate of return for the project components (assuming a
12-year discount period, equivalent to the period within which acceptance
of new agrotechnologies still occur) was estimated to be in the range of 18%.
This compares favorably to the opportunity cost of capital (11%) invested in
Brazil. 1/ The spread in the range given would appear to make ample provision
in order to cover the possible risks and uncertainties which have been noted
above. A sensitivity test shows that an increase of about 2.5% in productivity
will bring the internal rate of return to nearly 11% or the equal of the oppor-
tunity cost of capital invested in Brazil, and a 3.0% increase in productivity
would provide a return of 18%, based on the assumptions as detailed in para 6.
1/   See Memorandum entitled Estimates on Opportunity Cost of Capital for
LAC Countries by Regional Senior Economist, February 8, 1977.



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION I PROJECT
Target Population Basic Data
Area uncer,field crops
Percentage of Acceptance   Number of Farmers receiving              Low Income    Other        Total
Project          of New Agro-technologies   improved extension services                Farmers      Farmers
Year             Yearly    Cunmulative        Low Income   Others      Total         -- -(ha)- - - - (ha)- - - -(ha)- - -
1/   -        1
1                   0           0             106,240      424,330    530,570          743,680      5,227,745  5,9719425
2                  10          10             309,000      478,000    787,000        2,163,000      5,888,960   8,051,960
3                   5          15             512,000       532,000  1,044,000       3,584,000      6,554,240  10,138,240
2/             1
4                   5          20             715,000       585,000  1,300,000       5,005,000      7,207,200  12,212,200
5                   5          25             715,000       585,000  1,300,000       5,005,000      7,207,200  12,212,200
6                   5          30             715,000      585,000  1,300,000        5,005,009      7,207,200  12,212,200
7                   5          35             715,000       585,000  1,300,000       5,005,000      7,207,200  12,212,200
8                   5          40             715,000       585,000  1,300,000       5,005,000      7,207,200  12,212,200
9                   3          43             7151000       585,000  1,300,000       5,005,000      7,207,200  12,212,000
10                   3          46             715,000       585,000  1,300,000       5,005,000      7,207,200  12,212,000
11                   3          49             715,000       585,000  1,300,000       5,005,000      7,2071200  12,212,000
12                   1          50             715,000       585,000  1,i00,000       5,005,000      7,207,200  12Z212,000    a  5
/ Present situation.
55% of target population by project year 4.
;V 45% of target population..



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION I PROJECT
Incremental Production Attributable to Project
Yearly Production Value          Ineremental Value of
Yearly Area Adopting New            Cumulative Area Adopting New          -   - of Areas.            *2/ Product4on Attributable
Agrotechnologies 1/                Agrotechnologies               AdoPtinR New AeroQtMlhnAn .ie4 - To Project 3L
Low Income    Other         Total   Low Income    Other         Total    Low Income  Other    Total
Farmers     Farmers                 Farmers      Farmers                 Farnmers    Farmers
--------------(ha)-         ---- ---  -------------- (ha)------------    ------------------------(US$000)-----------------------
216,300       588,900-    805,200    216,300    588,900        805,200      74,299   189,331   263,630         7,909.0
179,200      327,710      506,910    395,500    916,610   1,312,110         65,856   112,732   178,588        13,504.0
250,250       360,360      610,610    645,750  1,276,970   1,922,720    105,280   141,946   247,226           21,326.0
250,250       360,360      610,610    896,000  1,637,330   2,533,330    112,638   151,892   264,530           29,901.0
UL
250,250      360,360       610,610  1,146,250  1,997,690   3,143,940    120,520   162,522   283,042           39,290.0
250,250      360,360       610,610  1,396,500  2,358,050   3,754,550    128,954   173,910   302,864           49,554.0
250,250       360,360      610,610  1,646,750  2,718,410   4,365,160    137,988   186,090   324,078            60,763.0
150,150       216,215     366,365  1,796,900- 2,934,625   4,731,525         88,589   119,459   208,048         70,927.0
150,150       216,215      3P6,365  1,947,050  3,150,840   5,097,890        94p790   127,826   222,616         77,434.0
150,150      216,215      366,365  2,097,200  3,367,055   5,464,255    10L1,426   136,778   238,204            37,109.0
50,050       72,070       122,120  2,147,250' 3,439,125   5,586,375        36,176    48,784    84,960         92,271.0
1/ Assuring no changes in present cropping patterns and taking into consideration yearly percentage of acceptance             -
of new agrotechnologies by farmer  participants. For instance, in year two of project 10% of area under project    & 
(8,051,960 ha) of 805,200 ha will impleiment new agrotechnologies.
2/  Taking into consideration present trend of 7% increase in production (see para 2) and border prices for ail               M3
commodities but for those crops grown for local consumption only (see para 6). For instance, in year two of
project, area of low income farmers implementing new-agrotechnologies (216,300 ha) would have a value of pro-
duction of US$74,299 thousand (based on an average value of production of US$343.50/ha). In year three of pro-
ject the average value of production per ha adopting new agrotechnologies would be US$367.50 (343.50 x 1.07).
3/ Assuming a compounded yearly increase of 3% in productivity attributable to project; i.e., when value of pro-
duction of areas implementing new agrotechnologies in year two of project is US$263,630 thousand, the incre-
mental value of production of this same year attributable to project is US$7,909 thousand and the value of pro-
duction of areas implementing new agrotechnologies in year three is US$178,588 thousand; therefore, the incre-
mental value of production attributable to project in year three would be US$13,504 thousand calculated as follows:
(263,630 + 7,909 + 178,588) 3/100 = 13,504.



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Project Base Cos ts
I          II       III          IV      Project    V          VI        VII       VIII       TX         X        XI        XII
Total
I.  Capital Investments
New Civil Works          3,530.8    6,796.9    5,503.0    1,649.3   27,480.0   -           176       516        792         87h       8704       87,       874
Land Purchases              25.9        50.5       41.5        11.7      129.6               -         -         -          -          -         -         -
Vehicles                 4,201.1    5,566.1    5,395.5    3,483.3   18,646.0   1,108   1,134        2,519     3,639       4,916      3,916     3,720     3,534
Office Equipment
and Furnishings         1,801.4    1,452.9    1,278.4    1,278.4    5,811.1       172       172      180       326         454        581       581       581
Printing and Audio-
visual Aids             2,290.7    2,410.3    2,380.1    1,479.4    8,560.5         78      237      485       730         886        886       886       886
Radio Transmission
Equipment                 847.2       694.2      537.5       71.0    2,149.9        5         5       79       144         192        194       194       194
Farm Equipment              -       1,872.5         -           -      1,872.5       3         3      190       286h        374        375       375       375
Fishery Equipment          480.2       636.3      616.7      398.2    2,131.4        50      114      264       323          323       323       323       323
Library Equipment
and Furnishings           311.7       255.6      227.7      227.7    1,022.7       67       118      164       209         209        209       209       209
Miscellaneous Capital
Items                     819,0    1,235.3       950.5      539.4    3,544.2      389       389      389       389         389        389       389       389         1
I.,
Subtotal                14,308.0   20,970.6  16,930.9    9,138.4   61,347.9   1,872    2,348    4,786         6.836       7,897      7,797     7,551     7,365        a,
1T.  Training and Technical
Assistance
Pre- and In-Service
Training                1,257.9    1,153.1    1,310.3    1,520.0    5,241.3   1,444    1,372    1,303        1,238        1,176     1,117     1,061     1,008
Short Courses              206.0      215.8       181.6      236.7       840.1     224       213      202       192          182       173       164       166
Short and Long-Term
Fellowships             1,128.7    1,182.1       994.3    1,296.9    4,602.0   1,231    1,169    1,111       1,055        1,002       952       904       859
Consultants              1,125.0    1,687.5    1,575.0    1,237.5    5,625.0        -         -        -         -          -          -         -          -
Methodology Studies      1,083.6    1,083.6       270.9       270.9    2,709.0      -         -        -          -         -          -         -          -
Subtotal                 4,801.2    5,322.1    4,332.1    4,562.0   19,017.4   2,899    2,756    2,616        2,485        2,360     2,242     2,129     2,023
II1.  Incremental Operating
Costs
Staff Salaries          .ri586.O  27,di3.,   36,91b.0   42,405.o  1.24,723.O   39,771   38,271   36,359    34,541         32,815    31,172    29,673    28,136
Materials and Supplies   2,127.4    2,961.6    3,894.4    4,274.4   13,257 -.    3,823    3,632    3,450      3,278        3,114     2,958     2,810      2,670
Other Operating Costs    2,066.5    3,051.6    3,796.5    4,289.1   13,203.7   4,075    3,871    3,677        3,493        3,318     3,152     2,994      2,844
Subtotal                21,779.9  33,626.4  44,60o.9   WJO,9b5.3  151,783.2  48,184   45,774   43,486    41,312           39,247    37,282    35,417    33,650
IV.  Base Costs             '40,889.1   btbLlY.   65,871.9    64,669.7  231,549.8  52,955   50,876   50,888    50,633         49,504    47,324    45,097    43,038   `|
-It,
,j <



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION I PROJECT
Project Costs and Incremental Value of Production
(US$000)
Incremental       Total                          Incremental
Project      Base        Physical          Sub-    Foreign Exchange  Project         52.7% of Total    Value of
Year        Costs    Contingencies    Total           Cost 1/          Costs        Project Costs 2/ Production 3/
1          40,889.1      1,793.9       42,683.0         1,220.7       43,903.7        23,137.2          0
2          60,119.1      2,800.6       62,919.7        1,779.2        64,698.9        34,096.3       7,909.0
3          65,871.9      2,558.8       68,430.7        1,956.5        70,387.2        37,094.1      13,504.0
4          64,669.7      1,640.1       66,309.8        1,896.7        68,206.5        35,944.8      21,326.0
5          52,955.0        898.6       53,853.6        1,540.5        55,394.1        29,192.7      29,901.0
6          50,876.0        914.8       51,790.8        1,480.7       53,271.5         28,074.1      39,290.0
7          50,888.0      1,057.4       51,945.4        1,485.9        53,431.3        28,158.3      49,554.0
8          50,633.0      1,180.9       51,813.9        1,482.0        53,295.9        28,086.9      60,763.0
9          49,504.0      1,203.8       50,707.8        1,450.8       52,158.6         27,487.6      70,927.0
10          47,324.0      1,184.5       48,508.5        1,387.1        49,895.6        26,295.0      77,434.0
11          45,097.0      1,140.6       46,237.6        1,322.1        47,559.7        25,064.0      87,109.0
12          43,038.0      1,102.3       44,140.3        1,262.3       45,402.6         23,927.1      92,271.0                x
1/  Foreign exchange costs were adjusted upward by 30%
2/  Part of total project costs justified by incremental production related to project.
3/ Assuming a 3% increase in productivity.



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Area, Population and Demographic Density by Geographic Region, 1970
% of Rural    Inhab-
Area                Total Population         Rural Population    Over Total    itants
Region             000 km2        %          000 inhab.                000 inhab.      %    Population    Per km2
North                 3,544        42.0         3,651           3.9       2,001         4.8      54.8         1.0
Northeast             1,542        18.2        28,675         30.3       16,694        40.1      58.2        18.6
Central-West          1,879        22.2         5,168          5.5        2,674         6.5      51.8         2.8
Southeast               919        10.9        40,332         42.7       10,985        26.4      27.2        43.9       X
South                   562         6.7        16,684         17.6        9,249        22.2      55.4        29.7
BRAZIL            8,456        100.0        94,510        100.0       41,603       100.0      44.0        11.2
Source: Fundacao IBGE
July 15, 1977
I- w



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Land Distribution and Land Use and Ownership
A:  Land Distribution ------------------------1970------------------------------------------------------------
Number of      Total            Number of         Area in                Ownership
Farm Size                 Holdings       Area             Holdings          Each group             Classification
in Hectares               (Units)        (ha .000)           %                   %                     (000)                         Percent
0 to   10                 2,519,630        9,083              51.40               3.06            Owner          2,932                 60%
10 to  100                1,934,392       60,069              39.42              20.41            Renter            993                20%
100 to  1000                414,746      108,743               8.44              37.07            Occupier          793                16%
1000 to  10,000              35,425       80,059               0.71              27.21            Administrator   206                   4%
10,000                      1,597       36,190               0.03              12.25                                                              1
Unclassified                 18,000         -                    -                                                                    _ _ _
TOTALS       4,923,790      294,144             100.00%            100.00%                          4,924                100%
B: Land Use (1974) in Thousands of Hectares and % Distribution
Classification                                        Area                             --------------Percent-------------------
Land Area                                                           845,651                                                   100.00
Arable/Permanent Cropping                            36,060                                              4.26
Arable          28,000                                               3.31
P. Cropping      8,060                                               0.95
Permanent Pasture                                   166,900                                             19.76
Forest and Natural TL7oodland                       511,400                                             60.47
Other Areas                                         131,291                                             15.51
Source:  A section:  Anuario Estatistieo do Brasil, 1976
B section: FAO, Production Yearbook, Vol. 29, 1975
November 15, 1977



60 -           ~~~ANNEX 3
- 60 -                  Table 3
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Participation of Agricultural Product in
Gross Domestic Product of Brazil, for the Period 1966-1975
(current prices)
Net Domestic Product                             Participation of
Year       at Factor Cost        Agricultural Product    Agricultural
(Cr$ 000)            (Cr$ 000)            Product in NDP (%)
1966         51,512,754                6,843,898               13.3
1967         70,667,523                9,029,567               12.8
1968         98,248,015               11,539,990               11.7
1969        129,187,678               14,336,314               11.1
1970        167,228,455               17,126,636               10.2
1971        224,423,011               23,973,354               10.7
1972        293,365,851               30,560,091               10.4
1973        402,444,030              44,270,554                11.0
1974        586,755,720              65,657,439                11.2
1975        833,985,182               87,820,907               10.5
Source: Fundacao Getulio Vargas, Conjuntura Economica, July 1977.
December 1977



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Area, Yield and Total Annual Production
For Basic Food and Export Crops
(Selected Years 1961-75)
1961-65       1973       1974       1975
BANANAS
Area 1/                218         316        278        280
Yield .2/           18,754      22,547    25,077    25,287
Production.l/       4,087        7,128      6,974      7,087
BEANS
Area                 2,936       3,815      4,163      4,046
Yield                  656         584        538        563
Production           1,927       2,229      2,238      2,280
CACAO
Area                   476         416        509        600
Yield                  317         471        393        480
Production             151         196        200        288
CASSAVA
Area                 1,588       2,104      1,989      2,147
Yield               13,789      12,623    12,424    12,669
Production         21,900       28,559    24,715    27,207
COFFEE
Area                 4,068       2,080      2,450      2,100
Yield                  462         420        673        619
Production           1,881         872      1,650      1,300
CORN
Area                 7,814       9,908    11,002    10,506
Yield                1,294       1,424      1,571      1,570
Production        100,112       14,109    17,284    16,491
COTTON 4/
Area
Yield
Production             482         640        564        515
RICE
Area                 3,809       4,795      4,378      5,249
Yield                1,607       1,495      1,481      1,462
ProductiDn          6,123        7,167      6,483      7,674
SOYBEANS
Area                   337       3,615     5,143      5,747
Yield                1,049       1,386      1,531      1,775
Production             345      5,012      7,876    10,200
SUGARCANE
Area                 1,513       1,959      1,967      2,069
Yield              43,332      46,904    49,024    43,463
Production         65,577      91,877    96,412    89,935
I/in thousands of hectares
2/in kg/ha
I/in thousands of metric tons
4/lint cotton
Source: FAO: Production Year Book Vol. 29, 1975
August, 1977



- 62 -              ~~~ANNEX 3
- 62 -                      Table 5
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Performance of Ten Maior ExDort CroDs
(1973-76):
Crop                    1973               1974               1975            1976  1/
Coffee
Amount  2/            1,110                731                804             690
Value   3/        1,343,841          1,002,002            931,966       1,858,791
Sugarcane
Amount                2,798              2,250              1,731           1,022
Value               552,711          1,258,658          1,099,773         278,373
Soybeans
Amount                3,457              4,757              6,736           8,212
Value               949,349            889,975          1,303,364      1,705,534
Cacao
Amount                  107                159                199             197
Value               136,178            309,993            280,578         279,449
Maize
.Amount                  41              1,103              1,148           1,346
Value                 3,146            138,348            150,842         161,464
Castor Bean (oil)
Amount                  132                156                 91             132
Value               122,807            128,425             51,632          69,803
Sisal
Amount                  160                139                 52              99
Value                59,445            114,130             30,054          32,536
Tobacco
Amount                   91                 64                 98              97
Value                58,458             98,981            141,796         155,208
Cotton 4/
Amount                  337                128                170              53
Value               315,717            216,781            215,339         117,932
Orange Juice
Amount                  121                108                181             182
Value                63,622             57,170             82,213          87,325
I/ January-November 1976 data only
2/ In thousands of metric tons
3/ US$ equivalent (thousands)
41 Includes cotton yarn and cotton fabrics
Source: CACEX
October 15,1977



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Distribution of Agricultural Properties by Size
I. SIZE DISTRIBUTION BY REGION
RANGE                                           REGIONS
Hectares                                      PERCENT-         .            > _       l
NORTH    NORTHEAST    CENTRAL-WEST    SOUTHEAST    SOUTH    TOTAL
0 to 10             0.86      34.99           1.83            22.84      39.48   100.00
10 to 100           2.35      26.98           4.93            23.87      41.87   100.00
100 to 1,000        4.44      35.37          17.55            28.79      13.85   100.00
1,000 to 10,000   12.50       22.41          39.87            16.33       8.89   100.00
10,000           19.73     12.26          58.73              6.89       2.39   100.00
unclassified        3.74      33.04           9.27            21.53      32.42   100.00
II: SIZE DISTRIBUTION WITHIN EACH REGION
RANGE                                           REGIONS
Hectares                                      PERCENT  _
NORTH    NORTHEAST    CENTRAL-WEST    SOUTHEAST  I SOUTH
0 to 10             9.54      31.15           7.68            25.14      29.20
10 to 100          53.14      49.18          41.26            54.96      63.29
100 to 1,000       24.82      15.85          37.09            15.83       5.28
1,000 to 10,000    8.12        1.17           9.79             1.99       0.05
10,000            0.67      0.05            0.76              *          *
unclassified        3.71       2.60           3.42             2.08       2.18
TOTAL             100.00    100.00          100.00           100.00    100.00
* Less than 0.05%
Source: Estatisticas Cadastrais, Volume I, INCRA, Brasilia. 1974
February 15, 1978



- 64 -                      A0NEX 3
Table 7
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Area Allocated to Crops. Livestock and Extractive Activities. 1972
Livestock Area    Extractive
Region                     Crop  Area                                Permanent Temporary  Activities
Total {Horticultural  Perennials  Annual  Total    Pastures  Pastures    Forestry
_________________-      ------  1,000 Hectares --  --------------------
Brazil       37,121        361           9,391      27,368  155,437  111,129    44,307    24,196
North            877         13             403        461    3,750    2,944         805      8,842
Northeast    10,940          42          4,525       6,372   29,835   18,262    11,573        6,097
Southeast      9,869       143           2,370       7,355   44,170   36,032       8,137      3,012
South         12,516       133           1,750      10,633   21,762   21,042         720      3,186
Central-West   2,916         28             342       2,546   55,918   32,846    23,071       3,058
Source: INCRA, Estatisticas Cadastrais-Vol. Ij Brasilia 1974.
December 1977



- 65 -                       ANNEX 3
Table 8
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Regional Distribution of Extension Units
and Staff in the Agricultural Extension System, 1976
CENTRAL-    SOUTH                     (Total)
NORTH     NORTHEAST         WEST       EAST          SOUTH      SIBRATER
Operational Units
EMATERS                           6             9            2            3            3           23
Regional Offices                 13           76            19           22           37          167
Local Units                     156          643           161          394          435        1,789
Technicians:
In Local Units                  548        2,352          596         1,757        1,331        6,584
In Regional Offices              18          145            15           29           58          265
In Central Offices              159          385            92           88          144          868
Total N9 of Technicians         725        2,882          703        1,874         1,533        7,717
N9 of higher-level              302        1,532           440        1,053          934        4,261
N9 of middle-level              423        1,350           263          821          599        3,456
Administrative Staff               792        2,119          553        1,012        1,019        5,495
Municipalities Covered          114        1,089           296          800          517        2,816
Producers Assisted           28,397       83,425       36,003      105,031      206,984      459,840
Cooperatives Assisted            10           48            31           40           97          226
Rural Credit
N9 of Contracts               5,573       16,356        5,386       25,357       19,024        71,696
Current Value:Cr$ 1.000   532,135   2,266,786   2,048,848   3,046,619   1,178,702   9,073,090
Social Assistance
1/
Families Assisted             6,535       11,267        8,060       13,490       99,653      139,005
Health Posts                       2         211            19          313           25          570
N9  of 4-S Clubs                 82          428          124          964          529        2,127
N9 of 4-S Club Members        1,685        9,396        3,267       27,547       16,245       58,140
Source:  EMBRATER/CPLAN/NAV, April 1977
August 1977



ANNEX 3
- 66 -                       Table 9
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Rural Population and Number of Farmers being Assisted by
the Agricultural Extension Services by States and Regions
Farmers   Rural    Numbers
Assisted  Popula-  Reached by
Large    Small        Total          by       tion      ATER Social
Regions/States            Farms I' Farms         Farms        ATERS      (0oo0     Assistants
NORTH                      21,909      50,687       72,596    30,907    2,306    19,315
Rond8nia                      774        2,584       3,358      6,403        69      6,040
Acre                          917       3,161        4,078      2,762       182      1,618
Amazonas                    5,899       17,430       23,329     4,982       608      3,180
Roraima                       953          202       1,155      1,890        29        234
Para                       12,878      27,018       39,896    13,204    1,350        7,060
Amapa                         488          292          780     1,666        68      1,183
NORTHEAST                204,885      704,063      988,948   170,173   18,242    55,680
Maranhao                   24,284       40,152      64,436    16,389    2,442        2,226
Piaui                      20,385       76,832      97,217    11,219    1,340        3,140
Ceara                     35,422      121,295      156,717    65,122    3,052        9,321
Rio Grande Do Norte        12,685      49,994       62,679    12,883        971    13,673
Paraiba                    15,146      94,859      110,005    14,839    1,518        2,380
Pernambuco                 21,648     119,358      141,006    11,409    2,480        1,820
Alagoas                     5,879      39,320       45,199      2,470    1,060       1,000
Sergipe                    5,268       40,932       46,200      9,251       510      6,672
Bahia                     64,168      211,321      275,489    26,591    4,869    15,448
SOUTHEAST                329,681      578,963      908,644   169,681    9,254    86,597
Minas Gerais              157,210     350,944      508,154   109,661    5,066    79,477
Rio de Janeiro            21,553       32,996       54,549    31,745        916      5,000
Espirito Santo            22,680       40,811       63,491    28,275        778      2,120
Sao Paulo                128,238      154,212      282,450                2,494          -
SOUTH                    281,790      916,841   1,198,631   149,537   10,702    88,916
Parana                   135,979      297,682      433,661    55,064    5,630    47,676
Santa Catarina            41,649      208,328      249,977    69,552    1,832    35,000
Rio Grande do Sul        104,162      410,831      514,993    24,921    3,240        6,240
CENTRAL-WEST             111,907       96,447      208,354    44,923    3,247        2,280
Mato Grosso                34,907       37,795       72,702     8,036    1,224       1,380
Goias and DF               77,000      58,652      135,652    36,887    2,023          900
BRAZIL                    950,172   2,437,001   3,387,173   565,221   43,751   252,788
1/ Over 50 ha
Source: EMBRATER PRONATER 77, Table III
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 3
- 67 -                       Table 10
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Number, Level and Distribution
of Technical Staff /
Reg.&                       N9 of    N9 of
Emater/   Higher   Middle   Field   State           TOTAL          Agric.  Farmers
Region            Asters    Level    Level    Total   Total   Region   Emater   Estab.  Assisted
NORTH                          181       443       624     226      850       -       261,145  30,907
Rondonia                        16       100       116      37                153       7,082   6,403
Acre                            17        37        54       21                75      23,102   2,762
Amazonas                        29        74       103      42                145      82,251   4,982
Roraima                         16        23        39       10                49       1,953   1,890
Para                            92       179       271       95               366    141,442  13,204
Amapa                           11        30        41       21                62       2,315   1,666
NORTHEAST                      872    1,943    2,815        684   3,499             2,206,788 170,173
Maranhao                        66       141       207       77               284    396,761  16,389
Piau;                           71       126       197       60               257    217,886  11,219
Ceara                          236       331       567     101                668    245,432  65,122
Rio Grande do N.                67       286       353       90               443    103,630  12,883
Paraiba                         64       173       237       75               312    169,667  14,839
Pernambuco                      56        83       139       68               207    331,409  11,409
Alagoas                         20        33        53       50               103    105,160   2,470
Sergipe                         77       335       412      63                475      95,276   9,251
Bahia                          215       435       650     100                750    541,566  26,591
SOUTHEAST                      852       848    1,700      328   2,028                597,127 169,681
Minas Gerais                   574       612    1,186       221             1,407    454,025 109,661
EspErito Santo                  86       114       200       59               259      70,712  28,275
Rio de Janeiro                 192       122       314       48               362      72,390  31,745
SOUTH                          687       638    1,325      382   1,707              1,274009  149,537
Parana                         309       222       531      197               728    554,448  55,064
Santa Catarina                 156       259       415      93                508    207,218  69,552
Rio Grande do S.               222       157       379       92               471    512,303  24,921
CENTRAL-WEST                   300       313       613      223     836               253,132  44,923
Mato Grosso                    126       119       245       89               334    106,104   8,036
Goias                          174       194       368      134               502    145,115  36,887
TOTAL:  23 Ematers/          2,892    3,795    7,077   1,064         -      8,920  4,592,201 565,221
Asters
Embrater                        -         -         -        -       -        220
TOTAL FOR BRAZIL             2.892    3.795    7.077   1.064         -      9,140  49 9v2921 565 221
1/
Proposed for 1977
Source: Pronater - 77 Tables XV, XVII, XIX
necember 1977



- 68 -                       ANNEX 3
Table 11
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Incremental Staff Appointments
by Program Emphasis
Project Years
Sub-
A.  EMBRATER                                     1        2       3      4    Total   Total
Headquarters (Brasilia)                                                              100
Administrative and Technical
Support Staff                           30       30       30    -        90
Methodology Studies                           4       4        2    -        10
Ematers and Associates                                                            3,124
Program Administration and
Advisory Staff                          7        7        7    -        21
Incremental Regional and
Field Staff                        521     551      583   620   2,275
Training Centers                              8      37       21    -        66
Documentation Units                         16       16        -    -        32
Current Data                                10        8        8      8      34
Production Systems                          12       12        -    -        24
Field Demonstration Plots                  142       36       23    -       201
Audiovisual Aids Program                   144      113      114    -       371
Pilot Production Cooperatives               12       19       19    -        50
Artisanal Fisheries Colonies                20       20       10    -        50
Rural Cooperatives:
Associate Staff   1/                                                              510
Pilot Production                           110      150      150    -       410
Artisanal Fisheries                         30       30       40    -       100
1,066   1,033   1,007   628   3,734   3,734
Percentage Increment by Year                     28      28       27    17               100%
Percentage Increment over Previous Year           7       6        6      3
Total % Increase over 1977                                                                25%
1/
Staff seconded from state EMATERS for organization and
administration of pilot cooperatives
Source: EMBRATER
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 3
- 69 -                              Table 12
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Incremental Staff Distribution by Category
PROGRAMS                                  STAFF CATEGORY
Technical
Program of Allocation            Field Staff   Technical   Administrative
(SL)  (ML)      Support      and Clerical      Total
1. Field Extensionists
(EMATERs and ASTERs)          150  1,800       24             301           2,275
2.  Training Program               16      50      -                -               66
3.  Library & Documentation        25    -         _                 7              32
4.  Current Data Systems            9    _                          25              34
5. Methodology Trials and
Studies                        -     _                         10               10
6.  Audio Visual Aids              27             200             144              371
7.  Production Systems             24                              _                24
8.  Field Demonstration Plots    71    -          130              -              2nl
9. Crop Production
Cooperative                   124    250       14              72             460
10. Fisheries: Colonies and
Cooperatives                   30     80       -               40             150
Program Administration
and Advisory Staff
EMATER State Headquarters                                           21              21
EMBRATER  Headquarters             36                      _       54              90
512  Z,180      368             674           3,734
Source: EMBRATER
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 13
- 70 -
BRAZIL
AGP ;I,TUTRAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Tnrrmental Staff Appointments
by Regional Emphasis
EMBRATER    SIBRATER
A.  EMBRATER                              N       NE     CW    SE    S    Brasilia         TOTAL
Headquarters (Brasilia)                                                                 100
Administrative and Technical
Support Staff                      -       -             -             90
Methodology Studies                   -      -       -      -    -       10
B. Ematers and Associates
Program Administration
and Advisory Staff                   8      11      2    -    -         -              21
Incremental Regional
and Field Staff                   363      984   424   172  332         -           2,275
Training Centers                      22      22    22    -    -          -              66
Library and Documentation              7       11     4      5    5       -              32
Current Data Systems                   8      12      4      5    5       -              34
Audio Visual Aids Program             88      142    31    55   55        -             371
Production Systems                     9      12      3    -    -         -              24
Field Demonstration Plots             44      91    22    20   24         -             201
Pilot Production Cooperatives          6       24     4      6   10 ILS
Artisinal Fisheries Colonies          12       24    -       6    8       -              50
3,124
Rural Cooperatives:
Associate Staff _I
Pilot Production Cooperatives         55     245    25    32   53                       410
Artisinal Fisheries                   23       46    -      15   16       -             100
645   1,624   541   316  508        100          3,734
Percentage of Total Increment         17.3    43.5  14.5   8.4 13.6        2.7          100
Percentage Increase over mid-1977  11.6   105.0  42.1  10.9 19.8    21.5                 252/
1/ Staff seconded from state EMATERs for organization and administration of
pilot cooperatives
2/ This percentage based on year-end 1977
December 1977



ANNEX 3
- 71 -                         Table 14
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Incremental Staff Appointments by Project Years
Before    ---Project Period---                   Percent
Project                               Project    of TotAl
(12-31-77)  I    II    III    IV        Total    Increment
EMBRATER (headquarters) Technicians (SL)          160      16    --        6    14        36        1.0
Administrative                          400      39    --        4    21        64        1.7
Subtotal                                560      55   --        T0     35      100        2.7
EMATER (headquarters) Technicians (SL)          1,050      57    28       20     3       108        2.9
Technical Support                               133   117    118    --         368        9.9
Administrative                        2,600      11    29        j     5        5         1.3
Subtotal                              3,650    201   174    143        8       526       14.1
(Regional) Technicians (SL)              750      47    19      19      -        85        2.3
Administrative                          500      --    --       --     -        --        --
Subtotal                              1,250      47    19       19     -        85        2.3
(Local)  Technicians (SL)              2,700      94    46      33      -       173        4.6
Technicians (ML)                      3,800    430   450    460   480    1,820           48.7
Administrative                        2,800    120   130    130   140          520       13.9
Subtotal                              9,300    644   626    623   620    2,513           67.2
(Cooperatives & Fisheries)
Technicians (SL)                        --       30    40       40    --       110        2.9
Technicians (ML)                        --      100   130    130    --         360        9.7
Administrative                          --       10    10       20    --        40        1.1
Subtotal                                --      T40  1T0    19        --       510       13.7
Subtotal EMATERS                               14,200  1,032   999    975   628    3,634           97.3
TOTAL SIBRATER                                 14,760  1,087   999    985   663    3,734          100.0
Percent of Total Increment                       --        29.1  26.7   26.4  17.8    100.0         --
Percent of Base Year (1977)                      --         7.4   6.8    6.7   4.5        25.4      --
Source: EMBRATER and Mission Estimates
December 15, 1977



-72 -                         ANNEX 3
Table 15
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Cost Estimates per Program by Project Year
(US$000)
Component                                                                           Project
Year                          I         II          III          IV         Total        %
A. Institutional Improvements
1. State EMATERS and
Associates                 17,657.7   28,402.1   37,606.7   42,494.9   126,161.4    54.4
2. EMBRATER                     3,399.5    3,482.5    3,468.6    3,468.6    13,819.2           6.0
B. Technical Assistance
and Training
1. Pre-Service and In-
Service Training               869.3    2,041.3        485.1       485.1      3,880.8      1.6
2. Training Centers             1,851.7    4,892.8         854.7       854.7      8,453.9     3.7
3. Short Courses                  205.2       216.8       177.2       240.9        840.1       0.4
4. Fellowships
PhD                      795.1       834.0       701.0       915.2      3,245.3      1.4
M.S.                     174.5       183.1       153.9       200.9        712.4      0.3
5. Documentation Services       1,293.0    1,386.8    1,402.5    1,131.3         5,213.6       2.2
6. Current Data Systems         1,450.5    1,367.3    1,182.6         619.0      4,619.4       2.0
7. Methodology Studies          1,269.0    1,269.0        692.2       615.3      3,845.5      1.7
8. Audio-Visual/
Communications              3,160.5    4,315.9    5,267.4    4,247.9    16,991.7          7.3
C. Field Production Programs
1. Production Systems             343.4       360.7       325.5       296.4      1,326.0      0.6
2. Field Demonstration
Plots                       5,025.5    4,325.5    4,612.7    3,984.5    17,948.2          7.8
D. Cooperatives
1. Crop Production Coops        1,608.6    3,584.2    5,079.9    3,838.1    14,110.8          6.1
2. Artisan Fishery Colonies
and Coops                    1,785.6    3,457.1    3,861.9    1,276.9    10,381.5          4.5
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS              40,889.1   60,119.1   65,871.9   64,669.7   231,549.8    100.0
Source: EMBRATER Project Presentation (Revised) and Mission Data
November 30, 1977



ANNEX 3
- 73 -                        Table 16
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Regional Distribution of Project Costs
(US$000)
a/
Priority Regions                          Non-Priority Regions
Component                                North-    Central                                          Project
Region             North       east      West      s/total      %   s/total        %     Total
A. Institutional hprovements
1. State EMATERS and
Associates             20,274.9  54,471.5  22,934.5  97,680.9   77.4  28,480.5   22.6 126,1614
2. EMBRATER                  2,224.9   5,956.1   2,515.1  10,696.1   77.4   3,123.1   22.6  13,819.2
B. Technical Assistance
and Training
1. Pre-Service and
In-Service Training        426.9   1,552.3       426.9   2,406.1   62.0   1,474.7   38.0   3,880.8
2. Training Centers         2,280.9   3,610.1   2,562.9   8,453.9  100.0          -        -      8.453.9
3. Short Courses                69.3     294.8       74.2      438.3   52.2      60l.A   47.3       840-.1
4. Fellowships
PhD                  337.5   1,096.9       353.8   1,788.2   55.1   1,457.1   44.9   3,245.3
M.S.                  74.1      240.8       77.6     392.5   55.1       319.9   44.9      712.4
5. Documentation
Services                1,042.7   1,668.4       573.5   3,284.6   63.0   1,929.0   37.0   5,213.6
6. Current Data Systems        859.2   1,681.5      600.5   3,141.2   68.0   1,478.2   32.0   4,619.4
7. Methodology Studies       1,281.5   1,282.0   1,282.0   3,845.5  100.0         -         -    3,845.5
8. Audio-Visual Media       3,398.4   5,675.2   1,376.3  10,449.9   61.5   6,541.8   38.5  16,99L7
C. Field Production Programs
1. Production Systems          205.5     385.9      283.8      875.2   66.0      450.8   34.0   1,326.0
2. Demonstration Plots      3,589.6   8,076.7   2,064.1  13,730.4   76.5   4,217.8   23.5  17,948.2
D. Cooperatives
1. Crop Production Coops   1,693.3   8,184.3        846.6  10,724.2   76.0   3,386.6   24.0  14,1108
2. Artisan Fishery
Colonies and Coops      1,650.7   5,242.6        -       6,893.3   66.4   3,488.2   33.6  10,381.5
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS           39.409.4  99,419.1  35,971.8 174,800.3   75.5  56;749.5   24.5 231,549Z
a/ Non-Priority Regions comprise the South and Southeast Regions
Source: EMBRATER Project Document (Revised) and Mission Data
November 30, 1977



- 74-
ANNEX 3
BRAZIL                                Table 17
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Proposed Financing Plan and Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
Financing Agency                         - - - --BANK_ -                       - - - GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL- - - -
Item                           Cost      Cost of
of       Items
Direct   Purchased              Percent   (Federal & State)  % of    Project
Imports   Locally    TOTAL    of Total    Local Costs           Total    Total
Amount to be Financed         (100%)      (35%)                           (65%)      (100%)
Capital Investments
Civil Works                                6.12        6.12      35         11.36      -         65       17.48
Land Purchase                               -           -         -           -         0.13   100         0.13
Vehicles                        -          6.53        6.53      35         12.12                65       18.b5
Office Equip.&Furnishings       1.16       1.63        2.79      48          3.02                52        5.81
Printing&Audiovisual Aids       2.56       2.10        4.66      54          3.90                46        8.56
Communication Equip.            1.29       0.30        1.59      74          0.56                26        2.15
Farm Equipment                  -          0.65        0.65      35          1.22                65        1.87
Fishery Equipment               0.11       0.70        0.81      38          1.32                62        2.13
Library&Documentation
Equipment                    0.20       0.29        0.49      48          0.53                52        1.02
Misc.Capital Items              0.36       1.12        1.48      42          2.07                58        3.55
Sub-total                       5.68      19.44       25.12      41         36.10       0.13    59        61.35
Training&Technical
Assistance
Pre-&In-service Training        -          1.83        1.83      35          3.41                65        5.24
Short Courses                   0.50       0.12        0.62      74          0.22                26        0.84
Fellowships                     2.30       0.81        3.11      68          1.49                32        4.60
Consultants                     3.38       0.78        4.16      74          1.47                26        5.63
Methodology Studies
and Surveys                 -          0.95        0.95      35          1.76                65       2.71
Sub-total                       6.18       4.49       10.67      56          8.35                44       19.02
Incremental Operating Costs
Staff Salaries                            43.65       43.65      35         81.07                65     124.72
Materials&Supplies              -           -           -          -           -       13.26   100        13.26
Other Operating Costs           -                       -         -           -        13.20   100       13.20
Sub-total                                 43.65       43.65      29         81.07      26.46    71      151.18
TOTAL BASELINE COST3           11.86      67.58       79.44      34        125.52      26.59    66       231.55
Physical Contingencies          0.55       2.88        3.43      39          5.36      -         61        8.79
Price Contingencies             2.34      14.79       17.13      38         27.45                62       44.58
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            14.75      85.25      100.00      35        158.33      26.59    65       284.92
TOTAL BY FINANCING AGENCY                            100.00                           184.92             284.92
January 5, 1978



- 75 -                        ANNEX 3
Table 18
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ m)
Disbursements            Balance
Bank Fiscal Year      Quarter Ending      In Quarter   Cumulative       of Loan
FY 1979
Sept. 30              4.0          4.0             96.0
Dec. 31               4.0          8.0             92.0
March 31              4.5         12.5             87.5
June 30               6.0         18.5             81.5
FY 1980
Sept. 30              6.0         24.5             75.5
Dec. 31               6.5         31.0             69.0
March 31              6.7         37.0             62.3
June 30               7.0         44.7             55.3
FY 1981
Sept. 30              7.5         52.2             47.8
Dec. 31               7.8         60.0             40.0
March 31              8.0         68.0             32.0
June 30               8.5         76.5             23.5
FY 1982
Sept. 30              7.5         84.0             16.0
Dec. 31               7.0         91.0              9.0
March 31              5.0         96.0              4.0
June 30               4.0        100.0
April 15, 1978



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Consultants
(in man-years)
Technical
Assistance                   Year I              Year II              Year III            Year IV
Provided in:            EMBRATER  EMATER   EMBRATER  EMATER   EMBRATER  EMATER   EMBRATER  EMATER  TOTAL MANYEARS
1. Administration
and Organization             1       2           1        2           1       1           1        -          9
2. Monitoring
and Evaluation               2       1           2        1           -        -          -        -          6
3.  Training and Human
Resource Development         1       3           1        3           1        3           1       3         16
4. Supervision of Civil
Works Program (TSU)          3       -           3        -           3        -           3       -         12
5. Methodological
Research                     1       3           1        3           1        -           1       -         10
6. Communication - Group
and Mass Media               1       3           1        3           1        3           1       3         16
7.  Fiscal Management            1       -           1        -           -        -           -       -          2
8.  Data Processing              1       -           1        -           1        -           1       -          4
Sub-total for EMATERS               12                   12                    7                   6         37           3
Sub-total for EMBRATER$   11                    11                    8                    8                 38
TOTAL MAN-YEARS                                                                                              75
December 1977



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
Table 20
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Physical Targets for Project Development Programs
1/
Component                      Description of Units      Number of Units
A. Institutional Improvements
1.  Civil Works Program                New building units                48
2.  EMBRATER Training Centers          New building units                 8
3.  Library Services                   Number of field units             24
4. Documentation and Current
Data Systems                       Number of field terminals        600
5.  Audiovisual Aids                   Number of operational units    285
B. Technical Assistance and Training
I.  Pre-service Training               Number of trainees             4,725
2.  In-service Training                Number of trainees            13,500
3.  Short Courses                      Number of courses                381
4. Fellowships
PhD                           Number of candidates              36
M.S.                          Number of candidates             174
5.  Consultant Services                Number of man years               75
6.  Methodology Studies                Number of studies                 12
C. Field Production Programs
1.  Production Systems                 Number of field trials           285
2.  Demonstration Plots                Number of demonstration
plots                    2,575
D. Cooperatives
1.  Crop Production Cooperatives       Number of units assisted         220
2.  "Artisanal" Fishery Colonies       Number of units assisted          20
3.  "Artisanal" Fishery                Number of units assisted          10
CooDeratives
1/ Quantities shown are those at project cippletion.
2/ Indicates total for projects which have three to four replicated sub-plots.
Source: ENBRATER Documents and mission estimates
January 1978



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
EMBRATER-1/and EMATER2I Structures and Functions
urrent Data  |Sstems-                                                                                                    Administra-
Planning                    Documentary                    Staff                          Operations                     Livestock                    tion
Systems                       Deelopment                                                                                 -Finance
Programming                      Data                        Organization.                  Monitoring                    Coordination                 Development
Evluation                     Collection                    Procedures -                    Control and                   of national                  of uniform
Stadies                       P ocessing                     Personnel On-                  Management                    livestock pro-               administration
Uu                                                   Dissemination                  nelopment                      of national                   grams & live                 financial
<                                                    _Ltocnmentation               Consulting to                   programs                      stock activi-                systems in
E                                                                                  State entities                                               ties.                         EMATERs .
ul                                                                                                                                               Monitoring                   auditing and
programs                     control of
national system
Systems 
Planning                                                   Personnel                      Operati|ns                                                Administratioe                                          r Directorate
Development
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C
Local        _
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1/   Federal Extension Service., Headquarters, Brasilia
2/    State Entension Services
World Bank  17489             t  i
December 1977



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
GENERAL ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONAL
STRUCTURE COMMON TO ALL STATE AND ASSOCIATE
RURAL EXTENSION AGENCIES
m - -- -    - -- -    - -- - - - - - - - - - ----   --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -J
TECHNICAL                                                                                   PRESIDENT'S
AMINISTRATIVE                                                    PRESIDENT                   PRSDET                                 ISCAL
ADVISORY                                                           OR                        CABINET                          ADVISORY COUNCIL
COUNCIL
DIRECTOR
_PUBLIC RELATIONS
LEGAL ADVISOR                                           ADVISOR
DEATETO                EPARTMENT OF                                                         DEPARTMENT OF                        DEPARTME NT OF
OPERAI  -    - -- -    - --   DEPRTMET F         - -- -  - - - - -              -          - -- - --- --    ADMINI STRATION
OPERATIONS                           ----PLANNING                                      GPRORAM DEVELOPMENTF
PRODRAM AND        TECHNL                    AND n     STUDIES&                             RGANIZATIONAL    HUMAN RESOE         ADMINISTRATIVEn
PROJECTS UNI      SUPPORT UNIT            UNIT       DCMNAINUNIT          EVALUTIN         DEEOPETUIUNTNT
UNITLPET NTUNTU
|         U                        ~~~~~I             I                 I                  I    I                                   
F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
PRODCTIO PHGRM  I,,                                                                                                 I Io
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
A 0<  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
PRODUCTION PROGRAMS   UERIUIII                                                                                                  .    U     *    *       A
PROJELT A    - -- _- _                        - -                          --       - - -- ----- -- -_-L -              -- _     - -_  -  _  - -   -     -     _ -
PROJECTSB (ETC)      --- 4---                                  -------- -             --y       -- L-       - --  --- L_ -.-A-- --- L-
* *-----""<^-1------r-- 44-4- r                    ------- I---L -------  A--- A A-A-   -J -. - . --  - 
* -----  *4      r--    --    --    --       -      -- - ---          - -- - ---- L   - - -   1---.    -L-.                                         
PROJECT N - -- *r ---- - I -------I-                                        --- -------- ----                                                         <--  - _
SPECIAL PROGRAMS    * * 3m                   I                                                                          IO
_ I'HOGRAM A , M _                                                                                     - - - - <q_--------------------- ----__----- -4---A_-_-_ - A_-O_en _ -   -  Az
_ PROGRMtB4* I_ _ _.ym"T---------------  -----                             .y--- I.. -- ----   - -- .5 --5-  .5 - ..L_ - -_ 4-
PR_RA* - - ---  44 ---- ---- ---A-------------- L                                                                      ---A--- --   --  -----o
*. ---- --"^ 9-I------ r ------- -~~-r                                       -- -~~~ --- ---  ----- ---                     :_ :                            . L--
PR_GRAV                                 --- ------               ------------- L------- -_-_L----_  __ -                                                            .
December 1977                                                                                                                                        do' SR-F 18275



- 80 -                       ANNEX 3
Chart 3
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Brazil's Agricultural Policy-Summary Chart 1/
Policy Level:
Interministerial
Policy-Making      COMAE   COMCRED    CDE   CONCEX       CIF              CMN
Councils
National Cabinet
Ministries of       Ministry of        Ministry of           Ministry of        Bank of Brazil
Independent GOB     Agriculture         Interior        Industry and Comnmerce
Institutions
Intraministerial
Policy-Making        COMPATER
Council
Agencies           Production Ori-       SUDENE                  IAA                CACEX
Subordinated       ented Agencies:       SUDAM                   IBC                CTRIN
to Ministries          EMBRAPA           SUDECO
JEMBRATERI        CODEVASF
INCRA            DNOCS
BNCC
CEPLAC
Food Supply
Agencies,
SUNAB
COBAL
Production and
Food Supply:
CFP
CIBRAZEM
Programs           FUNDECOOP             POLOCENTRO      Emergency Plan for
PROAGRO               POLOAMAZONIA   Recuperation of
PROCAL                POLONORDESTE   Frost-Damaged
PRODEPE               Other           Coffee Plantations
PROPEC               Regional
PRONAZEM              Development
PROTERRA              Programs       PLANALSUGAR
Fertilizer
Subsidy Prog.
1/ This is not a complete list of institutions and pr ograms.  It is just an attempt to list
some of the key agencies and programs and to show where they fit into the GOB's institu-
tional framework.
Source: Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA, Washington, D.C. (BB-6002)
January 21, 1976



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF CIVIL WORKS
BUILDING PROGRAM:                       .                                                                                 _._._.
Project Year                                     I                           I I                          III                         IV
Quarters                               1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4       1      2      3      4      1      2       3     4
TRAINING CENTERS                     A        . B                       -      C
12 months
STATE LEVEL OFFICES                               __ _                                CE                                                        F
18 months
A      B            C      D                 E             F
CO LO NI ES                                                                        E                               -                                             x
12 months
COOPERATIVES                                                     A    B         C        D                E                F
1 2 months
Legend
A. Development Plans Including Sites and Surveys
B. Preliminary Design
C. Final Working Drawings
D. Bidding and Adjudication
E. Construction
F. Commissioning
Source: EMBRATER and Mission Estimates
December 1977                                                                                                                       World Bank -18589



BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Year/Quarter                   Year I                         Year II                        Year III                       Year IV
1       2      3       4       1       2       3      4       1       2       3      4       1       2       3
1, Administrative Integration
of EMATERs
2. Expansion of EMBRATER-
EMATERs Staff
3. Training Extension Agents
-other staff
4. Fellowships - Specialized
Training
5. Civil Works
6. Farm Labor Training
Program
7. Demonstration Plots
Program
8. Production Systems
Program
9. Communication - Data
Systems (installation) 
10. Documentary System
Units
11. Project Evaluation
12. Consultants
Source: Mission Estimates
December 1977
World Bank - 17487



-83-
BddRAIL                                                                                                      ANNEX 3
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT                                                                                            Chart 6
SUYfMAIY OF VRYAM OBJECYIVES AND IIPLEMENRTATION
CATEGORY AND CONPONENR                                                   INSTITUTIONAL                                                                                                          RESPENSL[ILITHY
--------------A-------------------    A.  FiDEEAL LEVEL        ATRAER  -----------------------------        _-______________---------------------------   B   STATE REEL  EBRAITER)
_(EIMB_                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
I.  ISJBrECTP S                 2.  IMTHR)nOREIY                3.  TARGET AREA IIhASRS         1.  OBJECTIVES                  2.  NTIETRODLOGY                     3.  TARGET GROU1                     4.  STAFF STSPONSIBLE
T.    TUROVEtNENT OF EXISTSNG
CACILITIES
1/
a) tneeeoseotol Staff -        To strengthen adnln-            Staff develop-etn thrnugh       Technical and adl                   -tniotra-  0tonogaheniag of fi  9  Selection of middle level           N A                             C--reot  taRfing  f  tate
istrative and tcchnical         ohort coorse, fellowship        Lilt and dIptre-,-ots em-       operation teams at             (iNTI  and superior level 1511T                                             human   se  on to uder
osoieoanme moire eon-           end il-seovice tea-oing         phlin on eo  peogoams  and    regtooal med local levels         techti cms em ratio of 4:1                                                 developing deparst-ete Is
sisteno mith see and            proglal_s:  tec1uitot-t llooon to CtATIsR                                                       snlnctio  blamed mainly em eandi-                                          adequate.  N1oher of di-
expaoded profrEmo               otioly from withIn SIRA17E1                                                                     dates in loot poet of high  -oh-l                                            ..ememoel staff to ho
an _niversity level edn-ation                                              tentoited  (2275)
b) Libhary, DRcumectetito    Ineroase and Improenm-            Corditnate all  ytatan.   L     Poiaoily  -totes of North,    Uolf-i-at om of rzorrt            FYe Liblray:  Resp-nse totoh-    Fcr i-otoing data Qnd                     Etinting staff whh till bh
and Ctrent Datua gysteom   tent of  Iedvansrequirad         atata lensi, hed on             Nontbtd-t, -nd Central Es t   atate systame with fed-           sieal staff fcr  addtiloal sea-    deenvootatios, the pan-                 toatned in oew techoiqoss pIns
by additionAl technicAl         rsdotal model to petals                                         otal model: seIlijg op of       tines -equired for d.o..e..tol       ds.c.: tof  data on                    (6b) incrsmecta1 statf io
astff                           nasy fInow  of infotmatino                                      tctemo dnat systsms             ouernot data, antting op of teeo,-  CRATER persemeel sod fee               tegionsl officsa
Ind d-comentatton                                               welh_  r_nse So not al-         tosl receiving and tramomiestem       federal data systems
condy soilt                     oqnip:o-st                           EMBRATER, MINAC and
(SUPTIN)
c) hodiovisual Atds           Provide means See ate'up        Ueo  of modlenfamal tas-         tSiall.ibAton facattos nloRly   as Rot All)                     a0 Rot All), aneaddirtional          as or Ret   ), selecttics of          A fee of  hth  existiog field
appoe.a.  in  -nteonios         ettes, films, siaplt            in dntclnpi,,g teffoas  Aner                                    sotimoss  noold En given to           grasps w uAld he - oted en           Aneennic-  staff trained fat
agent/farmer contacts          isformati on slants and          nRt.anoto                                                                          git- In looking  formation of groops thnasil  boSs of camsoe  prod stise  ots of see eqn-pma-t pIns
tadi.o programs                                                                                 oelaolioo of total grt:p             smaite, markating otnit  emd/or       additional progra  spaniajlists
sladers                              noepa_atin- orgaisaions               (3711
d) Rivil Wohk                  prnvlstonofeessary             laden civil Works contrstctt   TortE, Ntorheot sod               Supply adnqsalt  f-niliLii-   as fSe A(2) nadec stpot-                   N.A,                              Cotrated servites or lanaI
bhildingi fcr  toelnilg         bssed em loeally advettised   Control WRou                      foc aeliofsies meesiood          iRi-0 froom EMBRATER                                                      lavel mndar EMATFR/CnhATER
tantersn, nete RMATER           bids                                                            A(l)                                                                                                       supsrvisTion
offices And fisheries
toeps
a) Equipmeco Rnd              Upgrsdinf of cxiltine            PetNlhss by peonurem-t ela    G.nncai, no -oqoi-ed by           no fPe A(l)                     Aetnal porch.se a  for               as fat A(3)                           Staff of Mat.lal a-d Supplies
Furnishinfs                 not ta to facilitnte in-       psanhasnje  oats of adomiss-   deporotmns neinR                                                 All) hut under nadnee aob-                                                  Section, Adsiaiatrative  Unit
plemassaticn uS ane  and         orason/finacst  dnpatrtleentosttagtEunad                                                       nissed hy Matsrfal ssd                                                     tenponsfdII  EMATER.  Na
emisoing programs               sndet cDnditions agnanallo                                                                      Supplino Sectioo of Adminis-                                               addPti'nai staff reqoired
to  lsa  aNeo                                                                                   tration UmIt uf _anh ERAYdER
ST.   TRANININ  ANM TEChNICAL
a) P_a- and In-eervics        Upgrade telhni-l And           Provide relginal training        ERntir  pan nt attn            As f- A(t), is addition          Modify corric la modat               Estire project noe  otaff,            Ttaining cffirs from oath
aIncisng                   adaisisrateive level staff    tatters, trained tseanhbon                                         is-ssrvicc training coold       federal got fdeliens  and           particularlp finEd staff sod           strae plus additional teac-dfh
carfi and oPiCasefty in                                         fotosanreRtonol programs    improve teanhing otaff                   field enpert-o-ry staff               staff (66)
eurrioulom plaenieng aopnoius
b) Consultct Se v      nod Tonspplynevnto  hdn  gy     atnts for smeted cnadi-   logy  oooitu tl,  t,,do               inupto doriag e tuctia  yeats   EIMBAR i se  A(2)v)                         m  i=gtiLEAE                   25ff   Cas,,a yedcnta lan
tetvice.for prjeet    daten based an   qfRon          ealuntion, ficatl ostue-    of projeWt implemnotatitn                                                soletsc anon spetieLints ned
impimenaseiom                  terms of cnrooren                n,ent ond dota pOeit                                                                                m Id   r
a) RnndeloRp Nandies          To tent end avaloste. altet-   Study of salnEtad metheoda-    CpE^Enn3is [a A [talon          1 As for dIll                     Ga for A(2)                           Comsnive srouPs in eana               Consuls YBc sectvices oa
natfvm exeensiton methodo-      iogy Eascd on loeal noudld-    (2 it tool nnaccn             l                                                                       seleetad area hased non               snlered unsleernCptyosantracs
logy nith eaphemsi  on grosp   titans in enel of 6 states       teajon)                                                                                              commnos   denominator for             plua (lY) recnmiesl advisnep
neosenninutio - methods                                                                                                                                              aeah g=up  en tmplsnamsanen           end support staff
cf prterbty devalIrmtn
IIS.  OPERATIUNAI,AL rROCRAM EMFEASTSprcgram
a) fatNing Spseims             Derign of pengramsto an        Ceordtnnle te graeasanEt         Sl,oooCn flrzinaed by           1'teunln adoption of wan        Dteonstrearin on fAnoncrs            Lot to medtum level                  Adminisrration and reeiterine
.eslneal lanli according        raslonal and natpnoal            penlt-h   d6ntdopnenoI prodnttfen tetbaqlols fields tn ranessrotitve                                Intone eange.                         Rena s:ate intel.  -apleotation
to proparties                   no,aaadl-lpestncnh oment s    polls or apeoful non adlay    dvelopad by reseorth                aress                                                                     GE asEginal and letal
and state EMAITERS              pthcato                                                                                                                                   sexeensfen seaff  (201)
b) pilad   amensatratins      isnapund to  testiosal poiori-   Cocrdinatn pesrlp plannin 0     iasned ano orsplnto tone,       Eemenslrnlsamortneono-          Saerc fancms to donnln land          ttedneioootlp lee ioncoe             as for ITI(a1 shove.  Nassarcl,
tiespanoi csorogeprs    oso Poatolon9 till, otanc senet     otntoiln tajoc pro-                nioca  pooduooti enamhedo        an  loe n iod fer  etns p     no    tame  for rargs oR ouhbsctoc          perantneL ate aLso aeae  to
prndteats                                                       lsps  a,,d atailabls ispocs     ist.  Preynre bulletin 00            snd major axpoca crops sheen         Eulleil_s. odditiofal scoff
ressul sachienved                    cedfss 10 large Eaten bEnePi t        requirement of:  (24)
e) Produetr Cosperatloos       vromnete noopernatve movemnto  Liaison bestweno Ohs             She asnantlp dnnelnpted ot      Itovisioc of kep admniastra-  Encrsrage ternRlue nOa nonpara-    lelectttsaion no of np iLll              Fc basic ceqoftemeoc Per sddi-
as mnans of providIng small   Natlnnai Iionpnsutive Ad-         dreelnyinY otoss of utoc-       thee onsff ImaseSertal,         tintsnescemests thtrough cuacl       cunaton intenc9sn (enmeedipl         ational stasf  at slats intel.
prodnoets minI intesased        vloury Bcerd (TSC) anod         o,,lotnrl sectllmnen.           ancoot Ring and ednlnety)       eelfarte projects and supply         crop Inuls) whon Eats so in-         Adutets tration tpailallsr teams
pondootlst iscestteas mmd       eni ec national otedll                                          *a prceeto formation of         inputc  as ,,neded (see previous     fluento on narlatieg and             t3 per ,,oits  proeldud feet
access in addlticnsal in-       coepecraive Goloal  mitth                                       onew snperannoon at the         peala                                storage of proeds,rrlo.              fnderl heoadqsnareot (A6R)
pints such asa radit            regisnal EINATIRS                                               yrnisneo level                                                       Trnnp oyproanh assists
inontual trensfer ef tesc-
noelgs' under faverblle as-
tenxionist tn pnodnneo ratios
d) loleoles rot Artisanoal   Ta hrntg thess gr upps nith-   freovide litiesoet ti.S            I .Iood inil,eonc.mtnLnijn     ,'cnPo,.de cuGesion fnr          preelda Easln inlraotrmatrnr,        Snail oosa,ooltlns of ioloeoavt      Additional staff reqarements
F is   e SYiL-Insthe prgamd to  narim                ni )PCCACTfI nod 'tonift                                         tabtlity  and  haris for       oulogy ocd maek   orodias            idet Ifted
rheir isncommas thrcugh see      dmlistrur Inc yatootast                                        noopcoiisnoensn0vmiaU
artehnolgy
1/ EhesnI the 111 anenral ndministrativs s"an  foers eRAEt end IRAIIA heaqnnaete.s cp inct n  arc
added rn  the  total so oel,,tn NI4), i.e., Sf23, able  omev  tetel fincrem.enl stmff lot pto)ent (3,73),             _i!  1 )  unsicass smncaaeaaal  ttaft taqioes-nt
EDeermber lYll






- 84 -                       ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.     Principal Documents Prepared by EMBRATER
1. Expansion and Improvement of Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Services in Brazil - Preliminary Outline: EMBRATER,
March 1977 (in Portuguese)
2. Project for the Expansion and Improvement of Technical Assistance
and Rural Extension Services in Brazil (Main Document, EMBRATER,
May 1977 (in Portuguese)
3. Title - as above - Revision to Main text of May 1977 submitted by
EMBRATER, September 1977 (in Portuguese)
B.     Supplementary Staff Working Papers
1. Brazil: The Agricultural Sector
2. Agricultural Extension in Brazil
3. EMBRATER: Organization and Management
4. Project Implementation
5. Civil Works Program
6. Economic and Social Benefits



I



l52str? SNsrJ   r \  7Duh '   ss'   * ';   <    ORGETOWN  '5'      >                       15-                   40                  IBRD-1312(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I RD-1312
XW  U    ( f  \      ?f   V  E N  E Z U  jEL A        , 1          ;         Y    E          N
| ] a d W r r ' \ A9|\ i BOAttISTA { ',~~~~~~~ 7,        Z A N   z I C                                                     O C EA N
;:',1! -,!:: \ ,UR:\t\v1\, ,ctp   ,                                                                        :* >A aW; 
wDzC L M S- +K  s                tt    t   )          ; k    f  tMA                   Af/20OL  -- 
0       ,'                                                     2    X                  4' 'w'_'P1-';0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
0   /       0            t)                (     t N            <        0 1  > ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s,TE   i;,. ',qRTALE , ZA S
t   4  -  t   rXPORTOVELHOt      ff     <              y    y           X)4F           4    {                    /\   ye<3  R sr.A , tt VECIFE~~~~~~~9 e~NDAR
,J E B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Rw )                                                          ANI i AAoJo'                       <9I
2 A 5 -:, sv   g  0   t1 0  e   K g    <       --;    5      t                   t          ;  | j 4  i  t  A           t *G  F P .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATA
t i   g  tti  t  i    \                        pF  - 9 O   1  4  s t             /t                   ,.tS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A/LY A
4-,tR  ,n,,,. ;  .,j;   ,   j OR NENT..2D
S   ^: 2 (   $   B RAZI L   D     -         <                        p           l    l k e? ~I A      _-s          N    o^H~:p~:.i 
i =I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACULTURA                                                   L           XESO  BROJCT.g.}5CAUiLlo AfwROtrnj Z
S  r S                           ;   , S2  2L|g jgj2[fa >m\;                                 S                                        mylo*      a
0  0  \  \  \  r>TE 5~~~~~~~~~~ [ER HE~G                                 O A N IARE9      't  >t8   
A _g. .f ' J  *   T5ERITORIAL /6lER   8    2    r [   ,, ' ,,. '  > - _    )                                                         2        <        A.'29.-Ji/C CfFAD'~~~~~~)'
4s3 Q            IA tDUAlR                         i      j ,                                              <gTOIAOOISf 
;,7.,   __ __ 5;AIE 9 TERRITOrY BoU:DAAIW  } ' .; -+ 1/                        v z"                   A t/anI P\.-A3S   G  iil.R 
'                                                                                              -. -    { ATe 9:A T{O :AL 5(hDAAlE5 X ,, '/ ' j {X r . !, . .!, . ^ , z- > . . .7: .3;I Z O73'
0      KLOV. EES                                     ATO                                   A LGRE              5; e a 8                             9                  < T
IES   <X.s.,,,  tX         U   ,j pW                                                                        #ffi5  7
W - l; .o ::BrAZ6.@ , 5IL_U _0 






I B R D 13416
"W                                                                     I .! F BRUARY 197E
BOGOTA                            V  E N  E Z U E L                                                         CAYENNE
rReNCH
UTH
SURINAM
9,                                               A                                   B R A Z IL                                        BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION I PROJECT
NA                                                                                                           #MIRICA
0    L  0   M      I A                                                                   K                                              PHYSICAL   FEATURES
A PA
2
'EM                 )g
N NOW,
m
RA
A                                                                                            8",
m A ZN'
R A
w                                                                                                 RIO  GRANDE
R
AN
0
J...
V,
P    E    R   V
PA Z
b   U   L   I   V   I   A
oct-,-4 iv,
20--
P A R
LiQ                                                                         SUNci6N
AL' IIUDII IN II11111
RINA                           100D..d Ab.,a
5(0- 1000
200-500
L                                                                                                                                    - 200
L L-                                                                                                                                                 0
A       R   G    E   N    T   I  N    A                                                                               N.Ii.-C.) C.Pifl.
st.t. C.Pil,II,                              30-
7
r.
0   *0  200   300  400  W
SA  'IAGO                                                                A
BUEN
AIRES                                                                                                      i:,--FEIEFF,
--------------



