J¢ n nfV                     Document of
FILE COUPYI    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2311-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
May 3, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar Year 1977      March 20, 1978
Currency Unit               =        Cruzeiro (Cr$)               Cr$
US$1                                Cr$i4.1                     16.845
Cr$l                       =         US$0.07                      O.o6
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABCAR         - Associacao Brasileira de Credito e Assistencia Rural
ACAR          - Associacao de Credito e Assistencia Rural
ASTER         - Associacao de Asistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
BNB           - Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, S.A.
CATI          - Coordenadora de Assistencia Tecnica Integrada
CFP           - Comissao de Financiamento da Producao
CIBRAZEM      - Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento
COBAL         - Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
COMPATER      - Comissao Nacional de Pesquisa Agropecuaria, Assistencia Tecnica
e Extensao Rural
CONAB         - Conselho Nacional de Abastecimento
DIPOA         - Departamento de Inspecao de Produtos de Origen Animal
DNSC          - Departamento Nacional de Servicos de Comercializacao
EMATER        - Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
EMBRAPA       - Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
EMBRATER      - Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
FUNRURAL      - Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural
1CM           - Imposto sobre Circulacao de Mercadorias
INAN          - Instituto Nacional de Alimentacao e Nutricao
INCRA         - Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
PIN           - Programa para Integracao Nacional
POLAMAZONIA   - Programa de Polos Agropecuarios e Agrominerais da Amazonia
POLOCENTRO    - Programa de Polos Agropecuarios da Area Central
POLONORDESTE  - Prograna de Desenvolvimento das Areas Integradas do Nordeste
PROATER       - Programaa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
PROTERRA      _ Programa de Redistribuicao de Terras e de Estimulos a Agro-industria
do Norte e Nordeste
SUDENE        - Superintendencia para Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
TSU           - Technical Support Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$15.435)
corresponds to the cruzeiro selling rate as of November 30, 1977.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   The Federative Republic of Brazil.
Beneficiaries:              Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e
Extensao Rural (EMBRATER) and the respective
agencies in the states (EMATERs) and territories
(ASTERs) responsible for technical assistance and
agricultural extension.
Amount:                     US$100 million equivalent.
Terms:                      Repayment in 15 years including 3 years of grace at
7.5% interest per annum.
Prolect
Description:              The proposed project is designed to strengthen, over
a four-year period (1978-81), the federal and state
institutions responsible for providing agricultural
extension services, in support of the Brazilian
Government's on-going programs to increase agricul-
tural production, significantly speed development
of the less developed areas of the country, and
improve the productivity of farmers, particularly
small farmers. Although the project is national in
scope, special emphasis would be given to the three
priority regions of the North, Northeast and Center-
West. About two-thirds of total investments under
the project, and about two-thirds of such programs
as farming production systems and demonstration
field trials included in the project, would be de-
signed to assist smaller farmers whose average
annual per capita income is estimated to be below
the relative poverty level in Brazil of US$380
equivalent. The proposed project complements the
on-going agricultural research project, for which
a Bank loan of US$40 million was approved in 1976
(Loan No. 1249-BR of June 23, 1976), which is
concentrated in the same three priority regions,
and is intended to ensure that the new agricultural
technologies developed under that project actually
reach the greatest possible number of farmers.
There are several risks faced by the project. One
is inherent in any education process such as agri-
cultural extension, namely, that there is no
certainty regarding the extent to which knowledge
imparted to farmers will be applied. There is also
This document has a resiricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
a risk that EMBRATER and the EMATERs/ASTERs may
fail to develop their human resources adequately
through recruitment and training, as required
to carry out, over a relatively short period, a
large and administratively complex program.
Estimated Cost:
% of
Baseline
Capital Investments                     Local    Foreign    Total         Cost
----- (US$ millions) ----
Civil Works                             13.98        3.50      17.48        7
Vehicles                                 13.06       5.59      18.65        8
Office, Library Equipment and
Furnishings                            4.49        2.34       6.83        2
Printing and Communications
Equipment                              3.85        6.86      10.71        5
Farm and Fisheries Equipment             2.23        0.77       4.00        2
Miscellaneous Capital Items and
Land Purchase                         2.97        0.71       3.68        2
Subtotal                           41.58       19.76      61.35      26
Training and Technical Assistance
Training                                  6.56       4.12      10.68        4
Studies and Consultants                  4.96        3.38       8.34        4
Subtotal                           11.52        7.50      19.02       8
Incremental Establishment Costs
Incremental Staff                      124.72         -       124.72       54
Materials, Supplies and Other
Operating Costs                       22.48        3.98      26.46       12
Subtotal                          147.20        3.98    151.18       66
Total Baseline Cost                    200.30       31.25    231.55       100
Physical Contingencies                   6.59        2.20       8.79        4
Price Contingencies                     37.63        6.95      44.58       19
Total Costs                            244.52       40.40    284.92      123



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                     US$ million           %
Federal Government         111.0              39
State and Territorial
Governments
(EMATERs and ASTERs)    73.9               26
IBRD                      100.0               35
284.9             100
Estimated
Disbursements:                         ----------US$ millions------------
Bank FY 1979   1980   1981    1982
Annual            18.5       26.2   31.8    23.5
Cummulative       18.5      44.7   76.5   100.0
Rate of Return:             The internal economic rate of return has been
estimated at about 14%, based on possible yield
increments for six important basic food and export
crops and conservatively estimated rates of accep-
tance by farmers of new agricultural technology
over the assumed 12 year project life.
Appraisal Report:           Report No. 1877-BR, dated May 3, 1978.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$100 million
to help finance an agricultural extension project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1665a-BR), dated
October 13, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 21,
1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I to this report.
3.        The late 1960s ancl early 1970s were years of remarkable economic
growth and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth in
GDP during this period was accompanied by a strong balance-of-payments perfor-
mance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967 to 1973 and a
process of export diversification significantly reduced Brazil's dependence
upon coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the
same time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the early
1970s prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable
improvement upon the inflatLon of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespread monetary correction and indexation of financial
instruments helped to minimize the distortions which often accompany inflation
(although indexing makes it more difficult to reduce the level of inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at 9.5% in
that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-payments
performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The continuation
of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp deterioration
in the terms of trade resulted in a trade deficit amounting to US$4.7 billion.
The elimination of that deficit has been a major objective of economic policy
since that time. To this end the Government fortified simultaneously its
policies of export promotion and of import substitution. As a result of these
policies, the trade gap closed progressively year by year. In 1977 exception-
ally high coffee prices contributed towards a strong increase of export
revenues and the trade gap was eliminated entirely in that year. It is pro-
jected that the trade gap will remain closed even though coffee prices have
already rolled back significantly from the high levels prevailing in early
1977. This expectation is predicated on a major effort to expand other exports,
particularly of manufactured goods.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the sections on the economy
in the President's Reports for the urban transport and COPESUL petro-
chemical projects (Reports Nos. P-2254-BR and P-2246-BR) distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 25 and 27, 1978 respectively.



- 2 -
5.        Inflation is another problem that has become a focus of attention in
recent years. Sharp rises in the prices of petroleum and other imported goods
in 1974 gave an added impetus to inflationary pressures which were already
building up in the Brazilian economy even prior to the world cconomic crisis.
Inflation increased in 1974 and continued to accelerate in the subsequent
two years -eaching a peak of 46% in 1976. The Government has employed a wide
range of monetary and fiscal instruments to combat inflation. Interest rate
policy has in general been realistic, except in the agricultural sector where
systematic subsidi-ation of interest rates (see para. 31) has complicated
monetary management. On the positive side is the much greater control now
exercised by the federal government over the investment programs of public
sector decentralized agencies. There is evidence that these policies are
having effect. Inflation for 1977 was some 39%, and in the second half of
1977 inflation slowed to a rate of some 30% on an annual basis. If the
Government continues to exercise careful control over monetary and fiscal
policy, further headway against inflation is likely.
6.        Brazil's economic performance since 1974 has been deeply affected
by balance-of-payments constraints. Growth fluctuated sharply from 4.2% in
1975 to 8.7% in 1976 and down again to 6% in 1977 as the Government searched
for an appropriate balance between expansion on the one hand and, on the other
hand, the need to resolve difficulties in the balance-of-payments and in the
domestic inflationary situation. The Government recognizes the need for con-
tinued moderation in growth during the next two or three years if inflation
is to be kept under control, the balance of payments is to be further improved
and a sound basis for longer term development is to be preserved. It is
projected that growth may average little more than 6% during the remaining
years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is every indication that
Brazil has the potential to sustain higher levels of growth provided (a) that
reasonable expansion of output and trade takes place in the industrial coun-
tries, and (b) that sound economic policies are consistently pursued in
Brazil. In this respect the Government's development strategy provides a
sound framework for future development.
7.        The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payments
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture re-
ceived explicit recognition in the development plan and the results achieved
over the past several years (particularly in soya production) justify the
priority given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising
the living standards of the rural poor and for developing the vast frontier
lands of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive
schemes have been introduced to encourage exports. However, Brazil's indus-
trial development strategy now concentrates upon import-substitution programs
in steel, non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals, fertilizers and capital goods.
Brazil aims at self-sufficiency in many of these products by the early 1980s.
Beyond that point these same industries may develop a good export potential.



- 3 -
8.        Public sector investment accounts for more than half of total fixed
investment in the Brazilian economy. Federal investment is heavily concen-
traded in infrastructure and basic industry. These two areas together account
for about 70% of total investment by federal government agencies and enter-
prises. Regional development and social programs absorb most of the remaining
30%.  Until 197.;, the rapid expansion of public investment reflected a heavy
emphasis on road construction and regional development. The second National
Development Plan (1975-79) added a massive program of import substitution in
basic industrial inputs, and an acceleration in the pace of social programs.
Since 1977, however, severe restraints have been placed on public investment,
in order to reduce a growing public sector savings gap and the accompanying
balance-of-payments deficit. The sectors most affected are road and rail
transport, whose ambitious expansion plans have been cut back sharply. Invest-
ments in electric power, on the other hand, are maintained at a high level,
and in basic industries such as steel, non-ferrous metals and petroleum, are
being stepped up considerably. The share of regional development programs in
total federal investment has now stabilized at about 7%. The percentage
allocated to social investment is increasing gradually, reflecting continued
expansion of federal investment in housing, water supply and sewerage, and
other urban development programs. State and municipal governments also devote
a substantial portion of their resources to health, education, welfare and
other social services.
9.        Despite its impressive growth performance and vast future potential,
Brazil is still a country with extensive poverty. The present Government
acknowledges the country's poverty problem and accepts responsibility for its
alleviation. While, like the previous Government, its believes that a high
rate of growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it does not
believe that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and has
formulated a new policy wbLich could be labeled as "redistribution with growth."
To implement this policy, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs
initiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures in three
broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and
(c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a
favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural develop-
ment in the Northeast. The program which covers the 1975-79 period is designed
to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers through inter alia,
formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects, which in
some cases include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the
assumption that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole.
Therefore, the Government has identified 31 sub-regions covering large portions
of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used initially.  The
Bank has made loans for initegrated rural development in three of these sub-
regions, and several others are in preparation.
11.       In the area of social services, the Government has created a new
Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs
and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population.  The Govern-
ment is also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the previous
Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given by the



- 4 -
National Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which will
enjoy better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also
developing a site and services program to encourage construction of self-
help housing by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In
agriculture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency will, with the
assistance of the Bank loan herein proposed, expand and strengthen its
activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the new
federal agriculture research institution is defining its program to include
a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that small-scale
farms benefit from research efforts. In November 1974, the Government revised
the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage scale and the real
minimum wage was increased in 1975 and again in 1976. While in 1977 the
Government restricted wage increases as part of a policy package designed to
control overall demand and to combat inflation, this does not signify any
basic change in its longer term goal of improving income distribution.
12.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however. Compared with a US$6 billion annual average for 1974-76,
it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital
(that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursement from official and
private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80. This
projection assumes that it will be possible to sustain and subsequently improve
upon the trade balance achieved in 1977, with export volume rising at an average
rate of 11.5% annually in 1977-80, and import growth held down to only 2.8% a
year in real terms during this period. The outlook for Brazil's principal
export commodities is quite favorable for the next several years, and it is
expected that the good overall export performance projected here can be
achieved, provided that the country continues to follow present exchange rate
policies to ensure the competitiveness of manufactured exports. On the import
side, several major import-substitution programs are already having a notable
impact. The further development of these programs should enable Brazil to
continue to restrain imports without jeopardizing growth.
13.       On December 31, 1977, Brazil's estimated public external debt
amounted to about US$16.6 billion and the public debt service ratio for 1977
is estimated at some 19%. This is somewhat higher than the 15% average public
debt service ratio estimated for the first half of the 1970s and reflects a
higher proportion of medium-term financial credits within the overall debt
structure. Total external debt (both public and private) registered by the
Central Bank at end-1977 is estimated at US$29.5 billion and somewhat over
two-thirds of this debt (some US$20 billion) is in the form of financial
credits. The net debt service ratio on total external debt during 1977 was
about 41% compared with an average of 38% during the early 1970s. However,
net foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1977 were about US$7.0 billion,
equivalent to some six months' imports of goods and non-factor services and
sufficient to cover nearly one quarter of the total outstanding external
debt. Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden the substantial level of
foreign exchange reserves ensure that the country will have the liquidity to



- 5 -
meet its debt service obligations in the short term. The breakdown between
public and private debt in the longer run can be projected only tentatively.
Much will depend upon the extent to which the Government will extend its
guarantee to loans contracted externally by non-government entities. Even
assuming that a government guarantee will be granted in an increasing number
of cases, it is projected tientatively that the public debt service ratio will
peak in the late 1970s at about 20%. Subsequently, a fall to about 16% by
1985 is projected, assuming that Brazil can increase the value of its exports
by an average of 17% per annum over the period 1980-85 and that the average
maturities of new financial credits gradually improve from six to eight
years. The country's record of financial and economic management provides
grounds for confidence in the maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer
run. Nevertheless, there can be no doubt that very careful management of the
external accounts will continue to be necessary.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
14.       As of March 31, 1978 the Bank had approved 77 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$3,617.4 million, of which 39 were not yet fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing
to an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225
million in FY74, US$248 million in FY75 and US$202 million in FY76.
US$267 million was disbursed in FY77 and US$129.3 million in the first half of
FY78. The decline in disbursements in FY76 was due primarily to the reduced
level of lending in FY73-74. Disbursements are expected to increase during
the next few years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
March 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Since FY75, Bank lending to Brazil has amounted to between US$400
and US$500 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling US$426.5
million; and in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million. In FY77, several
loans totalling US$425 million were approved: US$40 million for a second
water supply and sewerage project in Minas Gerais, US$83 million for a second
agro-industries credit project, US$82 million for a power transmission project
in the South, US$42 million for an integrated rural development project in
Minas Gerais, US$64 million for a nitrogen fertilizer project, US$82 million
for a phosphate fertilizer project, and US$32 million for a vocational training
project. So far in FY78, the Bank has approved two loans of US$17 million
and US$24 million for rura:L development projects, respectively, in the states
of Ceara and Paraiba in the Northeast, a loan of US$110 million for a sewage
collection and treatment project for Sao Paulo, a loan of US$130 million for a
power distribution project in the states of Minas Gerais, Santa Catarina and
Espirito Santo in the South and Southeast, and a loan of US$114 million for a
highway maintenance and rehabilitation project. Loans of US$85 million for a
petrochemicals project in the South and of US$88 million for urban transport
are at present before the Executive Directors. Other loans at an advanced
stage of preparation are for an integrated rural development project in the
state of Bahia, an aluminum project, an industrial pollution control project,
a water supply and sewerage project in the Northeastern States of Bahia,
Ceara and Pernambuco, and a site and services project for Recife, Salvador
(Bahia) and Sao Paulo.



- C, -
16.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1977, amounting to nearly US$16.6 billion, the Bank held about 8.5%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present
trends continue as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt
outstanding would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt
service would rise in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total
(public and private) external debt service would remain at the present level
of 2.8%.
17.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of March 31, 1978, IFC had made commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$332 million, of which US$204 million had been cancelled, repaid
or sold. Of the balance of US$128 million, US$101 million represent loans
and US$27 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments up to March 31,
1978 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
18.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. An important lending objective in Brazil is to help to
intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that
will increase productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of the
population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. The proposed agricultural extension project
is largely addressed to this objective. It would strengthen the national
agricultural extension system to enable it to provide improved agricultural
extension services, primarily in the less developed regions of the Northeast,
North and Center-West and with particular emphasis on assistance to low-income
farmers. The recently approved loans for nutrition research and development,
vocational training, agricultural research, and polders construction in the
Lower Sao Francisco Valley, for integrated rural development projects in the
States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara and Paraiba, and for
sewage collection and treatment in Sao Paulo, as well as the proposed urban
transport loan, were all designed to assist low-income groups. Additional
projects to reach low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation, includ-
ing a sites and services project, sewerage and water supply projects in several
northeastern states, a medium-sized cities development project, and a second
urban transport project. Additional integrated rural development projects
designed to help low-income farmers in the Northeast are also in preparation.
19.       A second bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform designed to develop rational policies and pro-
cedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help maximize public
savings and ensure that they are used economically. The institution-building
objective is important in the proposed Agricultural Extension Project, which
includes a large program of incremental staffing of the extension services at
the federal, state and local levels, and extensive components for staff train-
ing and technical assistance. The institution-building objective has also
been important in Bank assistance for vocational training, and for the trans-
portation sector where emphasis has been given to the rational selection of



- 7 -
investments, the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of
the railways' financial performance. Loans for electric power, water supply
and sewerage, industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and urban
development also have important institution-building objectives.
20.       Anot._-r lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Bank support of fertilizer projects is helping Brazil to substitute imports
with large-scale efficient domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments
position. Bank lending for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil
is also supporting this objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in
the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facili-
tate the smooth and economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expan-
sion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional
import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the
country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal
markets. A similar objective would be achieved through the proposed petro-
chemical and aluminum projects. Likewise, the proposed Agricultural Extension
Project supplements previous projects to help Brazil reduce its dependence on
imports of some key agricultural commodities (e.g., wheat, dry beans and
natural rubber); maintain or develop self-sufficiency in the production of
several basic food crops (e.g., beans, cassava and rice); and gradually
increase exports of others (e.g., beef, maize and cacao).
21.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is
to provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital
inflows that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in
order to sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and
regional development objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in
Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as an important
sign of confidence in Brazil and encourages other external lenders to continue
their own programs there. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation is helping Brazil obtain additional resources
in greater amounts and oni more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies
and private financial institutions. Five co-financing operations totalling
US$204 million have been concluded since 1976 with private financial insti-
tutions and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Sector in the Econom'L
22.       Of Brazil's toital land area about 35% (294 million ha) is currently
utilized for crop, livestock or timber production. This area is divided into



- 8 -
an estimated 4.9 million holdings, of which about 65% are estimated to be
owner-occupied and 35% under rent/sharecropping arrangements. Of the total,
about 2.52 million (51%) are of 10 ha or less, representing in the aggregate
about 9.08 million ha or only 3.06% of the total area utilized for production.
About 91% of all holdings are in the 1-100 ha range, accounting for 23.5% of
the total area in production, while holdings of 100 ha and over represent 9%
of total holdings but account for about 76.5% of the total land area in produc-
tion. The great majority of properties are therefore held by small- and
medium-scale farmers. The technical assistance services of the proposed
agricultural extension project would be increasingly directed to smaller
farmers in the three priority regions of the North, Northeast and Center-West
(see IBRD Map No. 13120 annexed hereto). The average annual per capita
incomes of such farmers are estimated to be below the relative poverty level
in Brazil of US$380 equivalent (1976).
23.       The Brazilian economy has traditionally maintained a strong agri-
cultural base. The relative importance of agriculture has shown a gradual
decline in overall contribution to GDP during the past decade (from 13% in
1966 to about 11% in 1975) but agriculture still absorbs about 40% of the
active labor force, and accounts for about 60% of total merchandise exports
(see para. 24). Over the 1967-74 period, the agricultural sector performed
well in supplying domestic demand for food and fiber as well as a rising volume
of export commodities, with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse
climate conditions in three out of seven years. Annual growth in the sector
has been somewhat erratic in recent years with 8.5% growth in 1974, only 3.4%
in 1975, 4.2% in 1976, and a greatly improved 9.8% in 1977, which can be
attributed largely to increased values for coffee, cacao and soybeans.
24.       The most important crops for the domestic market include manioc
(cassava), rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, dairy products,
poultry, beef and swine. Coffee, sugar, soybeans, cacao, cotton, maize,
castor bean (oil), tobacco, citrus and sisal are important for both the
export and domestic markets. Three commodities (coffee, soybeans and sugar)
accounted for about 40% of the country's total export earnings in 1977.
Agricultural export commodities are all sensitive to world price fluctuations
and their relative share of total exports, in terms of export value, varies
from year to year, particularly in the case of coffee, soybeans, sugar and
cacao. Agricultural imports are not of major importance apart from wheat, and
to a lesser extent, beans.
25.       Agriculture is highly developed in the South and Southeast regions
of Brazil but still faces serious development problems in the highly
populated Northeast. Much of the Center-West and North is still relatively
empty but is rapidly being colonized. The technical constraints to increas-
ing agricultural production in the Northeast, North and Center-West create a
need for priority programs of agricultural research and extension for those
regions. The former is being addressed by the Brazilian Enterprise for



- 9 -
Agricultural Research (EMBRAPA) for which a Bank loan of US$40 million was
approved in 1976 1/.
Northeast, Center-West and North Regions
26.       The Northeast, Center-West and North regions of Brazil, the areas in
which the proposed agricultural extension project would be focussed, account
for about 27% of Brazil's agricultural production, but for 40% of Brazil's
population and 82% of Brazil's land area. In the Northeast, about 60% of the
population live in rural areas, and agriculture provides about 33% of regional
product; rural per capita income in the Northeast is only about one-fourth
of Brazil's average per capita income. The region's agriculture is relatively
diversified, the main activities being the commercial production of sugarcane
and cocoa in the coastal Zona de Mata, cotton and sisal in the semi-arid zones
and cattle and the subsistence production of rice, beans, maize and cassava
throughout the region. During the last ten years agricultural production grew
at an average annual rate around 4%, with growth mostly attributable to the
increase in cultivated areas, especially in the frontier states where new
areas could be colonized readily. Agricultural yields in the region are some
25% below the average yields in Brazil; traditional production techniques, an
inadequate extension service, insufficient economic and social infrastructure,
and weak public institutions have kept agricultural productivity low despite
considerable efforts toward improvement.
27.       Much of the Nort'heast is semi-arid, with periodic serious droughts
and generally poor soils. 2/ The problems of reducing the incidence of poverty
in the region are further compounded by a skewed distribution of land ownership.
Less than 1% of the total number of farm establishments account for 40% of the
area, and in some areas up to 80% of the rural labor force owns no land at
all, though this proportion varies considerably within the Northeast. Past
government programs to the rural population have been focussed on public works
such as small dams and ponds in drought-prone areas. Other initiatives by the
Government include the establishing of a Northeast development superintendency
(SUDENE) in 1958 to act as the principal coordinating agency for development
activities in the region, the BNB for financing investment in agriculture,
industry and certain pubilc utilities, and fiscal and other incentives for
developing both industry and agriculture. More recently, the POLONORDESTE
program (see para. 30) is mobilizing the energies of various government bodies
in programs directed toward improving the productivity of the rural poor.
However, new employment opportunities have not kept pace with population
increases, and many have sought to increase their incomes by migration from
rural to urban areas and from the Northeast to the more industrialized
Center-South of Brazil.
1/   Loan No. 1249-BR of June 23, 1976.
2/   Readers are directed to "Rural Development Issues and Options in North-
east Brazil" (Report No. 665a-BR dated June 23, 1975).



- id -
28.       The settlement and agricultural development of the Center-West 1/
of Brazil is relatively recent. Over the past two decades the region's popu-
lation growth has averaged 5.6% per annum; its rural population growth in the
1960s averaged 3.2% annually, compared to 0.7% for Brazil as a whole. Over
half of the region's labor force is employed in agricultural activities and
some 37% of net regional product is provided by the agricultural sector. The
region is a major producer of beef and rice (22% of Brazil's beef production
and 27% of rice) and is becoming an increasingly important source of cotton,
soya, wheat, groundnuts and maize. While agricultural development in this
region has been characterized mainly by increases in the area under culti-
vation (the share of the region in the total area under cultivation in Brazil
rose from 3% in 1950 to just over 7% by 1970), longer term development will
also depend very much on the satisfactory economic solution (through improved
farm inputs and systems) of the technical problems in developing permanent
cultivation in view of various difficult soil characteristics such as aluminum
toxicity and high acidity. Another key aspect in sustained agricultural devel-
opment of this large area will be the adequate parallel development of trans-
port and marketing infrastructure and of technical support services.
29.       The North or Amazon area presents yet another facet of Brazil's
agricultural development. While the region has been subject to some new
settlement over the last decade, as new roads were opened, the population remains
only a very small fraction of Brazil's total (around 4%) and population density
is very low (about l per km2). While the importance of the region as a producer
of such commodities as beef and black pepper has increased over recent years,
its production of natural rubber has fallen far behind Brazil's domestic needs,
largely as a result of the inability to control disease in cultivated plantings.
Relatively little is known about the soils of the region and the technical
problems associated with establishing permanent cultivation while satisfactorily
preserving the ecological balance.
Agricultural Development Policy
30.       In recent years growth in agricultural production has been substantial
but has been due more to expansion of land under cultivation than to improved
productivity. However, the Government is now taking measures aimed at a more
efficient exploitation of Brazil's agricultural potential, which include not
only programs to increase the areas under production but also programs to
increase productivity, particularly among smaller farmers. Acknowledging the
urgency of increasing the productivity and incomes of the rural poor, as well
as to increase production generally, the Government has: (i) allocated
substantial public resources to incorporate new areas into production through
programs such as PIN (the National Integration Program) and PROTERRA (the
Program for Land Settlement and Stimulus to Agro-Industry in the North and
1/   Readers are directed to "Settlement and Agricultural Development of
Brazil's Central-West Region" (Report No. 1435-BR, dated July 25, 1977).



- 11 -
Northeast) and through desiLgnation and development of regional development
"poles" in the North and Center-West, under the POLAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO
programs; (ii) promoted a significant expansion in the supply of agricultural
credit, and of other production incentives (e.g., PROAGRO and PROTERRA, and
the program for use of agricultural lime (PROCAL)); (iii) initiated special
regional programs such as POLONORDESTE, established in 1974 to improve small
farmers' productivity in the Northeast through the preparation and implement-
ation of integrated rural development projects in selected micro-regions;
(iv) promoted specific crop and livestock production programs, such as the
programs for pasture (PROPE.C) and herd development (PRONAR) and the programs
to encourage cacao (CEPLAC) and sugar production (PLANALSUCAR); and (v) re-
organized the key federal research and extension services, and taken steps
to provide for their integration and strengthening.
31.       One important aspect of the Government's agricultural policy is its
practice of encouraging a Large volume of agricultural credit at subsidized
interest rates. For most of Brazil these rates now vary between 13% and 21%
per annum without monetary correction, which in Brazil's highly inflationary
environment means that they are highly negative in real terms. In the
POLONORDESTE program, the standard rate is now 10% without monetary correc-
tion. Credit for fertilizier purchase is interest free. The subsidized
interest rate system was originally introduced in Brazil some years ago as
a means of compensating the agricultural sector for adverse terms of trade
resulting from high prices for fertilizer, machinery and other inputs. The
subsidized rates were also intended to provide an incentive to expand agri-
cultural production and, in the case of the Northeast, to give special help
to a less developed part of the country. The main institutions extending
agricultural credit, the Banco do Brasil and the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil,
are able to extend this credit on subsidized terms by virtue of large interest-
free deposits which public agencies place with them, so that the financial
burden of the subsidies is borne by the public sector as a whole, rather than
by individual financial institutions. However, the system has severe disadvan-
tages, including possible leakages from the agricultural sector into other,
lower priority sectors, the inequity of granting large farmers access to sub-
sidized credit, and, in the case of larger agricultural enterprises, the
encouragement of unduly capital intensive techniques. The possible adverse
effects of such subsidized credit are much less in the case of credit to very
small farmers, such as those being assisted under the POLONORDESTE program,
because many of the beneficiaries are below the poverty level and those pro-
grams are being intensively supervised in a manner to ensure that the credit
is used for the intended purposes. Bank staff have for many years conducted
a dialogue with the Government on this matter, and the Government is now aware
of the serious disadvantages of the system. In the past year a few modifica-
tions have been made. Larger farmers are now required to finance at least
25% of on-farm investments with their own resources, and a sliding scale of
rates has been established charging larger farmers somewhat more than smaller
farmers. The basic rate in the Northeast has been increased from 7% to 10%.
The Government has felt that it was politically impossible to move further
at this time, and, therefore, most of the undesirable features of the program
still remain.



- 12 -
Agricultural Extension in Brazil - Historical Perspective
32.       Several commodity-oriented producer organizations have provided
limited advisory services to their members since the early 1940s. The first
statewide extension service to be established in Brazil was the office of
Coordination of Integral Technical Assistance (CATI) in the State of Sao
Paulo. This was followed, in 1949, by the formation of the first Credit
and Rural Assistance Association (ACAR) in the State of Minas Gerais, based
on extension methodology which had been successful in the United States,
which was subsequently copied by other states. In 1956, the Brazilian Rural
Credit and Assistance Association (ABCAR) was established to integrate all
existing state services into one national system. The ABCAR system was
intended to provide general extension services, but in practice concentrated
largely on advising farmers on the use of credit and the preparation of credit
applications. The state ACARs also initiated programs to improve local
health and nutrition standards. By 1965, the ABCAR system had established
254 local offices with 652 technicians, and by 1974 it had grown to
1,400 local offices and 4,400 technicians, assisting about 344,000 farmers.
In general, the ABCAR system was quite successful in its broad approach to
agricultural extension, but it suffered from lack of continuity in financing
arid frequent changes of policy and personnel.
Present Status of Agricultural Extension
33.       In the early 1970s, the Government took a series of measures to
strengthen agricultural support services, vesting full responsibility therefor
in the Ministry of Agriculture. As a part of these efforts, in February 1974,
the Government established the Brazilian Enterprise for Technical Assistance
and Rural Extension (EMBRATER) as a government-owned corporation linked to
the Ministry of Agriculture, to replace ABCAR, and the old state ACARs were
renamed EMATERs. The creation of EMBRATER was intended as a means to help
ensure continuity of funding to the state extension services (EMATERs), and
to guide, promote and coordinate technical assistance programs. The estab-
lishment of EMBRATER followed by two years the earlier reorganization of
the Brazilian agricultural research system through the formation of EMBRAPA in
1972, also as a government-owned corporation under the Ministry of Agriculture,
to assume national responsibility for the coordination and promotion of
agricultural research. In recognition of the critical importance of coordina-
tion between the agricultural research and extension functions, the Brazilian
Government also established a National Commission for Agricultural Research
and Technical Assistance (COMPATER), with responsibility for synchronizing,
reviewing and coordinating the programs of both EMBRATER and EMBRAPA, and
ensuring that they are responsive to national development goals. COMPATER is
a broadly based body chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and having as its
members, the presidents of EMBRATER and EMBRAPA as well as representatives
from the Central Bank, the National Farmers Confederation, the National
Agricultural Worker Federation and agro-industrial interests from the private
sector. The entire extension structure is referred to as the National
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension System (SIBRATER).



- 13 -
34.       The formation of EMBRAPA has led to a much more centralized adminis-
trative structure for research than existed previously, but this is not the
case with extension, and the state EMATERs, while affiliated with EMBRATER,
retain much of the autonomy of their predecessors, the old state ACARs.
While the EMATERs will continue to implement extension programs according to
local circumstances, it is envisaged that EMBRATER will have an increasingly
important role in the planning, coordinating, financing and monitoring of
extension programs on a national scale. It is one of the main purposes of the
proposed agricultural extension project to provide for the institutional
strengthening which will enable EMBRATER to fill this role effectively.
35.       In 1977 there were about 7,000 field technicians in the SIBRATER
system, reaching approximately 565,000 farm families. Each extension agent
was contacting about 80 farmers on average, primarily to supervise agricul-
tural credit. Given an estimated 4.9 million agricultural properties, only
about 12% were receiving extension services. There is an obvious need to
both improve and expand the services being provided, and it is envisaged that
by use of additional facilities and new methods (including, inter alia, group
methods and the use of audio-visual aids), the efficiency of extension agents
would increase under the proposed agricultural extension project by about 75%,
resulting in contact of an average of 140 families per extension agent.
Bank Participation in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
36.       The proposed loan for an agricultural extension project would be
the thirteenth for the development of Brazil's agricultural sector. The
Bank has made two loans, totalling US$66 million, for livestock development;
three amounting to US$167 million to support agro-industry and grain storage
credit programs; one of US$6.7 million for the Alto Turi Land Settlement
project in the State of Maranhao; one of US$23 million for the Lower Sao
Francisco Polders project; one of US$40 million for an agricultural research
project; one of US$42 million for the Minas Gerais Rural Development project
and three for integrated rural development projects under the POLONORDESTE
program (US$12 million for the project in Rio Grande do Norte, US$17 million
for the project in Ceara and US$24 million for the project in Paraiba).
Out of these 12 projects, 5 are in the Northeast while another includes
the Northeast among the regions principally benefitted. In addition,
there have been three loans, totalling US$196 million, for fertilizer produc-
tion, and a loan of US$19 million for a nutrition research and development
project, which are having a, direct impact on agricultural production and
development of the rural sector.
37.       Implementation of the several integrated rural development projects
is progressing satisfactorily, although there have been some delays, now being
resolved, in the provision of counterpart funding. The Agro-Industries credit
projects have been delayed as a result of the imposition of credit ceilings
in 1977 as a part of the Government's anti-inflation program, but commitments
have resumed in 1978. The livestock projects were cancelled as a result of a
Government decision to introduce subsidized credit programs for this subsector,



- 14 -
and the Grain Storage project was terminated and partially cancelled for the
same reason. The agricultural research project is proceeding well, with
staffing in advance of project goals. Besides additional rural development
projects in the Northeast, there are under preparation a rural credit project
in the Northeast, and a second irrigation project in the Lower Sao Francisco
Valley.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
38.       The project is designed to strengthen, over a four-year period, the
federal and state institutions responsible for providing agricultural extension
services, in support of the Brazilian Government's on-going programs to increase
agricultural production, significantly speed development of the less developed
areas of the country, and improve the productivity of farmers, particularly
small farmers. The Bank's support for the project was originally requested by
the Minister of Agriculture in January 1976. A Bank identification mission
visited Brazil in June 1976, followed by a preparation mission in March of
1977, and an appraisal mission in June/July 1977. The project was prepared by
EMBRATER with the assistance of the state EMATERs and the ASTERs in the terri-
tories. Certain changes in the project were reviewed by a post-appraisal
Bank mission in November 1977. Negotiations took place in Washington from
April 10 to 12, 1978. The Brazilian delegation was led by Dr. Renato Simplicio
Lopes, President, EMBRATER, and included representatives of the Secretariat of
Planning in the Presidency of the Republic and the Ministry of Finance. A
supplemental project data sheet, including a timetable of key events and a
summary of special conditions, is presented in Annex III. A report, entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report - Brazil - Agricultural Extension I Project," No.
1877-BR, dated May 3, 1978, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.
EMBRATER
39.       EMBRATER is managed by a president and two directors, appointed by
the President of the Republic, and has four main operating departments
(coordenadorias) responsible respectively for systems development, planning,
operations, and administration and finance. The state EMATERs and ASTERs in
the territories are organized along lines parallel to EMBRATER's organization,
thus facilitating commmunication and coordination among the national, state,
regional and local levels. EMBRATER depends almost wholly on federal govern-
ment budgetary allocations or government-arranged financing to carry out its
operations, while the EMATERs/ASTERs depend on federal funds channelled
through EMBRATER, federal funds under other programs such as POLAMAZONIA,
POLOCENTRO and POLONORDESTE, state budgetary allocations and fees collected
for the supervision of agricultural credit. The SIBRATER budget for 1977
amounted to US$147.2 million equivalent, of which US$134.7 million was
allocated to the EMATERs/ASTERs, and US$12.5 million allocated to EMBRATER



- 15 -
headquarters. The 1978 SIBRATER budget is expected to increase to about
US$210 mil i n equivalent, of which about US$189 million equivalent would be
allocated to the EMATERs/ASTERs, and US$21 million equivalent to EMBRATER.
Approach to Extension
40.       The SIBRATER system of extension at the farm level includes four
kinds of programs: (a) crop programs, involving some 38 crops; (b) producer-
specific programs, such as low-income farmer programs or programs for
artisanal fishermen; (c) production support programs, based on cooperatives,
use of agricultural inputs such as improved seed, fertilizer, credit and
training for rural workers: and (d) social welfare programs. Many of these
programs are closely interwoven, such as, for example, social welfare programs
for low-income farmers.
41.       In the three years since assuming control of SIBRATER at the national
level, EMBRATER has not imposed a uniform approach to delivery of extension
services at the field leveL. Nor is it expected to do so until many of the
problems of Brazil's rapidLy evolving agricultural sector have been more
adequately studied and alternative delivery systems tested. The training and
visit system 1/, for example, which has been so successful in other countries,
is known and has been studied in Brazil.   However, partly because of a lack
of necessary technical facilities and partly because of the emphasis on credit
supervision (which by definition involves one-to-one contact), this approach
has not yet been widely accepted in Brazil. EMBRATER is, however, aware that
to reach more small farmers, greater emphasis should be given to group methods.
Given the multiplicity of programs involving the extension service having
different degrees of federal and state priority, the wide variety in popula-
tion densities (from a high of about 44 per km2 in the Southeast to a low of
about 1 per km2 in the North) and in farming systems in the different regions,
EMBRATER plans to carry out studies and trial programs before introducing any
single method on a large scale. The studies of methods included in the
project are expected to produce effective delivery systems suited to the local
conditions prevailing in different regions and to different classes of agricul-
tural producers.
Project Objectives and Components
42.       The major aims of the project are:
(i) to improve the continuity of funding to both EMBRATER and its
affiliated EMATERs/ASTERs, in order to provide them with the
financial strength needed to improve and expand extension
services to farmers;
1/   See "Agricultural Extension - The Training and Visit System" by Daniel
Benor and James Q. Harrison, published by the World Bank in May 1977.



- 16 -
(ii) to make extension services available to about 1.3 million agri-
cultural producers by 1981;
(iii) to provide better access to current information on research,
marketing, credit and production incentive programs;
(iv) to improve communication with farmers through inter alia testing
and evaluation of group methods, introduction of audio-visual
aids, support for cooperative efforts and greater availability
of educational bulletins and pamphlets covering all aspects of
agricultural production;
(v) to strengthen the technical, planning, monitoring, evaluation
and administrative capabilities of the staffs of EMBRATER and
the EMATERs/ASTERs; and
(vi)  more generally, to raise the productivity and income levels of
agricultural producers, small farmers in particular, with special
emphasis on the priority regions of the Northeast, North, and
Center-West.
In pursuance of these objectives, the project includes:
(i) programs to improve and strengthen existing state agricultural
extension service facilities by providing additional staff,
library documentation and current data services, audio-visual
aids, training facilities, offices and facilities for crop
production and small-scale (artisanal) fisheries cooperatives;
(ii)  development of technical and administrative staff capability through
pre-service and in-service training, specialized short courses and
graduate training for selected senior staff;
(iii)  technical assistance to the agricultural extension agencies and
studies on extension methods; and
(iv)  specific operational programs oriented toward low-income farmers,
such as research to develop new production systems and field
demonstrations to disseminate improved agronomic practices;
support for artisanal fisheries communities; and establishment
of pilot crop production and fisheries cooperatives.
43.       The project supplements a project supported by a loan from the
Inter-American Development Bank, which is providing assistance to the Govern-
ment's research and extension programs in the South and Southeast regions.
44.       Investments under the project would be made under three main catego-
ries:



- 17 -
(a) Capital Investments: (i) construction of 8 training centers,
10 offices for state EMATERs, base-operation complexes for 20
artisanal fishing communities, and offices and cold storage
facilities for fisheries cooperatives to be formed in 10 such
communities; (ii) purchase of land for 40 of the above 48
building sites; (iii) procurement of about 4,260 field vehicles,
trucks and small buses; (iv) equipment and furnishing for 10
state EMATER offices and 24 libraries; (v) printing and
communications equipment for about 600 communications terminals;
and (vi) farm and fisheries equipment for 8 training centers,
10 production systems implementation units, and 20 artisanal
fishing communities.
(b) Training and Techniical Assistance: (i) annual in-service
training courses for 13,500 permanent staff; (ii) pre-service
training for about 4,725 incoming staff 1/; (iii) about
380 specialized shlort courses for technical and adminis-
trative staff; (iv) 210 fellowships for senior specialists
including 174 at ithe MSc level and 36 at the PhD level; 75
man-years of consulting services in administration, monitoring
and evaluation, training and human resource development,
architecture and engineering, extension methods research,
communications, fiscal management, and data processing; and
(v) 12 studies on extension methods (4 such studies to be
carried out in each of 3 states).
(c) Incremental Establishment Costs: salaries, materials and supplies
and operating expenses for about 3,730 incremental staff over the
four-year project period. Field personnel of the EMATERs/ASTERs
would be increased from about 7,080 (1977) to 9,610 (1981), or by
about 36%, while total personnel would increase from about 14,760
(1977) to 18,490 (1981), an increase of about 25%. The emphasis of
this component is on strengthening technical capability and coverage
in the field, and accordingly most of the new staff would be field
or program technicians (about 2,690) or technical support staff
(about 370). The remainder (about 670) would be clerical or admin-
istrative staff. About 100 additional administrative staff would be
provided for EMBRATER headquarters, mainly to execute new programs
in data processing, communications and audio-visual aids and for
supervision of expanded field programs such as farming production
systems, field demonstrations, assistance to farming and fisheries
cooperatives and marketing studies.
Proiect Costs
44.       Total project costs would amount to US$284.9 million equivalent, of
which US$231.6 million would represent base costs and US$53.3 million physical
and price contingencies. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at about
1/   About 30% more than net incremental staff to cover normal attrition
during the project period.



- 18 -
US$40.4 million, or 14% of total costs. A summary of project costs is set
out in the project summary above (see p. ii). Physical contingencies have
been estimated at 4% of baseline costs and price contingencies at 19% of
baseline costs. Price contingencies were calculated in US$ terms as follows:
for civil works, 9% per year in 1978-79 and 8% per year in 1980-81; for
equipment, 7.5% per year in 1978-79 and 7% per year in 1980-81; for materials,
supplies and salaries, 7% per year for the period 1978-81. Baseline costs
were estimated at June/July 1977 prices and adjusted to reflect November 1977
prices.
Financing Plan
46.       The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million would be for 15 years
including three years of grace and would finance 35% of total project costs.
The federal government, through budgetary allocations to EMBRATER, would
finance US$111.0 million or 39% of total project costs and the remaining
US$73.9 million (26%) would be financed from state and territorial budgetary
allocations and other sources (such as fees). In a country like Brazil, which
is making a vigorous effort to mobilize domestic resources, it appears appro-
priate for the Bank to give some assistance in the financing of local currency
expenditures on projects which, like the present one, have very high priority
and yet have a very low foreign exchange content (in the present case, 14%).
If the Bank is to be effective in supporting projects of this kind, having a
significant impact on the agricultural production of basic food crops and the
welfare of the rural poor, it seems reasonable for it to contribute at least
35% of the costs even though this entails financing some local currency
expenditures.
47.       The government would be the borrower.  The proceeds of the loan and
all other funds required for the project (other than those to be allocated by
the respective states directly to the EMATERs) would be made available to
EMBRATER, and through EMBRATER, to the EMATERs/ASTERs. The government and
EMBRATER would enter into appropriate contractual arrangements with the states
and territories and with the respective EMATERs/ASTERs under which, inter alia,
each EMATER/ASTER would submit to EMBRATER for approval, by October 31 of each
year, its annual budget for the following year, and under which each state and
territory would allocate adequate funds to its EMATER/ASTER to cover the
EMATER/ASTER financing requirements under the project which were not covered
from the Bank loan or federal government allocations or other sources (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agree-
ment).
Project Administration
48.       EMBRATER would be fully responsible for the formulation of policies
and directives under the project to ensure that project implementation achieves
the desired objectives. Implementation at the field level would be the respon-
sibility of the associated EMATERs/ASTERs. EMBRATER would furnish to the Bank
for review and comment (i) by June 30 of each year, appropriate guidelines
regarding priority programs, regions and target groups and incremental staffing
requirements for use by the EMATERs/ASTERs in connection with the preparation
of their annual operational budgets; and (ii) by November 30 of each year, the



proposed programs (PROATERs) and related budgets of the EMATERs/ASTERs for the
following year (section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement). In addition
EMBRATER would (i) by June 30, 1980 (by which time approximately half of the
proposed loan is expected to bc committed), review with the Brn- progress made
under the project and the extent to which project objectives are being achieved
and (ii) ir' oduce such cbLanges in project content or mode of implementation
as the Bank sihall reasonably request in the light of such review (Section 2.12
of the draft Project Agreement).
49.       As both EMBRATER and the EMATERs/ASTERs have basically the same
administrative structure (see para. 39), and there is an easy and direct flow
of communication between the corresponding levels of administration, no orga-
nizational changes are proposed for the purposes of the project. However,
there would be appointed a Project Coordinator, within the existing Technical
Support Unit (TSU) of EMBRATER's Operations Department, reporting directly to
EMBRATER's Director of Operations. The Project Coordinator would be respon-
sible for monitoring project progress, with the necessary technical and
administrative support for this purpose to be supplied by EMBRATER's existing
Planning, Systems Development, Operations and Administration and Finance
Departments. The Project Coordinator would oversee the preparation, through
the existing monitoring and evaluation unit of EMBRATER's Planning Department,
of project progress reporits which would be furnished to the Bank at six-month
intervals (Section 2.09(b)(i) of the draft Project Agreement). The Project
Coordinator would also have primary responsibility for the preparation of a
project completion and evaluation report within six months of project comple-
tion and EMBRATER would furnish such report to the Bank (Section 2.09(e) of
the draft Project Agreement).
Civil Works Program
50.       The supervision of construction of the civil works component would
be the responsibility of the Technical Support Unit (TSU) of EMBRATER's
Operations Department. To ensure that the civil works program is adequately
supervised and that implementation is commenced at an early stage, EMBRATER
would engage civil engineering/architectural consultants with qualifications
and experience and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to assist
the TSU in the review of site development plans and detailed construction plans,
the preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of bids and supervision of
construction (Section 2.04(a)(i) of the draft Project Agreement). EMBRATER
would also furnish to the Bank for its review and comment: (i) by August 1,
1978, the site developmerLt plans for the civil works construction program under
the project to be carried out in the remainder of 1978, and (ii) by November
30 of each year, the site development plans for the civil works construction
program under the project to be carried out during the following year (Section
2.09(b)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement). New construction is considered
necessary for most if not all project facilities. However, the project makes
provision for the renovation or expansion of existing buildings, where,
consistent with the requirements of efficiency, economies can thereby be
achieved. Where civil works under the project involves construction other
than new construction, the Bank's prior approval would be sought (Section 2.13
of draft Project Agreement).



- 20 -
Staff Training and Technical Assistance
51.       It is one of the main objectives of the project to achieve a very
substantial strengthening of the permanent staff of the SIBRATER system. The
technical assistance and training programs have been designed both to assist
EMBRATER and EMATER/ASTER senior staffs to manage the rapid expans_on of the
extension system and to help offset the lack of adequately trained extension
personnel during the early years of project execution, when the training
program would exert a depleting effect. Accordingly, about 75 man-years of
consultancy services have been included in the project for EMBRATER (38 man-
years) and the EMATERs/ASTERs (37 man-years), in the following areas: admin-
istration and organization (9 man-years); monitoring and evaluation (6 man-
years); training and human resource development (16 man-years); supervision of
civil works program (12 man-years); methodological research (10 man-years);
communications (16 man-years); fiscal management (2 man-years); and data
processing (4 man-years). Of these, about 60% (40 man-years) are expected to
be foreign and about 40% (35 man-years) local. The estimated cost of the
technical assistance, averaging some US$6,250 per man-month, covers salaries,
other benefits and housing, shipping and travel expenses, and is based on
recent EMBRATER and comparable international experience in the contracting of
specialists of the high caliber required. Additionally, long- and short-term
fellowships, specialized courses, and extensive pre- and in-service training
programs have been included (see para. 43). In view of the difficulty of
locating competent specialists abroad, and of arranging and monitoring the
overseas training, EMBRATER would employ one or more agencies with qualifica-
tions and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to
assist it in obtaining technical assistance services from abroad and in
administering the overseas fellowship program included in the project (Section
2.04(b) of draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
52.       Due to the dispersed nature of the civil works under the project
and the relatively small size of the individual construction contracts (on
average about US$1.0 million each for the training centers and EMATER offices,
and about US$150,000 each for other facilities), these would be contracted
through competitive bidding advertised nationally in the case of training
centers and EMATER offices and locally in the case of other facilities (about
US$17.5 million in the aggregate). Foreign bidders would not be excluded,
although they are unlikely to be interested. Work by force account would be
permitted in some remote areas. About 4,260 vehicles (US$18.65 million) would
be procured under the project, over a period of four years, for use in widely
dispersed locations. Since vehicles would be purchased in small lots, and
adequate maintenance and availability of spares is of critical importance,
locally manufactured vehicles of types already used by government departments
are preferred. Therefore, contracts for vehicles would be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
which are satisfactory. Many international manufacturers of vehicles are
established in Brazil, and locally manufactured vehicles are competitive.
Farm and fisheries equipment (US$4.0 million) and office equipment and



- 21 -
furniture (US$5.8 milion) would be required at widely dispersed locations and
contracts for those items would also be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures. Printing,
audio-visual and communications equipment (US$10.7 million) is often highly
specialized and after-sales service is of critical importance for such
items. Since servicing must be available locally, local competitive bidding
under procedures acceptable to the Bank would be followed for items estimated
to cost US$10,000 or more, and prudent shopping would be followed for items of
lesser value. Library equipment and furnishings (US$1.0 million), which are
locally manufactured with a very competitive field of suppliers, would be
procured according to normal Government procedures which are satisfactory.
Technical assistance and training services valued at about US$19.0 million
equivalent would be provided either locally (about 60%) or from abroad (about
40%).
Disbursement
53.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the
direct foreign exchange expenditures for fellowships, consultancy services,
and any directly imported equipment (such disbursements are expected to amount
to about US$14.8 million); and (b) 35% of all other project expenditures
(US$85.2 million) including incremental staff salaries but not including land
purchase and other incremental establishment costs (materials, supplies and
other operating costs). DiLsbursements against salaries of incremental staff
would be made on an aggregate basis for the SIBRATER system as a whole and
would reimburse the salaries of field or program technicians, technical
support staff and clerical and administrative staff incremental to those
employed as of December 31, 1977, on the basis of appropriate documentation to
be furnished to the Bank quarterly. The proposed loan would be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1982. It would be a condition of disbursement against expenditures
under the project of any EMATER/ASTER: (i) that contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank have been entered into between the Ministry of
Agriculture, EMBRATER, the state government concerned and the EMATER/ASTER
regarding the carrying out of the EMATER/ASTER's portion of the project, the
submission for approval by EMBRATER of the EMATER/ASTER's annual budgets, and
the allocation of adequate resources from the state to cover the EMATER/ASTER's
expenditures under the project not covered from the proposed loan or federal
government allocations or other sources (see para. 47); and (ii) in the case
of expenditures for civil works, that EMBRATER has employed civil engineering/
architectural consultants (see para. 50), and that the Bank has received
evidence satisfactory to it that EMBRATER or such EMATER/ASTER owns or has
other adequate rights in and to the land on which the project facility is to
be constructed (see draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(c)).
Accounts and Audit
54.       EMBRATER's accounts are audited annually by satisfactory external
auditors. EMBRATER would maintain separate accounts for all expenditures
under the project, and furnish to the Bank, within four months of the end of
each fiscal year, copies of its audited accounts.



Project Beneficiaries
55.       The direct beneficiaries of the project would be the additional
735,000 farmers receiving exteusion services for the first time.  All farmers
and farm labor represented by the total of 1.3 million properties which would
receive 4.!p 'ed agricultural extension services under the project would also
benefit. About two-thirds of total investments under the project would be
made in the three priority regions of the Northeast, North and Center-West,
where the -r it maj,rity of Brazil's rural poor live.  Likewise, about two-
thirds of total investments under the project, and about two-thirds of the
farming production systems and demonstration field trials included in the
project, would be targeted at smaller farmers and artisanal fishermen, the
great majority of whose incomes are below the relative poverty level. In
addition to farmers benefiting directly under the project, a larger number
would benefit indirectly through the mass media and contact with those
benefiting directly.
Economic Rate of Return
56.       As for similar agricultural research and extension projects, it is
impossible to calculate the precise economic return which may be directly
attributable to such investments, inter alia, because increases in agricultural
production require several inputs in addition to new technology imparted by
the extension service. Nevertheless, a rough approximation of the economic
rate of return was calculated based upon the following assumptions: (i) the
projected rate of acceptance of new technology by the target group was conser-
vatively estimated at 50% by project year 12; (ii) increased production due to
technological innovation would commence in the second year; (iii) the six
representative crops chosen, i.e., beans, cassava, cotton, maize, rice and
sugarcane, are indicative of the production function for all crops grown;
and (iv) the yields of these crops are estimated to increase by 2.5% to 3%
annually as a result of the intensified extension activity. Based upon these
assumptions, the internal economic rate of return was found to be in the range
of 11% to 18%, with a return of about 14% considered to be most likely. This
compares to the estimated opportunity cost of capital of about 11%.
Social Benefits
57.       There has been a growing awareness in recent years, inside and
outside official circles, of the need to raise the income of the small farmer
and the rural poor who work in agriculture, but have limited land resources.
Agricultural price policies and subsidized farm inputs have tended in the past
to benefit more the medium and large farmer than the small farmer and share-
cropper who find it difficult to provide collateral for credit arrangements.
Proportionately, the services of extension agents in implementing such policies
may also have favored the former group. The Government is working, inter alia,
through integrated rural development projects, to make credit increasingly
available to small and landless farmers. Likewise, several programs under the
proposed agricultural extension project are designed to redirect in favor of
the smaller farmer the previous bias in favor of larger farmers. These
include the programs for farming production systems, field demonstration



- 23 -
plots, and the cooperative programs, which would focus on better farm manage-
ment techniques, the use of low-cost inputs, and on the provision of rural
health and welfare services designed to improve the living standards of the
rural poor.
Risks and Uncertainties
58.       Agricultural extension is primarily an educative process.  As such,
it carries the risks inherent to such process, i.e., there is no certainty
regarding the extent to which knowledge imparted will be applied. The pro-
visions in the project for monitoring and evaluation (see para. 49) should
alert the authorities to any need to adjust extension methods to improve
acceptance of new technologies. There is also a risk that EMBRATER and the
EMATERs/ASTERs may fail to develop their human resources adequately through
recruitment and-training as required to carry out, over a relatively short
period, a large program which is wide in geographic scope and administratively
complex. The provisions for technical assistance and training included in
the project and phasing of the incremental staffing have all been planned so
as to minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and EMBRATER, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special disbursement conditions are described in para. 53.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 3, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 24 _
uaNIX I
Paso I
UEAU|L                 * ISCOAL   Nb)IC6?OE   041   SMU "RT
LAND AREA (THtOU                          rl .... ---.... -.---.------.....................  .  ... -------.----
7;7;~..,..                          ,          ,          AZIL   mn        eNEF                          NCE COUNTIECS lt9701
7771^       8512.                                              M flT  RICECfJ
AIRTC.       2D29,6                          1960        1970    EST14ATE             81f1CO            URUGUJ0          JAPAN*
SM' Pf"  C0'PTA (USS)                         1088        5so,n    31;4.O    * 79o.o*                     940,o4      2630,D
........ ............. 
POJPIUA174 AND VITAL 3T&TISTTCS
'OPULhYI'1.J tOtDaY§4    81110)              b69.8       92,8       110.0 /a               50,4           2.7         104.3
85AULAT1TJ4 Ot4SITY
E   sOJR*r KM. *4.0                                    11,0        13.0 /a               26.0          15.0        250.0
PER *0. Km. ACRICJLT?118L LAND             44.0        q9O0        54.0 7m'              52.0         IND        17 44.0
VITlL STATTSTTCS
CZ11g: 80T04 P4TE (/T7OU, AV)             40.4         is,4        37.1                  83.4         12.I          17.5
e010  rbTw RnTE C/T2'401wI,                t1.7         9.9 *                            10.2           R.2          7.1
T14F90T muOTALITY RTF8 (dTOIJ1           180. 0      110.0             ,                 6.5             .,         13.1
LIfE EIPECTANCY AT 881T  (9Y3S)           56.0         59,4        bl,4 I2,8                           69,3         71,1
081sl 80'RlDUCYTl: 981                     2.b          2.6         ?.S                   3,i                  1       .0
*OPULAT0N'0. G0RWTH R9t8 (0)
TnTAL                                      Sn           2.9         2.9                   3,4           0.7           1.0
loll9 AN5,5                                            5,0          4.0                   4,8          1.2           *.0
J1qAN *2PiILATY'  CZ '14 1TTAL)              8. n        O560       59,1                  5S,7          IS. 1        88*4
89C ST0JCTURE (CPRCE4.l
0 To 14 YEARS                            *130        '42,0        £1.7                  4b62         28.3          24.0
IS T% 68 9848S                           5l.0         55, 55.0     55.1                  SO,I          b3,5        16,9
bS YF9 R 8 4£   OVER                        it.0        3.0         3.2                    5,7          8.2          7.1
AGE MFlEMFN CY 8AT?1                          0.9         0.8        0,                     1 n          0.6           0.5
!C4n4"T: nOFPtNoENcY o71n                       6          .b I,S      1.4 /b                2             1.0          0.6
8,41 V *LL4'4TNCG
ACCEPT'8O  (CU411LATTVF, 14iU)               ..      250.0           ..                  55--
ISCR4 (I nlr 9irR9E1     We4E9)             ..         1.6           .,                    ...
07101 t498a r>PCE  TiJUS.AJ01            72100,n   294tO,0         34100 0              10007,0        t020.4      53300,0
LARV1   POWE TN4 4GQIC.J17uE  CZ)            52.0        40,4         378 6 S.0                          17.0          19.0
J4E4PL1YFn tl CO0  LAVIN F0RCE.                           7.5          5,0                    .           6.0 /a        1,2
tNC7OE nTSTOTIBU,TJ
S'  P814478 yMT   4t  9ltRC'D  98.
4Ir'FST  5S  OF W4OSE40OLDS              39,0/a       35,0 L         ,,                 37.8          19.0 lb      18,2
WI14FST 20s oF H7USiMOL0S                 62.1         6 2.0 /a       .                    563.2       e1,5  /b      7.
LOWEST  20S OF W4JSEHDLDA                   3.5         ,0           : ..P                             4     b;       8
LOWEST  Go0  oF HOJS9wOLS                10.S3  a      0. __                            10 .2         14  2        22.3
197S0OTaTINT nF LAN3 )d90E9S9P
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.
t   0'0'1n a0 Tle 10t 30 7W9~95                ,,        45,0           ,,                  317*.
O i.cFl 9y 1S S   0L3   100 I a9  s            ..         1,5           ,,                   O,I  3
4EALTq £01 NU79T1T74
'ia'JLJYTi1. PFp vwy82C1£.,               ?170.0       191Q,0       1650.0 /             1480.0         680 o          60,0
87'ULATt0I   PER NOIi51-; PF18,D               ,,      3220,0lb  2920.0 /d               16200 /a   338t.0           280.0
'1P,1LATTI"  PEP 4cPITA'L  'FI              75,o        260.0        260.0                9o60,l        17n.0          80.0
DEP rA3ITA SUPPLY 7'
CALnOIrS (I Ir '40J1PE4Fljq1             f02,0          nq.o      115.0                 1 1.0         I  70       1 06.0
p0R1Te1   CQ&5s 4F4 )VI                   61 .0e       ba6.        67.0                  e,%.          96,0         76,0
.'c  ....01'.' idA4 , * '0D PJL9E       38A0        19.0           ,,                  2',0 /b      68.0          45,0
3EAT-  41TF (/43)UI A4%  .a                    .,           ..         ,.                                  1 3          1
EDJCATTEI,
*0 J  T 0£ 07   LL041   I'll,
£0 1JT00  04RY LE9  9'CVI                               83,0         0.                    ~9.
Paycaqy lC010L                            55.0                     86, 0                °4. 0        106.0        10 '0.0 
lErnmucl Y  SIL                           I- 11.0                  26.                  72.          57,0         91.0
YEFo I  s*""4cPJt
(00F9T  jOll 90   0  10ANDE: 0N LFL)                   1.t1, l.     1 ,                  12,I          12,0         12,n
VIt£T!,NsL FReOLL"EWT
et 111 SFClnNnA9Y)                        19.0         17.0        14,0 /d               24,0          21.0         20M0
3ILT LOTF8ACo RATE tl                       61.0        64. 0                              76.0         91.0          99. 0
HDJSIsC.
PEqISnNt pSO  04 (U9J49)                       ,.          1.0         1.1 Ic                2.2            *-          1.0
OCCUPIOS n40LLINGS .17TOUT
*1°E') W4TER (t)                             ,.        73,0Ic       66.2                b61,  Ic         ,.           5.0
4C0E9S TI ELECTRICITY
Z nF ALL DwELLIC3SI                          .         46.0        55.6                  59,o
0j*AL aOELLINGS C9481CTED
"7  0LE0tTPCyTY  10)                         .°0                    12i.5                28.0             .
COOS '.oTT07
.1&1  Or-;I"VCfPq (PRll 1w411  0PO)          66,0         t.,0        62.0                 276.0        3 6.0         551.0
D      7C0Cg  cD pq (PEP T1OlU P0wl           7. 0       2S,n         35.0                  24,0         4S.o          81.0
-OFCTQTCTly (K*.lYq PLO cap)                321.0       m91,0       64,0                  5b67.        762.0       0391.0
J.F..s%0I,T 0xG,yw PER CP. 1.3                             2 .7        2.5                   3.?           7.0         18.I
S0' "'s.S                                              ...o...E. ........4 7. .Ev.85.



-    25  -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTeS
Unleus otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 snd 1970 end for Most Recent Estiante between
1973 snd 1975.
*   GNP per capita data are based on World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
**  Japan has been selected am en objective country since the Brazilian Govsrsnent has shown particular intereat in Japan's development experience,
also the two governmente hav conducted joint studies to identify possible future economic problems of Brazil on the basis of the experience in
Japan.
BRAZIL      1960   /I  Economically active population.
1970    /a  Econcmically active populatio;    /b  Hospital personnel;    /c  Inside only.
MOST RECENT ESTmuTE    /   1976;          /b  Raitio cf population under 15 end 65 end over to total labor force;    /c  1972;    /d  1971;
Ia Inside only.
MEXICO      1970    /a  Including assistant nurses;    /b  1964-66;    /c  Inside only.
URUGUAY     1970    /a  Montevideo only;    /b  1967.
R13, August 2, 1977
DPEINITIONS O? SOCIAL IDICATOCS
Land Area (thou ko2)                                                                        Poculation per nucring person - Population divided by number of practicing
Total - Total surface arem comprising land area and inlancd water,                            m-le and feoale graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Asri. - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or pems-                   auxiliary persornel with training or experience.
nently fot crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie follow.                    PPulatt   Paer h-Puital bad - Pcpc1stion. divided by numbar of hospital bods
avaeilable in public and private general and specialised hospital and
CNP Par capita fUSS0  - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and establishments for
calculated by samei conversion  ithod as World Bank Atlasl (1973-75 basis);                 custodial and praventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Per   aPita supply of calories ft of requiraments) - Computed from energy
equivalent of net food aupplies availablee in country per capitae per day;
Population and vital statistic:                                                               available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less exports, and
population (id-year million)   As of July first:  if not available, average                   changes in stock  net supplies exclude animal feed, aseds, quantities used
of two end-year estimates; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                        in food procesaing and losss in distributioen; requirements were estima ted
by FAO based on physiological meads for normal activity anid health consid-
Population density - per square kc - Mid-year population per square kilometer                 aring environmental tmnperature, body weights, age and sex distributions of
(100 hectares) of total areas                                                               population, and allowing 107 for waste at household level.
Population density - per square ko of aricr  land - Computed as sbove for                   Per capita suPply of proteif (Rre  er day) - Protein content of par capita
agricultural land only.                                                                     net supply of fsod par day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
ments for a11 countries established by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                              provide for a minimumc allowance of 60 gros  of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate par thosand, aversae - Annusl live births per thousamd of                     20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gras  hould be animal
mid-year population; tan-year arithmetic  verages ending in 1960  nd 1970,                  protein; thes  standards are lower than those of 75 gram of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                              and 23 gras of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thousand. averaxe - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year               in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-yeararithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for mot recent estimate,                                        derived from animals  nd pulses in gras per day.
Infant nortality rats f/thou) - Annul deaths of infants under one year of sge               Death rate (/thou) ases 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                   years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth (vre) - Average number of years of life remaining at                 manutrition.
birth; oaually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                            Education
Grico   reproduction rate - Average number of live d-ughtec- a woman will bear              Adjlu ted enrollment ratio - Primary achool - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she oxperiencem  present age-specific                  cntag  of primary acheol-age populatiom; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                   universal  ducation, enrollment nay exceed 100% since aome pupils are below
Population growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of nid-year                  or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondsry school - Computed as above; secondary
Population growth rate (%) - urban - Computed like grewth rate of total                       education requires at least four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data among oountries.                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally sxcluded.
Urbas populetion (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different               Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total yeara of
definitions of urben areas may affect comparability of date among countries,                 schooling; at secondary level, vocational intrue tion my be partially or
Completely excluded.
Ase structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yeare), worktng.a-a(15-64 yours),                  vociseal enrotl_nt tI of sEcoodary) - Vocational inutitutio    itncIude
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of eid-year population                        technical, indu trial or other programs which operate independsntly or as
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                   depart nats of secondary institutions.
Of ages iS through h4.                                                                     Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adults (able to read sod write) as per-
Economic denendeocy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                    cetoge of total acdult Population aed 1I yeaers and over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 yearn.
Pmmilv planning - *cnePtors (cooulative  thou) - CumulatIve number of acceptora              Housing
of birth-control devices under auspices of national family planning prograq                Persons per room (urban) - Aversge number of persona per room in ocupied
since inception,                                                                             conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
Family planning - users (7. of maarried women) - Percentages of married women of               structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing ege (15-44 ye-se) who  o.t  birth-cont-ol devices to all mcild               occupied dwellings without piped water (%) - Occupied conventional dwellings
wonen in sa    age grop.                                                                     in urban sod rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
55 Percentage of all occupied dwellings.
E.Impl,eent                                                                                  kccess to el,ectricity (7, Of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with,
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persons, including armed                    electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in  rban and
forces and unemployed but excluding houaewivei , students,  tc.; definitions                 rural areas.
in various countries are not comparable.                                                  Rural dvellings connected to electricity (b) - Computed as sbore for rural
la.bor ~forc  in agriculue(.  - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (% of labor force) - Inemployed are usually defined as persons who                Casumption
are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, remained out              Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum period not exceeding one                  to general public per thousand of population; eocludes unlicensed receiv
week; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                   in countries and in years when registration of radio sete vn in effect;
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample                 data for recent years may not he comparable since most countries abolished
surveys, compolsory unemployment insurance                                                   licensing.
Pass:enger care (per thou pool - P-asoenger cars comprise motor rare nesting
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                     lees  than eight persona; exPclude  ambulances, hearses and military
received by richest 57, richest 207., poorest 20%, sod poorest 40. of house-                  ehicles,
holds.                                                                                     Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial,  oemercial
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capits, generally
Distribution of land owership - Percentages of laud owned by wealthiest Ill,                   based on production data, without allowance for losses in grids hut allo--
and poorest 10  of land owners.                                                              ing for imports and exports of electricity.
Norewspint .(ks/yr per cap) - Per capita annual cosuption in kilogrsea
Health and Nutrition                                                                           estimate  from domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by  umber of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.



T-141  ~- W      *= A uu.d4w     19d9.9...o 9-.            T .Awp~     /
I:,  7i1                                    -11      A                   - --    'I,
181: aIt           C~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9'                                                               99£*"I".~ 
0.£09                                         (                           *   ''I99o90*6 
0-4-                                          .110.0            u~~~~~          ~ ~~~~~~~.6  0.0it"  0   OA&                                     A" *09           C
A-$  O:f.  6:1                                                                              coli~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  9v1          09'o             99C                                              6l6. 
(91                1.9               01i               99a                                             .......69     VI~~   '6
9.19            V909              6         09909                                                -'11*3    - 
11  Vt                                    au               ti ~~~~~~P1  99      99                0.1 I'*6                                           ~     3
06£  (0£  9'(9  *,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9oo9..0~~~~~~~~~  *9'(         ((£0             190               ((90              9(90  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~~i.--*..-oi   '9i -U41 -g~f    -
6*9C  9*((  ('69       ('-1111-) 9~~~6..069(2  'C                                                     990              090                (00              9C0                    09.0 .1C  ..o  96-09 0*0 96l9t C,((
(9~~~~~~~~6  Jo 1.)                                     (CO~~~~~.1VST4.'  .$9~jj(111  4.9.0 A    (I is0 gJ    I ...                                                          -a009.    .~   .    00 .
O'Goi  O'DOI          o' ~06           191oo      VO(l               ('.61l    *0'6I        66o'9.   m'I                                              (961ul'a        OL                 09'(I61          0019                                                 o~ 
~~UT  ~~~~~ooi     V:                        aCCi4iT40                                                           lbuoo            oouo               91                19091-~                                            4~oi5.i No
- C9o69                                                                                                         9(1 C    C  R0                        C.,*910.    46600 '
OS            I Ir.         ::11               z                        zz~~~~ -t                                       -W                 £9              6099                09               00                                     "1P     04     *63D
-  -  06   99               09                  00                96                90               009                                 ..p.-'9  69.009 0.0 *..1.0  '(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-3P ... -.1
1-9             B:i            N             8.~~~~~~~~£91  q:I *L      991          EC (- 9£                            90                  909               999               9(1              :1100960690.                                              9 '
O'Cl  zi        't                           ,~~~~~~~~9' is OCi    *   '6E*           C9("               WIC              9(9l             ('     l           toIl             0199             (*                                                  'o.i'1
Vi       99             U*9           9'9            9*0~~~EiE    911           0'((i        0691              091l              609,                960£VC 06£                           69              999
80              0( 01                         99U DOI  lo    ('61         clot          "0I         19W*1              (99*9i           0691                100'li            6490'             199'Z            009,                                  (WA) t         04 9
*960~~~~0  900*0 JO 906000A *9                                                                                                                                                                                                              *9~~~~~~il    f.J.3I  *9:
('01            l'at           9'9£           9'9(           ('0 C       ('(I          009t                                             ES~l 9'   C('       Si C9'            C(('C              0'               y9060   090
it9£6                 399l          0'(            09           £0            (0            (99 I            oCo,              (1                 999£i             9009i              £6'                                                       I-,(*"'9  099A1
99(        -     II* L £   - l'-9       £9             .            '0            1            (1                 ('               19(11(                               (6 ...                                                           -9~9    6. 00.
It£            0'9              09          096            (l'0          0.0          ('9          90(609             90*9             OO9'£9s 6           960009           091 '69906q '0                      £191i                                                         it90    10'9
99      (              9             '9            6             '             '            11                100£               l0(£(('l                           90(01              0'09              '(6 100
0'1      '             66             (0i0                        ('a I           (          9('0I             COV'1            (00'v               SC ('0           (0I6               909               0(9                                       00:060
6 6    9                0           (0              0'            '             '            0'1               00t60(C                                          I 9990                  1'6(6                                      6000 *9 
0001       0'001~        ~~~ 0 001      0901            0.0         ('            0            (0£'99             999' 199         090' 909            COVES            0'99'60            06'099'6W.o99o~0   '6 
Cl-    ('9-            -                                                    9109-              099'£            696-                691 0'9                             9(6-                 -                          *9-J. 4000W06 1000   090   1
9 '£09  ('909        6909~~~~~~~~.   0'U           '             '9           1            0'0l              9199             ((19(0                               9(100-     -    ..AiII 99('-0 1604(                                       9-609       a~0H Y.0; I  9- .
fail       Gailk0   9000061  *9                                                                                                                                 109i          9**69.9  ( 16(9  0090009999                                          49000'y09J00
100  009         061            90       ~      hII~.1            1L 1            ~     (.                      -,*(0                          909199                              (69               60
0100  1060  9  000 p.00~9  ~ f0i""j~ L2 00   V6L0601W009                                                     106009,"



AN~NEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                             Page 4
(Million US$)
_ -     .         A C T U A L                       Prelimina?rEatimate             P R O J E C T E D
1973           1974           1975            1976            1977           1978            1979           1980            1985
A. Summary of Balance of Payments
1.    Exports (incl. NFS)                                         6,596          8,471           9,255         10,657          13,583         15,464          17,374          20,232         46,766
2.    Imports (inel. NFS)                                         7,577         14,678          14,296         14,435          14,902         16,829          18.948          sl,276         44,809
3.    Resource Balance                                            - 981         -6,207          -5,037         -3,778          -1.31.9        -1.365          -1,574          -1,043           1,957
4.    Net Factor Service Income                                   - 734           - 916         -1,735          -2,288         _2,624          -3,051         -3,383          -3,791          -5,416
1.  Net Interest Payments                                      - 514          - 652          -1,463         -1,758          _2,159         -2,533          -2,810          -3,155         -4,336
2.  Direct Investment Income                                   - 198          _ 248           - 235          - 380           - 415          - 468           - 523           - 586         -1,030
3.  Other Factor Service Income                                -  22          _  16           -  37          - 150           .  50          -  50           -  50           -  50           -  50
5.    Current Transfers (Net)                                        27               1            -                 4              10             10              10             10              10
6.    Balance on Current Account                                 -1,688         -7,122          -6,772         -6,062          -3,933          -4,407         -4,948          -4,825          -3,449
7.    Private Direct Investment                                     940             887            895           l,old          1,050           1,100          1,265           1,455           2,340
Medium and Long Term Loans
a. Official Sources
8.    Disbursements                                                 562             979            856             768          1,024           1,234           1,404          1,585           2,722
9.    Amortization                  .                               217          - 191           - 273           - 384          - 367           - 391           - 488          - 597          -1,519
10.    Net Disbursements                                             345             788            583             384             657            842             915             988          1,203
b. Private Sources                                                                                                                                                                                     IX)
II.    Disbursements                                               3,993           6,080          5,974           7,388           5,218          6,354           7,416           7,370          9,215    '4
12.    Amortization                                               -1,455         -1,716          -1,868          -2,488         -2,992          -3,892          -4,649          _4,989         -7,024
13.    Net Disbursements                                           2,538          4,364           4,106           4,900           2,226          2,462           2,767           2,381          2,191
14.    Use of IMI  Resources                                         -                 7            -               -               -              -               -               -               -
15.    Short-term Capital and Capital NEI                            424           - 123          - 142           1,961             255            -               -               -
16.    Cnange in Reserves (- - increase)                          -2,559             953          1,046          -2,193            -255            -               -               -           -1,706
17.    Foreign Exchange Reserves                                   6,551           5,598          4,552           6,745           7,000          7,000           7,000          7,000          11,202
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
1.    Totai MELT Loan                                             4,770      .   7,034           6,946           8,687
1.1.  IBRD                                                          199             140            426             486
1.2.  IDB                                                            86             203            167             186
1.3.  Governments                                                   529             518            512           1,251
1.4.  Suppliers                                                     857          1,088           1,376           1,300
1.5.  Bonds                                                          37              25            -               139
1.6.  Financial Credits                                           3,146          5,103           4,515           6,076
C.  Memorandum Items
1.    Grant Elemcnt of Total Commitments                              2.5             2,5            2.5             2.5
2.    Average Intercst (Percent)                                      8.8             9,5            9.5             9.4
3.    Avcrage M:.turity (Years)                                       7.2             9,0            9.9             8.3
January 1978



- 28 -
/                  ~~~~~ANNEX I
DEBT AND CREDITWORTIITTISS a                             Page 5
1973             1974            1975            1976
A.  Medium-and Long-Tervi reb
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanrding (ead of period)                         12,571            17,166          21,171          25,985
1.  Financial Credits                                            7,848           11,211          14,561          18,194
2.  Others (Bil., Fulti.t, Bonds, Suppliers)                     4,723            5,955           6,610            7,791
3.  Public and Puiblicly Guaranteed                              6,496            8,533          11,461          14,852
4.  Private                                                      6,075            8,633           9,710           11,133
2.  Net Debt Service                                                 2,186             2,572           3,583           4,668
1.  Total Interest                                                 840            1,370          1,28            2,039
2.  Net Interest                                                   514              652           1,463           1,758
3.  Public Debt Service                                                --              1,287           1,550           1,990
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratic                                               28.6             30.4            38.7            43.3
2.  Total Net Debt Ser'.' tcc latio _/                                   36.1             33.3            45.1            46.5
3.  Public Debt Service Ratio                                             --              15.2            16.7            18.7
4.  Liquidity Ratio cf                                                   19.4             24.7            35.0            33.6
5.  Net Debt Service/GD2 e:/                                              2.8              2.5             2.9             3.4
6.  Public Debt Servi_e!/GDP d/                                           --               1.2             1.2             1.4
7,  Total DOD/GDP d/                                                     16.1             16.4            17.2            19.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                       8.8            10.9             10.5            10.6
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD                                           17.4            15.0             16.9            18.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for Y.&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursemenrts,I!nports (ind. NFS)                             60.2            48.1            47.1            56.5
2.  iet.Transfer/1hpoit:; (ind. NFS)                                     27.0            25. 7           19.4            22.5
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                     44.9            52.6            41.3            39.8
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross To'al Disb.                                          4.2             3.5             3.7             2.1
2.  1BRD DOD/Total DOI,                                                   5.1             5.1             5.2             4.7
3.  IBRD Debt ServiceiAlet Debt Service                                   3.2             3.3             2.6             2.9
F.  External Debt (Disburred Oly                                                          Outstanding December 31, 1976
Amount                              Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                        1,217                                  4.7
2.  Other Hultilateral                                                            557                                  2.1
3.  Governments                                                                 2,862                                 11.0
4.  Suppliers                                                                   2,414                                  9.3
5.  Bonds                                                                         289                                  1.1
6.  Financial Credits                                                          18,194                                 70.0
7.  Other                                                                         452                                  1.7
8.  Total MULT Debt                                                            25,985                                100.0
9.  Total. Public M&LT Dett                                                    14,852                                 57.1
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1977-SO/Total DOD end of 1976.                                     108.5
a/  Details of debt for enid 1977 are not vet available; 1977 figures quoted in text are preliMinary estinmares.
b/  Including Net Direct l.v,ist.ricnt Income.
c/  Net Debt Service as a lerceult of exports plus reserves in excess of 3 months imports.
d/  In constant 1973 Prices.                                                                                         January 1978
--  Not Available



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. 'SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Thirty-eight loans fully disbursed                                1,091.8
677    1970  Furnas - Centrais Eletricas -   Power                  80.0           3.3
Marimbondo
728    1971  Centrais Eletricas do Sul          Power               70.0           4.3
do Brasil - Salto Osorio
755    1971  Brazil                            Education             8.4           1.1
756    1971  Brazil                             Ports               45.0          17.7
786    1971  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways             46.0           4.8
797    1972  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               64.5            .3
828    1972  Companhia Siderurgica              Industry            64.5           1.9
Paulista
829    1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas        Power               60.0            .3
Gerais - Sao Simao
853    1972  Brazil                            Land Settlement       6.7           4.2
923    1973  Furnas - Centrais Eletricas -   Power                 125.0          57.5
Itumbiara
924    1973  Brazil                            Agro-Industry        54.0          32.1
1008    1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0          41.3
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009    1974  Banco Nacional de Habitacao       Water Supply         36.0          10.2
1067    1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5          22.4
1074    1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways            175.0          57.7
1075    1975  Brazil                            Roads               110.0          64.3
1151    1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          91.9
1152    1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0          57.9
1153    1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0          17.8
1171    1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0          52.2
1195    1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0            11.3
1206    1976  Brazil                            Development Bank   85.0            78.7
1207    1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0          55.0
1249    1976  Brazil                            Agriculture          40.0          39.0
1256    1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          50.0          38.9
1257    1976  Companhia Parahaense de            Power               52.0          47.1
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1978)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300   1976  Eletrobras                      Power                  50.0           48.0
1302   1976  Brazil                          Nutrition              19.0           18.6
1309   1976  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Water Supply             40.0           37.6
1317   1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry          83.0           83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                       Power                  82.0           69.5
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development    42.0             39.9
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer            64.0           61.9
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do           Fertilizer             82.0           75.1
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452/1 1977  Brazil                          Vocational Training  32.0             32.0
1488   1977  Brazil                          Ceara Rural
Development         17.0           17.0
1525/2 1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sao Paulo Sewage
Collection and
Treatment          110.0          110.0
Total                                              3,463.4 /3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 459.9
Total outstanding                                  3,003.5
Amount sold                           45.6
of which has been repaid            28.6            17.0
Total held by Bank                                2_986.5
Total undisbursed                                                 1,246.8
/1   Became effective on April 5, 1978.
/2   Not yet effective.
/3   No IDA Credits have been made to Brazil.  In addition, the following
loans totalling US$268 million equivalent have been approved as follows:
$24 million for a rural development project in Paraiba and $130 million
for a power distribution project in the South and Southeast, both approved
on March 28, 1978 (Loans No. 1537-BR and 1538-BR, respectively); and $114
million for a sixth highway project, approved on April 27, 1978 (Loan No.
1557-BR). These are expected to be signed on May 8, 1978.



- 31 -.
}'nge 3
D.  STAITEtENT OP lVC lNVFSttENIS (As or fWrc, 31. 19781
li%cal Year                             Obligor                                         Type of Itusinessa                                          A,nt in  US$ rn tl lton
Ioans  rq i (v    Totat
1957             Siemcns do Brasil Ci. dc Eletricidade                              Electrical EquiMlmnt-    2.00                                          -        2.00
1958             Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                                   Pulp and Paper                                              1.20       -        1.20
1958             D.L.R. Plasticos do BFasil, S.A.                                   Autoc,otiye Parts                                           0.45       _        0.45
1958             Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industris c Comercio                                            Motor Veiiecles                                              2.45       _        2.45
1959             Companhia Itineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                       Cement                                                      1.20,      -        1.20
1959             Champion Cclulose, S.A.                                            Pulp                                                        4.00       -        4.00
196611968/
1972            Acos Villares, S.A.                                                 Steel                                                       8.00      1.93      9.93
1966/1969        Papel e Celulose Catarinense, SA.                                  Pulp and Paper                                              3.78      3.41      7.19
1967/1972        Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria a Comercio
de Fertilicantes                                                Fertilizors                                                  8.22      3.03    11.25
1969             Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                           Petrochetaicals                                             5.50      2.88      8.38
1970             Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria c Comercio                            Petrochenicals                                              5.50      2.88      8.38
1971             Oxiteno, S.A. 1ndustria e  Comercio                                Petrochemicals                                              4.60      1.44      6.04
1971             Industria de Celuloase borregaard, S.A.                            Pulp                                                        4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975        Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Ninas                             Cement                                                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977  Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COsiGUA                        Steel                                                     16.jo       7.50   8o.h6
1973             Capital Ilarket Development Fund - FUMCAP                          Capital Itarket Development                                 5.00       -        S.00
1973             Eapresa dc Desenvolvinento do R.cursos
Minerais - CODEHtI, S.A.                                        Nickel Hining and Refining                                  26.00     4.40    30,40
1974             Industrias Villares, SA.                                           Elevatorti and ladustrial Equipment                         6.00       -        6.00
1974             Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                                   Textiles                                                   31.00       -       31.00
1975             Capuava Carbonos industrials Ltd.                                 Carbon  llack                                                6.18      1.08      i.26
1975             Oxiteno Nordecte, S.A.                                             Petroche0dcals                                             10.00       -       10.00
1976             Santista Industria - TexLil do liordeste., S.A.                    TexLiles                                                    6.45      1.00      7.45
1976             Tecano. S.A. - Textil Catarinenso do Niordosre                     Textil.e       -                                            6.00       .       6.00
1977             FHd S. A. Productos Retalurgicoa                                   Iron and Alumituma CasLings                                20.00       -       20.00
1977             Mineraseo Rio do Norte .A.                                        Mining                                                      15.00       -      IO5.00
1978             Cimetal Siderurgia S.A:.                                          iron  ,ud Stecl                                            7.0         3.0      10.0
296.53      35.75   332.28
Total Gross Co.aoltt*OtS
195.77      8.43   204.20
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repaymcnts nod Salos
Total ConniL.te,cnts WiOWd l'01d by IFC                                                                                     100.76      27.32   128.08
23.13      3.08    26.21
Total Uitdisburncd



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 36 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:  US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date:
August 31, 1978. The Marimbondo hydroelectric station and the
bulk of the related transmissicn lines were completed on schedule,
and the Marimbondo power plant (1440 MW) was inaugurated on May 28,
1976. The project has been successfully implemented by FURNAS, the
consultants and the contractors, in spite of a cost overrun of
about 43%. In part, the cost overrun resulted from an increase in
the scope of the transmission system component to allow for the
construction of a more economical and reliable system, and from
larger civil works as a result of unforeseen geological problems.
The cost overrun, however, does not affect the economic justif-
ication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1978.
The physical component of the project has been successfully com-
pleted. Two of the four generating units are now in commercial
operation. A cost overrun of about US$120 million, 79% of the
original cost estimate, has not significantly affected the economic
justification of the project. This cost overrun was financed by
loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
755       Education Prolect:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date:  October 28, 1971; Closing Date:  June 30, 1978.  Progress on
the construction and equipping of the project schools is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily, and 80% of the project has been completed. A
20% cost overrun, mainly for civil works, is being financed by the
Government. Project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays in establishing and staffing the project unit
and because of subsequent changes in project content.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is now proceeding satisfactorily. Con-
struction of the railway access Paratinga-Pereque by FEPASA is
completed. The inability of RFFSA to pay its share of the costs for
the left bank rail access was overcome by PORTOBRAS which obtained a
loan from Banco do Brasil for this purpose. Because of insufficient
increases in tariffs to compensate for inflation, Santos port is
experiencing financial difficulties.
786       Railway Proiect - MBR:  US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed. Final payments on contracts are
being carried out.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978.  Although one year behind schedule and with a
significant increase in cost, the project is now physically complete.
Final payments on equipment contracts are being completed.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project. Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5. 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1978. The Stage II project will be essentially
complete by Decenmber 1978 at a total project cost of US$970 million.
This is thirty (30) months behind the appraisal schedule and
US$593 million (157%) higher than anticipated at the time of
appraisal. Production reached 1.54 million tons of raw steel
equivalent in 1977, compared with .79 million tons in 1976 and
the 1.74 million tons forecast for 1978. COSIPA has confirmed
that the project"s design capacity of 2.3 million tons of raw
steel capacity will be achieved at the completion of the produc-
tion build-up phase. With the pending completion of the
construction phase, management has placed considerable emphasis
on production and internal cash generation.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 90% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing. Of this cost overrun, about
60% is the result of higher than expected rates of inflation, and
40% has been caused by changes in the number (4 to 6) and the size
(250 to 270 MW) of the units to be installed, and other physical
changes.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, to be financed by public
financial institutions, will be significantly higher than originally
estimated, although still low in comparison to other settlement
projects. Administrative delays in the release of public funds for
farm credit, road construction and COLONE working capital require-
ments and difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start
of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of
assured financing, and this problem is compounded by cost overruns
presently amounting to 130%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam was delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
concrete dam and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in December 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3
million. During the second half of 1977, the Government
restricted the funds available for sub-loans under this project
in line with its policy of restricting credit expansion to control
inflation. However, budgetary allocations for 1978 will allow
commitments to continue at the rate envisaged in earlier forecasts.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir is underway, and new towns to
house the urban portion of the population have been constructed.
The rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses are being resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule. Construction of the transmission lines and sub-stations
is about 12 months behind schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date:  January 9, 1975; Closing Date:  August 15,
1979. Difficulties in subproject preparation, which are now
resolved, caused disbursements to fall behind schedule. However,
the loan is now fully committed to 41 subprojects of which 29 are
under construction and 12 completed.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective I)ate: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is proceeding reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and have yielded useful information for future
sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower improved in 1977, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government recently decided to deregulate most
freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978, it will make payments to the
railways to meet deficits on uneconomic services which it wishes to
remain in operation. These actions should significantly improve
the borrower's financial position.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4. 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule. The
cold mill has been deleted from the project due to changes in
forecast demand. The effect of this change on the economic justif-
ication of the project and its financial implications is presently
being investigated.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25. 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. CODEVASF made only limited progress on
construction for this project during 1977 because of heavy rains
in the project area. Physical completion of the project will
probably extend to the end of 1980, and postponement of the
closing date will be required. Current cost estimates show an
80% increase over the appraisal estimate of US$56.5 million.
These increases have resulted from design changes, rapid increases
in the costs of civil works and equipment, and in the cost of
land expropriation. Modifications in the design of emergency and
irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and its consultants
with a view to limiting further cost increases. In the latter part
of 1977 project implementation encountered certain opposition from
the population of the project area, which disagreed with the principles
and procedures for land expropriation, settlement, future land tenure
and the structure of the proposed cooperative system. The implementing
agency CODEVASF has revised the social strategy to be followed under
the project and relations with the area population have recently
improved.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date:  March 24, 1976; Closing Date:  Junte 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport
Master Plan Study for Sao Paulo is presently under way and the first
results are expected shortly. The technical assistance program
which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing and data
processing systems is showing results. Although FEPASA's financial
position has improved, it is still not satisfactory. The Government
recently deregulated most freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978, the
state government hLas undertaken to make payments to the railways to
meet deficits on tmeconomic services which it wishes to remain in
operation. These actions should assist in significantly improving
FEPASA's financial position.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Progress is being adversely affected by funding
delays and marketing problems in the principal project crop, peren-
nial cotton. Means of resolving the problem are under discussion.
Implementation of the research and credit components of the project
has been particularly successful. Disbursements are behind the
original appraisal schedule, partially because of funding delays.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) an initial delay in the commitment of funds under this project
because of differences between the relending terms of the agencies
concerned and those required under the Loan Agreement. These
differences are nIow resolved; (ii) a leveling off of the industry's
demand for invest:ment financing; and (iii) resource constraints
of the National I)evelopment Bank (BNDE). To accelerate commitment
of the loan, the Loan Agreement has been amended to permit withdrawals
up to the full eistimated foreign exchange content of subprojects.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1. 1976; Effective Date: July 13. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981. After some initial delays, project execution
is now progressing more satisfactorily if still rather slowly.
Three sub-loans totalling US$12.6 million of Bank financing have
been approved and two more are expected to be approved soon.
1249      Agricultural Research Project:  US$40.0 million loan of April 27.
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is progressing well and in some
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at the 21 stations. Facilities and research
programs at seven experiment stations in the three priority regions
(North, Northeast and Central-West) are proceeding in accordance
with project goals. Staffing is in advance of project goals.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPFL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 30% completed.
Disbursements are considerably behind appraisal forecast, mainly
because of delays in procurement of major subtransmission equipment.
The Borrower is updating its 1976-79 distribution expansion program,
and the adjusted program should bring disbursements closer to the
original schedule by year-end 1978.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 12 months behind schedule
due to initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31. 1980. Disagreements, now resolved, on nutri-
tional and technical criteria have delayed BNDE participation in
the project. The INAN project unit is staffed with seven pro-
fessionals out of the ten needed. The nutrition delivery system's
field tests are proceeding reasonably well. The other components
of the project are proceeding on schedule.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. The Bank has approved sub-loans
for 75 projects in cities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 14 projects
in cities of between 5,000 and 20,000 inhabitants and 3 projects in
cities of more than 20,000 inhabitants. Several additional sub-
projects are being reviewed.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
are not expected to begin until later in 1978. Budgetary allocations
for 1978 will allow commitments to continue at the rate envisaged
in earlier forecast.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1343      ELETROQUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. Procurement and construction are now underway and pro-
ceeding according to schedule, with no major problems encountered.
Disbursements are lagging behind the appraisal forecast because of
delays in preparing bidding documents which resulted in delays of
contract awards. However, disbursements are expected to be on
schedule by year-end 1978.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
well. However, because of the agricultural credit restrictions
imposed by the Government during the second half of 1976 and in
early 1977, as paLrt of its program to control inflation, credit
for this project was delayed. However, Banco do Brasil has recently
agreed to release the necessary funds, and the credit program is
expected to resume according to the agreed schedule.  Due mainly to
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by land-
less producers is significantly lower than originally envisaged,
but the Government and the participating banks have given assurances
that this would be corrected in the future. Both the health and
education components have advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This project is slightly behind appraisal schedule because of initial
delays in loan effectiveness. However, according to a revised imple-
mentation scheduile, it could still be completed by the target date.
At this early stage, no special implementation problems are envisaged.
1488      CEARA Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
September 13, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding according to schedule.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: approximately eighteen months
(from April 1976-November 1977).
(b)  Project prepared by:                  EMBRATER.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:       January 21, 1976
First Bank mission to consider
the project:                          June 10, 1976.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:       June 15, 1977.
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:           April 12, 1978.
(f) Planned Deadline for
Effectiveness:                        August 31, 1978.
3ection II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The federal government and EMBRATER to enter into contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the states and
territories and each EMATER/ASTER under which EMATER/ASTER
annual budgets would be submitted to EMBRATER for approval by
October of each year for the following year, which budgets
would include adequate allocations from the state/territory
to cover in each year the EMATER/ASTER financing requirements
under the project which are not covered from the Bank loan
or federal government allocations or other sources (para. 47);
such contractual arrangements to be a condition of disbursement
in respect of expenditures for the account of the EMATER/ASTER
concerned (para. 53).
(b) EMBRATER to furnish to the Bank for review and comment (i) by
June 30 of each year, appropriate guidelines regarding priority
programs, regions and target groups and incremental staffing
requirements for use by the EMATERs/ASTERs in connection with the



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
preparation of their annual operational budgets; and (ii) by
November 30 of each year, the proposed programs (PROATERs) and
related budgets of the EMATERs/ASTERs for the following year
(para. 48).
(c) By June 30, 1980, EMBRATER to review with the Bank progress
made under the project and the extent to which project
objectives are being achieved and to introduce such changes
in project content. or mode of implementation as the Bank
shall reasonably request in the light of such review
(para. 48).
(d)  EMBRATER to employ agency or agencies with qualifications and
experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
to assist it in olbtaining technical assistance services from
abroad and in administering the overseas portion of the training
programs included in the project (para. 51).
(e) Receipt of evidence satisfactory to Bank that EMATER/ASTER
has legal title or other adequate rights to the land on which
project facilities are to be built to be a condition of dis-
bursement against civil works for such facilities (para. 53).
(f) EMBRATER to furnish the Bank semi-annual progress reports on
project implementation and a project completion report within
six months after completion of the project (para. 49).
(g) EMBRATER to employ civil engineering/architectural consultants
with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions
satisfactory zo the Bank to assist it in the review of site
development plans, detailed construction plans, bidding documents,
contract awards and supervision of construction for the civil
works component of the project (para. 50); employment of such
consultants to be a condition of disbursement against expenditures
for civil works under the project (para. 53).
(h)  EMBRATER to furnLsh to the Bank for its review and comment (a) by
August 1, 1978, ithe site development plans for the civil works con-
struction program under the project to be carried out in 1978, and
(b) by November :30 of each year, the site development plans for the
civil works construction program under the project to be carried
out during the following year (para. 50).
(i) EMBRATER to seek the Bank's prior approval for civil works
construction other than new construction (i.e., renovation
or expansion of existing buildings) (para. 50).






IBRD-13120
ENNE
BO VISTA                                                                 A  r I A NTI C             0 C EA IV
MACAPA,/'
LtZA
TATE
JNMR1
A tZA N H AC) A*
/TERESINA" -EARA
L -          JOAO
0,! T           V,         $15,0A
P i A  0  !
j
CIFE
16
PORIO VELH                                                                                                   -4
AACE
A
'4g, ?j RIO BRANC    5
LVADM
r
BRASILIA$
AiculABA
CzlMN-
[ANIA
lvt
N' A  5    G   R  A
-71%           Oo
BFLC) HOR[ZONT
ThRIA
4
0 U Tk  -AS
Al   V A "I i-)    I
t 01-                                                                                                         PAULO,(3 --r      RIO DE                      Zrz-,=
P"                                                                                                                   ,         JANEIRO
-10
A
B R A Z I L
W.,                                                                                                       04LORIAN6POLIS
A Ila,f,c
0                                                        41
7,PCTO ALEGRE                                           PA U11C
17 OC4FAN






I  R D 13416
49~~        - FEBRUARY-   97
TH
B R A Z I L                 ~~~~~~~~~RAZI L
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION  I PROJECT                     ICA
PHYSICAL  FEATURES
R A
f 0.:S  Xf S  WA  MAL ZTLI>S5  N    MEER
j9 ''TCA rP j     =    tt?oTnRIO GRANDE
~~~~\' \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /                                                .:                       ROC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ORTE
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rcf
Riorn,              N
/~~~~N                              0LOM..d Aa
i00.0.0  'i-
20000    0l m0
0,fl7200O~



