CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1568 BR
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Extension Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 22, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1568 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1978, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF
BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the cost of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Empress Brasileira
de AssistAncia T6cnica e Extenslo Rural (hereinafter called
EMBRATER) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to EMBRATER the
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) each of the Borrower's States and Territories has
designated or shall have designated an enterprise which will be
the principal instrument of each such State or Territory for
purposes of agricultural technical assistance and extension;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and EMBRATER;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and EMBLATER of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "Act" means the Borrower's Law No. 6.126 dated
November 6, 1974 authorizing, inter alia, the establishment of
EMBRATER;
(c) "Decree" means the Borrower's Decree No. 75.373 dated
February 14, 1975, which regulates the Act and establishes
EMBRATER;
(d) "Estatutos" means EMBRATER's Estatutos as approved
by Article 2 of the Decree;
(e) "State" and "Territory" mean, respectively, each of
the Borrower's States and Territories, these being political
subdivisions of the Borrower;
(f) "EMATER" means Empresa de Assistincia T6cnica e Extenslo
Rural, an enterprise which shall have been established as one of
the mechanisms referred to in paragraph III of Article 1 of the
Act, and which fulfills the conditions set forth in Article 5 of
the Act, particularly, such of being the principal instrument of
the applicable State for agricultural extension purposes;
(g) "ASTER" means AssociaClo de AssistPncia T4cnica e
Extenslo Rural, a legal entity which shall have been established
as one of the mechanisms referred to in paragraph III of Article 1
of the Act, and which fulfills the conditions set forth in
Article 5 of the Act, particularly, such of being the principal
instrument of the applicable Territory for agricultural extension
purposes;
(h) "Conv8nio" means a contract, between the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of a State or Terri-
tory, as the case may be: (i) setting forth the terms and condi-
tions on which EMBRATER shall be enabled to forward financial


﻿-3-
assistance to the EMATER or ASTER, as the case may be, of such
State or Territory, respectively, and (ii) which has been entered
into pursuant to Article 6 of the Estatutos;
(i) "Contrato" means a contract between EMBRATER and an
EMATER or an ASTER: (i) implementing the ConvAnio to which the
applicable State or Territory, as the case may be, is a party, and
(ii) which has been entered into pursuant to Article 6 of the
Estatutos;
(j) "Supplementary contract" means a contract supplemental
to a specific Contrato, entered into between the same parties
thereto pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement;
(k) "PROATER" means Programa Estadual (or Territorial, as
the case may be) de Assist8ncia Tfcnica e Extenslo Rural, a
one-year technical assistance and rural extension program for-
mulated by the applicable EMATER or ASTER; and "Approved Proater"
means a PROATER which has been approved by EMBRATER pursuant to
the applicable Contrato; and
(1) "Technical Support Unit" means the unit so designated
under EMBRATER's Operation Department.
The terms defined importing the singular number import the
plural number and vice-verca.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended irom time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement-of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. EMBRATER is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause EMBRATER to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EMBRATER to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan avail-
able to EMBRATER for purposes of the Project, on a grant basis,
under contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, through its Ministry
of Agriculture, enter into a Conv8nio, with the Government of
each State or Territory where a portion of the Project shall be
executed whereby, inter alia, and on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank: (i) the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
shall determine the minimum annual funds that it shall make
available to the applicable EMATER or ASTER, as the case may
be, and the manner in which such funds shall be made available to
each such EMATER or ASTER, as the case may be, for purposes of
covering costs of the applicable Approved PROATER; (ii) the
Government of the State or Territory in question, through its
Secretary of Agriculture, shall determine the atniun annual
funds, additionaY to the funds referred to in (i) above that, out
of its budget, it shall make available to such EMATER or ASTER, as
the case may be, for purposes of the annual operation to be
conducted, in each fiscal year, by each such EMATER or ASTER, as
the case may be, including, inter alia, the costs, for each such
fiscal year, of the portion of the applicable Approved PROATER to
be carried out during each such fiscal year; and (iii) the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the State or
Territory (as the case may be) in question shall undertake to
cause, respectively, EMBRATER and each such EMATER or ASTER, as
the case may be, to enter into a Contrato on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each
Conv8nio in such manner as to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Conv8nio or
any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit


﻿- 6 -
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by
an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any polit1-;-". or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) EMBRATER shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of EMBRATER under the Project Agreement;


﻿-7-
(b) the Estatutos shall have been changed so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of EMBRATER to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EMBRATER or for the suspension of its operations; and
(d) any of the States or Territories or any other authority
having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of the applicable EMATER or ASTER, as the
case may be, or for the suspension of the operation of any such
EMATER or ASTER;
provided, however, that if any event referred to in paragraph
(d) of this Section shall have occurred, the Bank may at its
option suspend the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account only in respect of expenditures incurred by,
or on behalf or for the benefit of, each EMATER or ASTER in
respect of which such event has occurred.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower and EMBRATER; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraph (b) or in
paragraph (c) or in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the Project Agreement has been executed and
delivered.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, EMBRATER,
and is legally binding upon EMBRATER in accordance with its
terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
the Borrower's Central Bank;
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals (includ-
ing such acts, consents and approvals as are required for the
purpose of making available the proceeds of the Loan to EMBRATER
by means of the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement) to be performed by the Borrower, its
political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any poli-
tical subdivision or otherwise to be performed or given in order
to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower and EMBRATER, respectively, to perform all of the cove-
nants, agreements and obligations, of the Borrower in the Loan
Agreement, and of EMBRATER in the Project Agreement, contained,
together with all necessary powers and rights in connection
therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date of August 22, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower;
Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco 5
Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                             611506
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
EMBRATER
Av. W3-Norte Q 515 Bloco C
70,000 Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
EMBRATER                            0611337
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 10 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Mario Henrique Simonson
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Humayun Mirza
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Incremental salaries         46,700,000        35%
for additional staff
under Part C of the
Project
(2) Fellowships, short            6,950,000
courses and training
(a) Outside Brazil                            100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) In Brazil                                 35%
(3) Consultants' services        5,370,000
(a) Internationally                           100% of foreign
recruited                                expenditures
(b) Locally recruited                         35%
(4) Vehicles                     6,860,000
(a) Imported                                  100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Locally
manufactured                             35%


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Office equipment            13,340,000
and furniture;
printing and audio-
visual aid equip-
ment; library,
documentation and
communications equip-
ment; and farm and
fisheries equipment
(a) Imported                                  100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally manu-                             35%
factured
(6) Civil works and              7,350,000        35%
detailed engineering
and architectural
design work therefor
(7) Unallocated                  13,430,000
TOTAL       100,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan


﻿- 13 -
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures incurred
(or if the Bank shall so agree, to be incurred) by, or on behalf
or for the benefit of, an EMATER or ASTER, as the case may be,
unless the Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that: (i) said expenditures are for the purpose of
the applicable Approved PROATER; (ii) the ConvOnio to which the
State or Territory is a party, as the case may be, where such
Approved PROATER will be carried out, has been executed and
delivered to the satisfaction of the Bank; (iii) the Contrato to
which the EMATER or ASTER is a party, as the case may be, that
will carry out the Approved PROATER in question, has been executed
and delivered to the satisfaction of the Bank; and (iv) the
Supplementary Contract, if any, to which the EMATER or ASTER
in question is a party, has been executed and delivered to
the satisfaction of the Bank; and
(c) in respect of payments made for expenditures incurred
for civil works under Category 6 unless the Bank has been fur-
nished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank that: (i) the
engineering and architectural consultants referred to in Section
2.04 (a) (i) of the Project Agreement have been hired; and (ii)
EMBRATER or the applicable EMATER or ASTER owns, or has other
rights satisfactory to the Bank in and to, the land required
for the Project facility to be built under the civil works in
question.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which ace then allocated to


﻿- 14 -
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's
agricultural extension services with a view to raising the produc-
tivity and income levels of agricultural producers in general and
small farmers in particular, with special emphasis on the priority
regions of the Northeast, North and Center-West. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Capital Investments
(1) Construction of 8 training centers for EMATERs, to be
located in the following States: Amazonas, Parl, Piaui,
Cear4, Pernambuco, Bahia, Goias and Hato Grosso.
(2) Construction of a central office for each of ten
selected EMATERs or ASTERs.
(3) Construction of base-operation complexes for about
20 artisanal fishing communities.
(4) Construction of offices and cold storage facilities for
fisheries cooperatives to be formed in about 10 of the
fishing communities referred in Part A (3) of the
Project.
(5) Acquisition for, and utilization by, EMBRATER or
selected EMATERs or ASTERs of an aggregate of about
4,260 field vehicles, trucks and small buses.
(6) Equipping and furnishing the 10 EMATER offices to
be constructed under Part A (2) of the Project and
about 24 libraries.
(7) Acquisition of printing and communications equipment
for, and utilization of such equipment by, about 600
communication terminals for about 24 documentation
centers to be operated by EMBRATER and the EMATERs and
ASTERs.
(8) Acquisition of farm and fisheries equipment for, and
utilization of such equipment by, the 8 training centers


﻿- 16 -
to be constructed under Part A (1) of the Project,
10 production systems implementation units, and the
artisanal fishing communities referred to in Part A (3)
of the Project.
Part B:   Training and Technical Assistance
(1) Annual in-service training courses for substantially all
of the permanent technical staff of EMBRATER and the
EMATERs and ASTERs.
(2) Pre-service training courses for about 4,700 new appoin-
tees to the staff of EMBRATER and the EMATERs and
ASTERs.
(3) About 380 specialized short courses for technical and
administrative staff of EMBRATER and the EMATERs and
ASTERs.
(4) Granting of about 210 fellowships for subject matter
specialists to be selected by EMBRATER from the staff of
EMBRATER and of the EMATERs and ASTERs.
(5) Provision to, and utilization by, EMBRATER and the
EMATERs and ASTERs of an aggregate of about 75 man-years
of consulting services in the fields of, inter alia,
administration, monitoring and evaluation, training and
human resource development, architecture and engineer-
ing, extension methodology research, communications,
fiscal management and data processing.
(6) Execution under terms of reference to be approved
by the Bank of 12 extension methodology studies in
three States or Territories to be selected by EMBRATER.
Part C:   Strengthening of EMBRATER, EMATERs and ASTERs
Provision to, and utilization by, EMBRATER and each EMATER
and ASTER involved in the execution of the Project of such
staff, materials and supplies as shall be required, in
addition to the staff, materials and supplies which were
available in the aggregate to EMBRATER and such EMATERs and
ASTERs as of December 31, 1977, for the execution of Parts A,
B and D of the Project. (The additional staff referred to


﻿- 17 -
above will, in the aggregate, amount to about 2,690 program
technicians, about 670 administrative and clerical support
staff and about 370 technical support staff).
Part D:   Execution of Agricultural Extension Programs
(1) Execution of new programs in the area of, inter alia,
data processing, communications and audio-visual aids.
(2) Execution of specific operational programs with special
emphasis on assistance to small farmers and fishermen
including programs to develop production systems, field
demonstration plots, and programs to assist farm coopera-
tives (including about 220 new farm cooperatives to be
established) and artisanal fisheries colonies.
The above description is subject to the changes the Bank shall
reasonably request in accordance with Section 2.12 of the Project
Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1982
through   February 15, 1993                 4,165,000
On August 15, 1993                               4,205,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                             6.50%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.50%


