The World Bank                                        1818 H Street N.W.        (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                          Cable Address: INDEVAS
OFFICIAL Lq
CDOaUb                                    rNTSl e T
January 11, 2012
Mr. Zheng Xiaosong
Director General
International Department
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Beijing, 100820
People's Republic of China
Mr. Wang Xiaodong
Vice Governor
Hubei Province
Wuhan City
People's Republic of China
Mr. Shao Minghua
General Manager
Guodian Guangrun Hydropower Development Company limited
Yezhou Shen, Jianshi County
Hubei Province
Peoples Republic of China
Re: Hubei Hydropower Development in Poor Areas Project
Loan No. 4666 - CHA
Amendments to the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement
Dear Mr. Zheng, Mr. Shao Minghua, Mr. Wang Xiaodong
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China (the Borrower)
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated January 21,
2003, as amended to date (the Loan Agreement) and the Project Agreement among the Bank,
Jianshi Guangrun Power Development Company Limited (Guangrun Company), and Hubei
Province dated January 4, 2007, as amended to date (the Project Agreement), all for Hubei
Hydropower Development in Poor Areas Project (the Project) (Loan No. 4666-CHA).
We also refer to the communications between the Bank and Guangrun Company on June
1, 2010, in which the Bank was advised of the change of company name and legal status of
Guangrun Company and the subsequent transfer by Guangrun Company of certain assets financed
by the Project along with Project related obligations to Guodian Guangrun Hydropower
Development Company Limited (Guodian Guangrun Company) (the Transfer).
After due consideration, and subject to the conditions provided in this letter, the Bank
hereby consents to the Transfer and agrees to amend the Loan Agreement and the Project
RCA 248423 L WUI 64145 L FAX (202) 477-6391


﻿-2-
Agreement to reflect the assumption and acceptance of Project related obligations under the
Project Agreement by Guodian Guangrun Company.
Unless the context otherwise requires and except where otherwise defined in this letter of
amendment, all capitalized terms contained herein shall have the meanings given to them in the
Loan Agreement and Project Agreement.
A.     Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.    Paragraph B of the first 'whereas" in the Recitals of the Loan Agreement is hereby
amended to reflect the new name of Guangrun Company:
"(B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by Xuan-en Dongping Hydroelectric
Power Company Limited (Dongping Company), Part B of the Project will be carried out
by Laifeng County Najitan Hydroelectric Power Development Company (Najitan
Company), Part C of the Project will be carried out by Zhushan Duhe Hydroelectric
Power Development Company Limited (Duhe Company), Part D of the Project will be
carried out by Nanzhang Xiakou Electric Power Company Limited (Xiakou Company),
and Part E of the Project will be carried out by Guodian Guangrun Hydropower
Development Company Limited (Guodian Guangrun Company), in each case under
the overall coordination of the Borrower's Province of Hubei (Hubei) and with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to
Dongping Company, Najitan Company, Duhe Company, Xiakou Company and Guodian
Guangrun Company (collectively, the Project Companies) through Hubei and the
Respective Localities, as set forth in this Agreement; and"
2.     Paragraph (1) of Section 1.02 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as
follows:
"(1)  "Environmental Management Plans" means, collectively: (i) the environmental
management plan dated April 2002 in respect of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project prepared by
the Project Companies (except Guodian Guangrun Company), and (ii) the environmental
management plan dated November 2005, in respect of Part E of the Project prepared by
Guangrun Company and to be adopted by Guodian Guangrun Company, both such plans
to provide for the monitoring and mitigation of the environmental impact of the Project,
including, without limitation, impacts on cultural heritage sites, as said plans may be
supplemented or modified from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and the term
"Environmental Management Plan" means either of the Environmental Management Plans.
Any references within the Loan Agreement to the "Environmental Management Plan"
shall be deemed references to the "Environmental Management Plans" as herein defined.
3.     Paragraph (v) of Section 1.02 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as
follows:
"(v)   "Project Companies" means, collectively, the Dongping Company, the Najitan
Company, the Duhue Company, the Xiakou Company and the Guodian Guangrun Company, and
"Project Company" means any of the Project Companies."


﻿-3-
4.     Paragraph (X) of Section 1.02 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as
follows:
"(x)   "Resettlement Action Plans" means, collectively, the Dongping RAP, the Najitan
RAP, the Duhe RAP, the Xiakou RAP, and the Guodian Guangrun RAP; and "Resettlement
Action Plan" means any of the Resettlement Action Plans."
5.     Paragraphs (z) through (bb) of Section 1.02 to the Loan Agreement are hereby amended
to read as follows:
(z)    "Respective Localities" means, in respect of: (i) Dongping Company, Enshi
Prefecture and Xuan-en County; (ii) Najitan Company, Enshi Prefecture and Laifeng County; (iii)
Duhe Company, Shiyan Municipality and Zhushan County; (iv) Xiakou Company, Xiangfan
Municipality and Nanzhang County; and (v) Guodian Guangrun Company, Enshi Prefecture and
Jianshi County.
(aa)   "Respective Part of the Project" means, in respect of: (i) Dongping Company,
Part A of the Project; (ii) Najitan Company, Part B of the Project; (iii) Duhe Company, Part C of
the Project; (iv) Xiakou Company, Part D of the Project; and (v) Guodian Guangrun Company,
Part E of the Project.
(bb)   "Respective Proceeds of the Loan" means, in respect of: (i) Dongpiong
Company, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(a), (3)(a),
(4)(a), (5)(a), (7)(a) and (8)(a); (ii) Najitan Company the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to Categories (1)(b), (2)(a), (3)(b), (4)(b), (5)(b), (7)(b) and (8)(b); (iii) Duhe
Company, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(c), (2)(b),
(3)(c), (4)(c), (5)(c), (7)(c) and (8)(c); (iv) Xiakou Company, the proceeds of the loan allocated
from time to time to Categories (1)(d), (2)(c), (4)(d), (5)(d), (7)(d) and (8)(d); and (v) Guodian
Guangrun Company, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(e),
(2)(d), (4)(e), (5)(e), (7)(e) and (8)(e).
6.     Paragraphs (jj) through (11) of Section 1.02 the Loan Agreement are hereby amended to
read as follows:
(jj) " Guodian Guangrun Charter" means the charter of the Guodian Guangrun
Company, dated June 2010.
(kk)   "Guodian Guangrun Company" means the Guodian Guangrun
Hydropower Development Company Limited, a corporation established and existing
under the laws of the Borrower in accordance with: (i) Business License No.
422822000003195, dated July 6, 2010, issued by the Jianshi County Industry and
Commence Administration Bureau, and (ii) the Guodian Guangrun Charter.
(11)   "Guodian Guangrun RAP" means the resettlement action plan,
acceptable to the Bank, dated December 7, 2005, prepared by Guangrun Company and to
be adopted by Guodian Guangrun Company, for the compensation, resettlement and
rehabilitation of Affected Persons in respect of Part E of the Project (including the
policies, planning principles and institutional arrangement for the compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in respect of Part E(6) of the Project),
as said resettlement action plan may be supplemented and amended from time to time
with the prior agreement of the Bank.


﻿-4-
7.     Part E.3 of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Part E: Guodian Guangrun Hydropower Development Project
3. Carrying out of a program of institutional strengthening of Guodian Guangrun
Company, including: (a) development and implementation of organizational
arrangements, staffing and information systems appropriate for the operation of
Zhamushui and Hongwawu hydropower stations; and (b) provision of training to
Guodian Guangrun Company staff in project management and hydropower station
operation.
B.     Amendments to the Project Agreement
I.    Any reference to Jianshi Guangrun Power Development Company Limited and/or
Guangrun Company in the Project Agreement shall now be replaced with Guodian Guangrun
Hydropower Development Company Limited and/or Guodian Guangrun Company.
2.     All of the legal obligations of Guangrun Company under the Project Agreement are
hereby accepted and assumed by Guodian Guangrun Company.
3.     For the purpose of Section 6.01, the address of the Guodian Guangrun Company is
specified below:
Guodian Guangrun Hydropower Development Company Limited
Yezhou Zhen, Jianshi County, Hubei Province
Facsimile: +86-0718 3223388
4.      For the purpose of Section 6.02, any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of
Guodian Guangrun Company is General Manager.
All other terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement, except
as specifically amended hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.
Please kindly confirm your agreement with the terms of this letter of amendment to the
Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and to the Project Agreement on behalf of Hubei
Province and the Guodian Guangrun Company, respectively, by countersigning and dating the
form of confirmation below and returning one signed original of this letter of amendment for our
files. This letter of amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written and upon:
(i) the receipt by the Bank of the original of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by a
respective authorized representative of the Borrower, Hubei Province, and the Guodian Guangrun
Company, and (ii) the execution of the Project Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
Jianshi County Finance Bureau and Guodian Guangrun Company and all the fulfillment of
conditions precedent to the effectiveness thereof.


﻿-5-
Sincerely,
Klaus Rohland
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
PEOPLE'S REP        I OF CHINA
By:
Authorized Representative
Name: Zheng Xiaosong
Title:  Director General
Date:   January 11, 2012
CONFIRMED:
HUBEI PROVINCE
By:     Wang Xiaodong
Authorized Rep    ve
Name:
Title:    ic
Date:   Janeary- 1,2v12
CONFIRMED:
GUODIAN GUANGRUN DROPOWER DE ELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED
By:      Shao Minghua
Authorized Repre entative
Name:
Title:   General Mtager
Date:    January


