Documenti
T'iie World           1 ! I (  i   ' N
;, e ,+i t!    t>; ) I 1XN V  ( Ar
AI';il'I   I I 1 .   . ... Iz, r,l Ut , A:  N}11  ) \.'  '
FOR OFFICIAL  ''!
Report No. 9489-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
AUGUST 27, 1991
Asia Country Department IV (India)
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a restriced distidbution and may be used by recipients only in tbe performance of
their officiid duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ban authorizsfioa



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 15, 1991)
Currency Unit = Rupee
Rupee 24.40   a US$ 1.00
Rupee 1.00    = US$ 0.041
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m)       = 3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km) = 0.62 Miles
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANM          -     Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
ARI          -     Acute Respiratory Infections
CHC          -     Community Health Center
DTC          -     Divisional Training Center
DTT          -     District Training Team
FP           -     Family Planning
GOI          -     Government of India
HA(F)(M)    -      Health Assistant (Female) (Male)
HERO         -     Health Equipment Repair Organization
HFWTC        -     Health and Family Welfare Training Center
HG           -     Health Guides
HW(F)(M)    -      Health Worker (Female) (Male)
IEC          -     Information, Education and Communications
LHV          -     Lady Health Visitor
MIS          -     Management Information System
MOHFW        -     Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MCH          -     Maternal and Child Health
MTP          -     Medical Termination of Pregnancy
NGO          -     Non-Governmental Organization
?HC          -     Primary Health Center
PPC          -     Post-Partum Center
SHTO         -     State Health Transport Organization
SMC          -     Social Marketing of Contrp eptives
VHG          -     Village Health Guide
UNFPA        -     United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF       -     United Nations Children's Fund
UIP          -     Universal Immunization Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
DSFXMTIONS
Crude Birth Rate               Number of live births per year per 1,000
population.
Crude Death Rate               Number of deaths per year per 1,000.
Natural Increase Rate          Difference between crude birth and crude death
rates; usually expressed as a percentage.
Population Growth Rate         Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
migration, expressed as a percentage of the
total population in a given year.
Contraceptive Prevalence       The percentage of married women of reproductive
Rate                           age who are using a modern method of
contraception at any time.
Total Fertility Rate           The average number of live children that would
be born per women if she were to live to the end
of her childbearing years and bear children
according to a given set of age-specific
fertility rates. The Total Fertility Rate often
serves as an estimate of the average number of
children per family.
Net Reproduction Rate          The number of live-born daughters a cohort of
females would bear under a given fertility
schedule and a given set of survival
probabilities, from birth to the end of the
childbearing years.
Perinatal Mortality            Mortality related to the period between 28 weeks
gestation and one week postnatal.
Infant Mortality Rate          Annual number of deaths of infants under one
year per 1,000 live births during the same year.
Child Mortality Rate           Annual deaths of children 1-4 years of age per
1,000 children in the same age group.
Materna Mortality Rate         Number of maternal deaths per 1,000 births
attributable to pregnancy, childbearing, or
puerperal complications (i.e., within six weeks
following childbirth).
Morbidity                      Any departure, subjective or objective, fromt a
state of physiological or psychological well-
being. In this sense, sickness, illness, and
morbid condition are synonymous.
Morbidity Rate                 The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients orly in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
DEFINITIONS (continued)
Prevalence Rate                The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per population
at risk; usually expressed per 1,000 persons per
year.
Life Expectancy                Average number o! years expected to be lived by
children born in a given year if mortality rates
for each age/sex group remain the same in the
future.
Low Birth Weight (LBV)         Infants weight at birth less than 2,500 gr.  LBW
may be associated with either pre-term (less
than 37 weeks gestation) or full-term but small
for dates (38 weeks or more) of gestation.
Toxemia of Pregnancy           Group of metabolic disturbances occurring during
gestation or shortly after delivery,
characterized by the appearance of hypertension,
edema, and proteinuria (preeclampsia) and, in
severe case, convulsions and coma (eclampsia).
Puerperium                     The period after completion of the third stage
of labor until involution of the uterus is
complete, usually six weeks.
Puerperal sepsis               Infection of the reproductive organs caused by
septic childbirth conditions (also called
puerperal fever).
Risk                           A probability that an unfavorable outcome
related to morbidity or mortality will occur
within a stated period of time or age.
Dependency Ratio               Population 14 years or under and 65 years of age
or over as percentage of active population (aged
15 to 64 years). lndicates proportion of
population that needs economic support.



- lli -
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE NOThEBOOD PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA..  ....         ..        ...... t .*.........                ....       vi
CREDIT AND PROJECT StMMARY ..............               ..       ...... ....       vii
I. FAMILY WELFARE IN INDIA
A.  Introduction ...  ....... *      ......            ...........
B.  The National Family Welfare Program .....................                  1
C.  Perfoi2ance of the Family Welfare Program ...............                  2
D.  Problems and Issues in the Family Welfare Program .......                  2
II.  GOVERNMENT PLANS AND POLICIES IN FAMILY WELFARE
A.  Health and Population Policy ............................                  8
B.  Financing of Family Welfare  .................. ... too ...   10
C.  IDA-Assisted Population and Nutrition Projects
and Sector Strategy. .. to ........ .. .... .....  ...                   12
III.   THE PROJECT
A.   Rationale and Strategy ..... ... ............              ....... ..    17
B.  Project Goals and Objectives                .....        ........         21
C.  Child Survival Program ...................... ........   22
D.  Safe Motherhood Program                     .. ..       .       .....   25
E.  Institutional Systems Development                     ..........   29
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.  Coss............................    34
B.  Financing Planlan..        ................... ...t .............   36
C.  Recurrent Cost and Sustainability Implications...........    36
D.  Status of Preparatione        p    a     rn..   .. .. ............   37
E.  Project Implementation.. 00 .. ...    38
F.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Operational Research .... .   39
G.  Disbursementss......       ....  .......... ...................to.   39
H.  Procurement .. ..             .......               .      . . .. .....   40
I.  Accounting and Auditing. .. .......          .. .................   43
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Benefits ......................... 44
B.  Risks .......................... 44
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED .            ...    .... ..... . ....... . ....         .   45
This Report In baosed on the findings of missions to India from November 27 - Decmbr 14, 1990
and April 22 - May 14, 1091. The Project Team Included R. Cambridge, Principal Economist-Took
Manager, S. Habayeb, Senior Public Health Specialist, A. Andonyndis, Senior Architect, D. Odbh,
Senior Economist, P. Peas., Senior Procurement Specialist, R. Heaver, Senior Operations Officer,
NDO, M-lr F Plunk.tt, Demognrpher, A. Contractor, Physician, NDO, and the following consultant
specialists: D. Foster, Human Resource Devolopment; Mo. M.T. F uerstetn, Safe Mothorhood, Ma. W.
Lynn, lnformation, EducatIon and Communications, Ms. P. Randall  Social Mobilzation and R.
Sethuraman, Government Finance. Ms. S. Pak and J. Mongol assisted In preparing the Report.
The Peer Reviewero were Mr. J. Greene, Principal Nutrition Speciailt, Ms. S. Stout, Health
Speciallst, end Ms. A. Tinkor, Health Specialist. The project was endorsed by Mr. Richard
Skolnik, Chlf, Population and Human Resourceo Division and Mr. Heins Vergin, Director, Indio
Country Department.



- iv -
Page No.
TABLES
3.1  Problems/Issues, Project Interventions and Expected Outcomes ....  IS
4.1 Costs by Component .........................................................  ;aS3
4.2 Costs by Categorieo of Expenditure .............................  35
4.3  Procurement Arrangements ........... . . .. .  *.... . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .  42
ANNEXES
1.  India: Vital Statistics (CBR, CDR, IMR, MHR) ............... ...... 48
2.   Organization of Medical and Health Services  .................... 50
3.  The National Family Welfare Program  ...........................  52
4.   Performance Achievements of the Maternal and Child Health
Program   .................................. .. . . .. . . . . .  54
5.  Health and Family Welfare Education and Training Programs .......  56
6.   Concurrent iCvaluation of the Family Welfare Program ............  73
7.  National Health Policy and Safe Motherhood Strategy ............  76
8.  Phasing of Districts Selected for UIP Plus and Safe Motherhood
Implementation ...........................................................  79
9.   Costs of the National MCH Program ..............................  83
10.   Bilateral and Multilateral Assistance to Health and
Family Welfare ...........................................................  85
11.   IDA-Assisted Population and Nutrition Projects       ................. 87
12.   Universal Immunization Program .................................  93
13.   National Program for the Control of Diarrhoeal Diseases and
Policy on Management of Diarrhoeal Disease through ORT .......... 101
14.   Social Marketing of Oral Rehydration Salts ...................... 104
15.   Acute Respiratory Infections in Children ir, India ..............  109
16.   Social Marketing of Contraceptives ...........................   114
17.   Key Indicative Operational Components for s'-"!e Motherhood   ...... 122
18.  Work Routines for Field Workers ..........  .................... 133
19.   Information, Education and Communication :;srategy ...   .       139
20.   Functional Guidelines for Field-level Recordkeeping      .       153
21.   Ensuring the Quality of Drugs in India ..                        154
22.   Schedule of Appointment of Additional Staff         .....        156
23.   Project Costs:
Summary Costs by Component and Time   .. .............          157
Summary Costs by Categories of Expenditure and Time   ..        158
Sunumary Costs by Component and Categories of Expenditure .     159
24.  Basis of Cost Estimates .......... .              ...  ....... . 160
25.   Financing Plan by Categories of Expenditure ..........           166
26.   Project Additionality and Sustainability ...                     167
27.   Coordination between Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
and the Women and Child Department            ....             . 178
28.   District Planning Guidelines  ... ........                       183
29.  Key Indicators ....... ..       ..... . .............. .. ... 186
30.   Operational Research and Scudies .     ....................    .188
31.   Forecast of Annual Expenditures and Disbursements ..             196
32.   Rationale For Recommended Methods of Procurement   . .           197
33.   Supervision Plan .................      .. ...... .......... . 209
34.   Selected Documents in the Project File .      ............     214



'ago No.
CHARTS
1.  Maternal and Child Health Services Beneficiaries
Immunization (1970-1988) ...................................... 218
2.  Maternal and Child Health Service Beneficiaries -
Prophylaxis Program (1986/87 - 1987/88) ....................... 219
3.  Indiat Distribution of Childhood Deaths ...................... 220
4.  India:  Sex Ratio 1901-1991 ........ . ..... ................... .  221
5.  India: Distribution of Maternal Deaths ....................... 222
6.  Implementation Phasing of the National MCH Program ............ 223
7.  Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR)s  The Effects of Health
Interventions .      ......      ...........     .. .............. 224



- vi. -
INIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAn MOTHEEHOOD PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total Area                                                          3,287,253 km2
Total Population 1/                               (1990)            850 million
Density per km2  -                                (1990)            259
Total Fertility Rate                              (1988)            3.9
Crude Birth Rate                                  (1989)            30.5/1000
Crude Death Rate                                   (1989)           10.2/1000
Rate of Natural Increase                          (1989)            2.0X
Life Expectancy at Birth                           (1985)           55 years
Infant Mortality Rate                             (1989)            91/1000
Maternal Mortality Rate                            (1985)           50/10,000
Urban Population as Percent
of Total Population                             (1991)            23.3X
Literacy Rate (age 7 and above)                   (1991)
Males                                                             64S
Females                                                           39?
Primary School Enrollment                         (1983-84)
Males                                                             92X
Females                                                           59Z
Age Structure 1/                                   (1990)
0-14                                                             37?
15-60                                                             59?
60 and over                                                        4?
Population per Physician                          (1983)            2,10
Population per Midwife/Nurse                      (1983)            2,251
Current Contraceptive
Prevalence Rate 2/                              (1988)            40
Per Capita Gross Domestic Product 1/              (1988)            US$313
1/ Bank estimate.
2/ Operations Research Group Survey.



- vii -
INDIA
CBILD SURVIVAL AND SAfl NOTERUHOOD PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrovers                   India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:             States and Union Territories of India
Amount:                     SDR 160.9 million (US$214.5 million equivalent)
Tt -s:                      Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-lending Terms:          Government of India (GOI) to the States and Union
Territories of India: In accordance with standard
arrangements for development assistance to States and
Union Territoriea.
Description:                The project would support enhancement and expansion of
COI's Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Program for the
1991-1995 period. It would cover the incremental
costs associated with the program. It would be na-
tional in scope, but with an emphasis on specific
districts where maternal and infant mortality rates
are higher than the national average. It would be co-
financed by UNICEF and take into account its experi-
ence in assisting the GOI in implementing the Univer-
sal Imunnization Program (UIP) during the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (1985-90). Its specific objectives
would be to enhance child survival, prevent maternal
mortality and morbidity, and increase the effective-
ness of service delivery. These objectives would be
achieved through supporting: (a) Child Survival Pro-
grams including: sustaining UIP as well as strengthen-
ing diarrhoea control programs, the control of acute
respiratory infections (ARI), prophylaxis against
blindness and eye lesions due to Vitamin A deficiency,
enhanced newborn care and the active promotion of
breast feeding. These interventions will be called
"UIP Plus;" (b) a Safe Motherhood Initiative which
would improve maternity care and preventive programs
for all women, giving enhanced emphasis to pregnant
women with high-risk factors, strengthening essential
obstetric care and capabilities to treat obstetric
complications, while concurrently promoting birth
spacing, timing, post partum counselling, and prophy-
laxis and control of nutritional anemia; and (c)
Institutional Systems DeveloRment which would include
improving and expanding training programs for family
welfare workers, expanding information, education and
conmunications dissemination, and strengthening exist-
ing center and state/district management information,
supervision, planning, procurement, logistics, and
maintenance systems.



-viii-
Benefits and Riskas        The project would have several immediate benefits.
First, in the absence of sustaining the immunization
program, another 250,000 children would die from
tetanus, 500,000 would die from measles and 170,000
would risk paralysis each year due to poliomyelitis.
Second, the project would assist in subtaining and
developing MCH services during a period when the scale
of publicly financed social services could be severely
and negatively impacted by GOI budgetary constraints.
Third, the project wo: ld contribute to a GOI review of
its current national MCH policies and to appropriate
adjustments in terms of content, targeting and deliv-
ery. Fourth, the project allows GOI the time and
opportunity to undertake vigorous trials at the dis-
trict level of the OUIP Plusw and Safe Motherhood
models which are being developed. It is estimated
that about 115 million lower-income women and about
190 million children in rural areas and urban slums
would benefit from this project. The long-term bene-
fit of the project is that it should promote a more
efficient and effective national family welfare pro-
gram which would lead to significant reductions of ma-
ternal, infant and young child morbidity, mortality,
and disability, thereby enhancing the quality of life
and of India's human capital.
There are some risks to the project. It will be
difficult, first, to ii.crease the number of activities
to be undertaken at the point of service delivery as
well as change the way health workers and supervisors
perform their tasks. However, ongoing IDA support to
the five Populaticn projects should alleviate this
risk by strengthening regular on-the-job training and
more appropriate supervision. In addition, GOI under
the proposed project would implement improved job
descriptions and work routines for staff and supervi-
sors. The large-scale cooperations between IDA and
UNICEF will also assist in reducing the constraints to
successful project implementation. UNICEF has exten-
sive contacts with the medical community in India and
a wide network of offices in the States. This should
assist in project monitoring, supervision and evalua-
tion.   There are also risks associated with the Safe
Motherhood Program. The project would include activ-
ities to increase awareness and action through Pancha-
yats, and Vonen's Groups including Mahilla Mandals and
Private Voluntary Organizations. Moreover, IEC pro-
grams would be designed to specifically address some
local customs which are dangerous to women's survival.
Also, local communities, through their representatives
and/or with the assistance of PVOs, would be mobilized
as an integral part of the planning for Safe Mother-
hood in that community.



-ix-
Estimated Costs:                           Local     Foreign        Total
…S------ US$ mlllion -------
Child Survival Program                     109.7      18.6         128.3
Safe Motherhood Program                     83.3      13.9          97.2
Institutional Systems Development          101.8       6.9         108.7
TOTAL BASE COSI                            294.8      39.4         334.2
Contingencies                              -11.7       7.1          -4.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         283.1      46.5         329.6
Financing Plan:
GOI                                         47.3        -           47.3
UNICEF                                      56.6      11.2          67.8
IDA                                        179.2      35.3         214.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        283.1      46.5         329.6
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                    FY92      FY93     FY94     FY95      FY96
Annual                     46.2     47.4     57.8     56.0       7.1
Cumulative                 46.2     93.6    151.4    207.4    214.5
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable



DIA
CHILD SURVIVAL A*MD SAYN SOYNKUNOOD PROJECT
I. AMNILY WEZLARE IN INDA
A. Introduction
1.01      The proposed project is a critical part of IDA'" strategy of
supptorting human capital development and poverty alleviation in India. It
provides IDA with the opportunity to extend rapid but targeted asoistance to
the most vulnerable groups, about 115 million poor women and 190 million
children, who are at risk of falling through the social safety net during a
period of severe tudgetary constraints on publicly-financed social programs
(Annex 1). The special features of the project are that iL would: (a) assist
the GovArnment of India (GOI) to maintain coverage of vaccine-preventable
diseases at least to levels achieved at the end of the Seventh Five-Year Plan
pewiod (1989/90), as well as to expand the provision of servicss to previously
unserved areas and beneficiaries; (b) act as a coherent vehicl- to launch a
major initiative in Safe Motherhood to reduce maternal mortality and morbidi-
ty; (c) use the Universal Immunization Program (UIP) as an organizing frame-
work to deliver more efficiently, several critical public health interventions
including diarrhoea management, the control of acute respiratory infections
(ARI), Vitamin A supplementation, newborn care and breast feeding combined
into a technical package called UIP 'Plus:" (d) increase support to private
sector, non-governmental organizations and communities to deliver maternal and
child health (HCH) services; and (e) represent the first large scale coopera-
tion between IDA and UNICEF in India and builds- upon the last five years of
UNICEF/GOI experience with UIP. These aspects of the proposed project will
not only enbance policy dialogue, monitoring, supervision and evaluation of
the national program but will lead to the more effective delivery of essential
health services resulting in decreased rates of infant, young child and
maternal mortality and morbidity.
B. The National Fawfly Welfare Program
1.02      The Indian Family Welfare Program was established in 1951 and is one
of the most extensive programs of its type in the world. The program is
managed by the ilinistry of Health and Family Welfare (HOHFW) and provides
family planning tiP) and maternal and child health (MCH) services to reduce
morbAdity and mortality among mothers and children and to reduce fertility.
Since its inception, the program has contributed to reducing the infant
mortality rate from about 135 per 1,000 live births in the early 1970s to
about 93 in 1989, and contributed to the decline in fertility from a total
fertility rate (TFR) of almost 6.0 in the 1960s to 3.9 in 1988, largely the
result of increases in contraceptive prevalence to 421 effective prevalence in
1989 although there remain widespread regional variations (Annex 1). Despite
its successes, there is a consensus that the program today ?aces four major
challengess (a) how to improve access to services, particularly to disadvan-
taged areas; (b) how to improve the quality of services; (c) how to improve
the efficiency of services, especially the productivity of workers! and (d)
how to maximize impact by increasing the provision of temporary family
planning methods to families at the beginning of their childbearing years
since the highest risk of infant death is observed for fourth and higher
parity births among women in their forties, followed by first order births



- 2 -
among teenagers. Towards these aims, the Government of India (GOI) is
promoting a Revised Family Welfare Strategy that aims to make the program more
responsive to the segmented market for the provision of family welfare servic-
es. The Health System infrastructure, including a description of the organi-
zation of health services, is outlined in Annez 2.
1.03      The term *family welfare, covers two distinct but interrelated parts
of the current program: Family Planning 'FP) and Maternal and Child Health
(MCH). The policy of the program is to promote family planning on a voluntary
basis through the independent choice of the family planning method which is
best suited for the acceptor, and maternal and child health through immuniza-
tion and other prophylactic interventions, ante- and post-natal care and
nutritional awareness. In order to convey messages of the small family norm
and maternal and child health, motivational, educational and persuasive
methods including financial incentives are made without resort to any form of
coercion. The goals and achievements of the National Family Welfare Program
are outlined in Annex 3.
C. Performance of the Family Welfare Program.
1.04      India's Family Welfare Program has grown rapidly during the Sixth
and Seventh Five-Year Plan periods (1980-1990). Progress in the construction
and upgrading of facilities as well as the training and posting of additional
staff has been satisfactory, and the key Seventh Five-Year Plan goal of one
female health worker for 5,000 population has virtually been achieved.
Improvement in the availability of services has resulted in steady growth in
the performance of the program: over 402 of the eligible couples in India
currently use some form of modern contraception, and immunization coverage of
both pregnant women and children has improved substantially.
1.05      The number of women and children receiving some service from the MCH
component of the Family Welfare program in 1988 was aboat 32.6 million and
about 105 million respectively. The MCH portion of the Family Welfare Program
includes six schemes (Annex 3, Table 2) and about ten others which are shared
with the Family Planning part of the Family Welfare program. Mothers and
children have been covered primarily by immunization and prophylaxis against
nutritional anemia and blindness (Annex 4). The growth in MCH coverage under
the National Family Welfare program is shown graphically in Charts 1 and 2.
D. Problems and Issues in the Family Welfare PrograN
1.06      Despite the above achievements, the present level of infant and
maternal mortality in India remains unacceptably high, partly because of
demographic, socio-economic and cultural factors, and partly due to a number
of constraints and weaknesses ea the Family Welfare program itself. Shifte in
program design are therefore necessary. The quantity and quality of service
delivery, especially at first referral level, have to be expanded and im-
proved, and the management of the program strengthened. There are several
factors which directly affect the quality of service delivery, including; (a)
the training and management of personael of facil'ties where family welfare,
nutrition and other health services are delivered, i.e., subcenters, PHCs,
CHCs and post-partum units at district hospitals; (b) the location of facilit-
ies for service delivery; and (c) the availability of good quality supplies.



1.07      Infant Mortality.  Children up to 14 years of age constitute nearly
40? of India's total population. At the start of the Eighth Five-Year Plan
period (1990), ther':' were an estimated 330 million in this age group. In the
0-5 age group the population was estimated at 100 million. In India, the
infant mortality rate (IMR) was 93 per 1,000 live births in 1989, and while
there has been a discernible decline over the last decade, it is still
unacceptably high, with significant differences between States. The lowest
rate is in Kerala (28 per 1,000 live births) and the highest in Uttar Pradesh
(127 per 1,000 live births). Within States, even larger differences exist
between districts. Peri-natal mortality rates are above 50 per 1,000 live
births in the most populous States, reflecting not only the poor health status
and care of women during pregnancy, but also the poor quality of services at
birth. The child death rate among those below five years of age is estimated
at 38.4 per 1,000 children, and is much higher in the States of Uttar Pradesh,
Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa - between 60-70 per 1,000 children. Though
the infant mortality rate does not vary much with gender, the mortality rates
among those below five years of age have been consistently higher for females
than males, in both urban and rural areas. In 1985, the age specific death
rate for children below five years was estimated at 45.3 for girls and 41.4
for boys in rural areas and 21.1 for girls and 19.4 for boys in urban areas.
This reflects the slower response of both the community and the health care
system to the health and medical needs of the girl child. 11
1.08      There are several contributory factors to high mortality rates among
young children (Chart 3). First, there is prematurity and low birth weight in
at least 301 of all births. Second, high rates of exposure to unfavorable
environmental conditions and endemic and communicable disease such as tetanus,
measles, respiratory infections, malaria and diarrhoea are the major causes of
death and illness in young children. In fact, the 600,000 deaths per year
-rom acute respiratory infections (ARI) in India account for more than a
quarter of all such deaths in the world. Over a third of deaths in the world
from dehydration due to diarrhoeal diseases (1,500,000 per year) are also in
India. Third, malnutrition is a major underlying cause of death in 30-50
percent of the 0-5 years age group and over 400,000 children become blind
every year due to Vitamin A deficiency.
1.09      Maternal Mortality and Morbidity.  Many women step on the road to
maternal mortality when they are born as unwanted female infants. As young
girls, they are undernourished, overworked, and uneducated. They begin
bearing children at a young age, continue until an advanced age, and have many
pregnancies during their reproductive life span. From infancy until death,
females have limited access to health services. Poverty and tradition often
contribute to rendering them malnourished, uneducated, and unaware of their
bqsic rights. Moreover, they suffer because of their lowly status and little
recognition of their important contribution to family and community life.
1.10      The sex ratio in India is shown in Chart 4.  It has declined over
the decades. The slight improvement noticed in the 1981 Census has not been
maintained in 1991; rather, the ratio of women to men has suffered, a decline
1/ Selective Discrimination Against Female Children in Rural Punjab,
India; Das Gupta, Monica - Population and Development Review,
Volume 13, 1987.



-4-
of £ive points from 934 in 1981 to 929 in 1991. Studies in India have given
some answers for this general disparity in the sex ratio. Some have identi-
fied a preference for male children resulting in a neglect of female babies.
Others have suggested the relative gap in health conditions between males and
females and certain types of mortality which are sex selective. The adverse
sex ratio is also due to lower expectation of life at birth for females
compared to males, part of which is d'ae to high maternal mo'tality. India
accounts for 252 of the total maternal deaths in the world. The major
immediate causes of maternal deaths are bleeding, puerperal sepsis, eclampsia,
abortions and obstructed labor (Chart 5). The maternal mortality rate in
India is unacceptably }.'gh, estimated to be about 400 per 100,000 live births
a year, with wide in-t-State variations. It compares with 280 per 100,000
live births for the s,  d as a whole and 80 per 100,000 live births in Sri
Lanka.  There are r,  chan 25 million births a year in India, and around 302-
402 of these are t. -ripk pregnancies, dangerous both to the mother and
child.  In this piv   s, ue than 100,000 women are estimated to die each
year, while over 1.6 mi'lie  women suffer morbidity of varying degrees.  Early
marriage and early and frequent child bearing with short-spaced pregnancies
contribute to risk. These conditions are aggravated by over-work, malnutri-
tion and anemia, low levels of female literacy, lack of access to health
facilities and the lack of maternity benefits. If India's maternal mortality
ratio and total fertility rates were on par with the developed countries,
there would be 2,000 instead of 100,000-150,000 maternal deaths each year.
However, it should be noted that both high-risk and low-risk women develop
obstetric complications, thus necessitating prompt and adequate medical care
for all women who develop complications.
1.11      For every woman who dies, as many as sixteen suffer from untreated
complications of pregnancy and childbirth. These unreported and undetected
disorders cause untold suffering and misery to individual women, who may
become rejected and even divorced, thereby reducing their already low status.
Maternal ill-health associated with child-bearing may wrongly be regarded in
society as unavoidable, no matter how severe. The frequently untreated
complications of the immediate post-delivery period include cardiovascular
disorders, jaundice, acute prolapse of the uterus, and puerperal psychiatric
illness. Long-term sequelae of childbirth complications are related to
obstructed labor, obstetric hemorrhage and puerperal infection, and include
vesico-vaginal or rectal fistulae, vaginal and perineal tears, and injuries
which affect menstruation, sexual intercourse and future child-bearing. Also
common are pelvic inflammatory disease following infection, and prolapsed
uterus associated with traumatic delivery. 1/ What is needed is provision
of adequate care to reduce this large pool of unreported and untreated
morbidity.
1.12      Training and Personnel Management.  Health and Family Welfare
Training programs are outlined in Annex 5. Section 1. The delivery of family
planning and MCH services is carried out primarily by female health workers
(Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) or female multipurpose worker] who are the
1/ - High Prevalence of Gynecological Diseases in Rural Indian Women, Bang,
R.A., et al. The Lancet, January 14, 1989.
- A Study of Maternal Mortality in Anantapur District, Andhra Pradesh,
Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, 1988.



-5-
linchpin of the program. While job descriptions for all levels and types of
staff have been specified, responsibilities are not evenly distributed, and
increased rationalization of the task load of workers is required. Personnel
practices are also weak. Efforts to improve personnel management through more
systematic performance appraisal methods, enhanced career development opportu-
nities, and clearer job definition and selection criteria, require priority
attention. IDA is supporting MOHFW efforts to address the task loads, worker
routines, job descriptions, career development and the institutionalization of
Personnel Management Information Systems (PHIS) under the Sixth and Seventh
Population Projects.
1.13      Several major problems also affect the quality of pre- and in-
service paramedical training (Annex 5. Section 2). These include insufficient
linkages between training curricula and job requirements, failure to attract
suitable talent to training institutions, limited faculty development efforts,
over-reliance on didactic/lecture teaching methods, and limited use of demon-
strations and field-based training. Clinical training is also weak; many
staff are ignorant of the advantages/disadvantages of temporary methods and
birth spacing. Training in key MCH interventions, such as how to manage
programs for low birth weight infants or how to recognize lat-risk' women is
limited. Moreover, orientation of key administrative staff in program manage-
ment is often lacking. There is, therefore, a need to both assess and modify
the existing curricula and to strengthen the practical aspects of health
worker training. Based on a number of training needs assessments carried out
under several area projects (para 2.09) supported by DANIDA, USAID and IDA,
gaps in the knowledge and skills of workers and their training needs have been
clearly identified. 1/ Therefore, IDA is assisting the MOHFW and the States
to address these issues of training more systematically under the Fourth,
Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Population projects where a total of over 2.0 million
health workers, supervisors, administrators, community workers and other non-
health department functionaries will be trained and updated in family welfare.
1.14      Facilities, Supplies, Logistics and Maintenance.  Inadequate
essential obstetric functions at subcenters, PHC and CHCs which are the
primary locus for family welfare activities, constitute a major constraint in
the area of maternal survival. Studies have shown these facilities are often
understa'fed and, in some areas, inconveniently located relative to the
population thereby contributing to low utilization. 2/ All seven IDA-
1/ - Training Needs of Urban Primary Health Care Workers; Yesudian, C.A.K.,
TATA Institute of Social Services; Bombay 1989.
- Training Needs Assessment Survey in Punjab, Parts I and II; USAID
Area Development Project, 1982.
- In-Service Training; A Report on Qualitative Analysis of the Functioning
of District Training Centers, Madhya Pradesh; DANIDA-Assisted Health Care
and Family Welfare Project.
- Status of Delivery of Family Planning and Maternal Health Services by
Village-Level Health Functionaries in Western Uttar Pradesh; Alok, S.K.
MOHFW, Delhi.
2/ - Facility Utilization and Management of Family Welfare Programs in
Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh; Public Systems
Groups, Indian Institute of Management, Ahmed at al.



- 6 -
supported population projects include agreements with GOI on appropriate
location of these facilities as well as assistance for the construction,
furnishing, equipping and staffing of subcenters, PHCs and CHCs. The more
recent Sixth and Seventh Population projects include a total of about 5,000
new subcenters, and the upgrading of over 2,000 PHCs and about 1,000 CHCs.
1.15      While the overall availability of supplies is adequate, distri-
bution, maintenance and inventory control systems require strengthening.
Decentralization of financial control, redesign of inventory assessment and
control procedures, and improved monitoring of stocks will be important steps
to improving this situation. Significant strides have been made to rectify
theee problems under the Seventh Five-Year Plan with the assistance of UNICEF.
1.16      Limited availability and poor maintenance of vehicles because of
budget constraints limits performance at all levels of the system. For
example, in a total fleet of about 2,000 vehicles in a State, at any one time
over 60? are out-of-service. This fact, when combined with the lack of
ambulances or other forms of motorized transport at the village level, has a
devastatingly negative impact on emergency evacuations of women when they have
obstetric complications. Steps to decentralize financial responsibility for
vehicle maintenance, ease restrictions on the use of private sector repair
facilities, and more systematic procedures for allocating vehicles, would lead
to significant improvements in the efficiency of the available fleet in the
States. UNICEF's input to the Universal Immunization Program (UIP) includes a
significant number of vehicles as weli as support to State Health Transport
Organizations (SHTOs) to improve their maintenance and logistic systems. IDA
has provided support for the construction and equipping of two vehicle repair
and maintenance facilities and about 300 vehicles under the Sixth and Seventh
Population Projects.
1.17      Administration, Management and Evaluation of selected aspects of the
family welfare progLam is centralized while implementation is left largely to
the States. A number of evaluations of program administration and management
have been completed and the MOHFW has also commissioned a number of studies to
assess current management practices in the program. 1/ The MOHFW has re-
cently taken certain actions which, over time, would decentralize some aspects
of program administration, as well as strengthen state-level capacity to plan,
manage, and evaluate program operations. Under the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh
Population projects, the respective States and Municipalities have been
encouraged to prepare detailed Annual Action Plans which take more account of
-Subcenter Construction and Performance of Family Welfare and
Immunization Program in districts covered by Second Population
Project (IPP II); Population Center, Lucknow, September 1988.
1/ - Endline Evaluation of UNFPA-Assisted Bihar Area Project; Center for
Development Research and Training; Madras, September 1989.
-End-Of-Project Evaluation of USAID-Assisted Integrated Rural Health
and Population Projects in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh and Punjab; Indian Institute of Health Management Research
1989.
-Management of the Family Welfare Program in Uttar Pradesh; Indian
Institute of Management, June 1985.



-7-
the State's capacity and needs rather than centrally instituted norms. The
funding of these Annual Plans is, however, dependent on the availability of
resources in the MOHFW budget and progress in implementation (utilization) in
the previous fiscal year.
1.18      Monitoring of program performance has consisted primarily of
compiling family planning and MCH service statistics which are assessed
against annual targets. The almost exclusive reliance on annual targets to
assess program impact enhances the focus on family planning increases and
reinforces the neglect of the MCH side of the program. A major effort is
required to develop reliable ways of estimating MCH coverage rates. The
Concurrent Evaluation which is presently being undertaken by the MOHFW in
coordination with 17 major States (Annex 6) will provide the basic information
for this reform.
1.19      Management Information Systems (MIS) are necessary for personnel,
financial and material resource management. 1/ An effective MIS can supply
information for improved scheduling of activities, establishment of MCH and
family planning priorities among target couples, follow-up of high-risk cases,
and the local estimation of MCH and family planning coverage rates. The
information can also permit field workers to evaluate their own perfcmmance
much more effectively. Currently, system design and MIS training have been
accomplished in Karnataka and Kerala under the Third Population project, West
Bengal under the Fourth project, and in Bombay and Madras in tS' Fifth
project. Work is now underway to upgrade MIS in Uttar Pradesh, Andhra
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat
under the Sixth and Seventh Population projects.  In addition, with UNICEF's
assistance, the MOHFW has developed and implemented effective monitoring and
reporting systems for the Universal Immunization Program (UIP).
1.20      The potential contribution of operational research to improved
implementation has not yet been fully appreciated in family welfare program
design. As a result, this activity is neglected, and the results of the few
studies which are undertaken are ignored. One way of strengthening operation-
al research would be to make increased use of the private sector and academic
institutions on a contract basis. Under the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Popula-
tion projects, IDA is supporting an extensive program of Operational Research
which would directly address the concerns generated by the setting of artifi-
cially high numerical targets and measurement of performance for both family
planning and MCH. The results of research will be used to modify the target
setting system in the family welfare program which has led in the past to many
distortions in implementation.
1.21      Demand Generation and Social Marketing.  The single most important
way to improve the demand for these services would be to overtly recognize
that the 'market' for family welfare services consists of multiple segments,
each characterized by distinctive levels of awareness, predispositions,
attitudes, needs, opportunity costs and incomes. While the use of mass media
campaigns has increased awareness of family planning, particularly permanent
1/ Management Information Systems in Health and Family Welfare-State
Level Status Reports; Administrative Staff College of India;
Hyderabad, 1989.



-8-
methods, there is now an urgent need to develop and implement IEC strategies
which effectively increase the use of temporary methods and maternal and child
health services. The critical role of the health worker and the complemen-
tarity of mass media and interpersonal communications in this process is
recognized. 1/ MOHFW has agreed that IDA could assist in a thorough review
of its national IEC program. Preliminary work in this direction has begun in
the context of a study on Women's Health (para 2.20).  At the same time, in
the context of each of the on-going population projects, inputs have been made
to assist States and Municipalities to devise location and target-specific IEC
programs and to emphasize more interpersonal communication in the training of
family welfare workers.
1.22      As part of the 'cafeteria' approach of making all forms of con-
traceptives available, the GOI initiated a Free Distribution and Social
Marketing of Condoms program in 1968. The Social Marketing of Contraceptives
program was undertaken with the participation of twel e public and private
organizations to promote the use of condoms, while 1 ee distribution was
carried out through the Health and Family Welfare network of PHCs and Sub-
Centers. The social marketing program was expanded in 1987 to include Oral
Contraceptive Pills (OCP) with the participation of four pharmaceutical
companies and two non-goverNmental organizations. A comprehensive social
marketing program for oral contraceptives, which includes the accepted
practices of market surveys, audience segmentation, and product promotion, is
a part of the assistance provided by IDA to MOHFW under the Seventh Population
Project.
11. GOVERNMENT PLANS AND POLICIES IN FAMILY VELFARE
A. Health and Population PolicY
2.01      In 1983, the GOI established a National Health Policy in the context
of the world-wide objective of "Health for All by 2000 A.D.0 The broad goals
of this policy are to achieve by 2000 A.D.: (a) reduction of maternal mor-
tality to below 200 per 100,000 live birth; (b) reduction to 10? or less the
proportion of low birth weight babies defined as those weighing less than 2500
grams at birth; and (c) reduction in infant mortality from 94 to 50 or less
per thousand. The specific intermediate and long-term goals of the policy are
outlined in Annex 7. While many of these goals are ambitious and may not be
fully achieved by 2000, substantial progress has been made in immunization.
With some reorientation of program design, implementation and financing, most
other targets could be approached by 2000.
2.02      The Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985-1990) and Revised StrateRy.  Under
the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985-1990), the important family welfare goals
remain as outlined in the National Health Policy. To achieve these, the Plan
included: (a) compensation/awards to acceptors of sterilization and IUDs; (b)
1/ - Family Planning Practices in India; Third All-India Survey; Operations
Research Group, Baroda, 1990.
- USAID Area Development Project; Communication Needs Assessment Report-
Health and Family Welfare Center; Ahmedabad, Gujarat.
- IEC Training Plan-Operation Strategy; Indian Institute of Health
Managements and Research, Jaipur, 1989.



- 9 -
promotion of temporary contraceptive methods for couples for whom steriliza-
tion is inappropriate; (c) intensive implementation of the Universal Immuniza-
tion Program (UIP); and (d) IEC efforts to increase knowledge and acceptance
of both family planning and MCH components of the program. In support of the
family welfare program, female education would be expanded and compliance with
the legal ages for marriage, which is 18 for females and 21 for males, would
be enforced. Other features of the Plan cal.led for increased involvement of
local communities, particularly through the Village Health Guide (VHG) Scheme.
The use of Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) in cases of contraceptive
failure, which was provided for under legislation enacted in 1972, Was also
included.
2.03      In 1986. the MOHFW revised its strategy in order to make the
National Family Welfare Program more responsive to the segmented market for
the provision of family welfare services. The Revised Strategy calls for new
efforts to raise the average age of marriage of women to over 20 years, by
intensifying female literacy programs, curbing the school dropout rate for
girls, and offering better employment opportunities for rural women. To
supplement this, greater emphasis was to be given to IEC and an effort made to
move away from simple publicity to more targeted programs to overcome provider
and client resistance to temporary methods. Linkages were established with
adult education programs, schools, colleges, trade unions, employers associa-
tions and PVOs which are seen as most effective in motivating people at the
grassroots level. The effort to reduce infant mortality below 60 per 1,000
births was to be concentrated in the universal imnunization program (UIP).
The goal was to immunize every child and expectant mother by 1990. However,
by the end of 1990 coverage had reached only 70?. A nutrition intervention
program was also to be expanded to distribute iron tablets, Vitamin A, and
iodized salt. This has been less successful, due mainly to a shortage of
resources. The Integrated Child Development Services program (ICDS) was
expanded to provide immunization, nutritional supplementation, nutrition
education, maternal and child health check-ups, pre-school education and
female adult literacy to a larger number of deprived areas. ICDS now covers
402 of India's rural blocks.
2.04      Safe Motherhood:  Goals and Strategies.  In March 1990, the India
Government outlined its Safe Motherhood Goals and a Strategy for implementa-
tion. The major goals are: (a) reducing maternal mortality from the existing
level of at least 400 per 100,000 live births to under 200 per 100,000 live
births by 2000; (b) creating an optimum child-bearing pattern by reducing the
absolute number of pregnancies, in particular those which are dangerous to
mother and child; (c) improving the quality of maternal services to ensure a
healthy outcome for mother and child; and td) reducing the proportion of low
birth weight babies from the existing level of 302 to less than 102 by 2000.
2.05      These goals are to be achieved through the following improvements in
existing services: (a) increasing antenatal services to pregnant women from
the existing level of 40? to near total coverage; (b) the proportion of
deliveries conducted by trained birth attendants from the existing level of
40? to near total coverage; (c) expanding immunization coverage with tetanus
toxoid from 60? to near universal coverage; (d) increasing the contraceptive
prevalence rate from 44? to 602 with special emphasis on birth spacing; and
(e) expanding coverage of pregnant women for anaemia prophylaxis from 30? to
60?. In addition, the GOI strategy emphasizes the reorientation of on-going



- 10 _
programs, expansion of first-level referral services and institutional
deliveries, an increased role for NGOs and information programs, and social
and other measures to delay the age of marriage and reduce the incidence of
teenage marriage. The Safe Motherhood Strategy is outlined in detail in
Annex 7.
2.06      The Maternal and Child Health Plan (1991-1995).  The end of the
Seventh Five-Year Plan period (1989/90) coincided with the advent of severe
budgetary pressures in India, and this was further aggravated by the Gulf
crisis. The result is that expenditures on MCH services declined significant-
ly from Seventh Plan levels during 1990/91. The GOI is now trying to maintain
MCH services at least at levels attained at the end of the Seventh Plan. For
the 1991-95 period, the Plan calls for the implementation of an integrated
package of services to improve both maternal and child sur-vival and to deliver
these services in a more efficient and effective manner. An affordable
holistic program has been developed, aimed at better health of women and
children within constraints imposed by across-the-board cuts in public
expenditures. In addition, the enhanced identification of high-risk cases
calls for the provision of appropriate services at existing institutions, i.e.
CHCs, PHCs and subcenters. The strategy is to use the opportunity and
experience created by the National Immunization Mission or Universal Immuniza-
tion Program (UIP), in terms of continued contact with mothers and young
children, to implement a UIP "Plus" package of services combining immunization
with other basic MCH interventions. The components would be: (a) For young
children: newborn care. primary immunization by 12 months, administration of
Vitamin A and iron as prophylaxis against blindness and anaemia, pneumonia
therapy (ARI), and control of diarrhoeal diseases; and (b) For mothers: ante
natal care, immunization against tetanus, anaemia control during pregnancy,
screening and referral of high risk cases, care at birth, and promoting birth
spacing and timing. In operational terms, the strategy would require unified
training for all levels of health workers and supervisors. The logistics
system developed for UIP would have to be strengthened to handle the addition-
al interventions, and the monitoring and supervision of all interve-itions at
the State and district levels would have to be unified. Making one Team at
the district level responsible for all MCH interventions would be a main
objective. The interventions for mother and child health care will be
developed and implemented in each district in a phased manner, with particular
attention to districts with high maternal mortality. The infrastructure and
resources of the States/districts will also be taken into account when
defining the level of service delivery. A Phased Implementation Program is
shown in Chart 6. The specific districts chosen for the phased implementation
of UIP "Plus" and Safe Motherhood in 1991 are shown in Annex 8.
B. Financing of Family Welfare
2.07      The Central Government finances one hundred percent (100Z) of
capital and recurrent expenditures of the Family Welfare Program (FWP). A
unique feature of the FWP is that during the successive Five-Year Plans, no
liability of the previous Plans has either been transferred to the recurrent
budget of the States or the Central government. Resource allocations over the
last two decades reflect increasing government commitment to the Program.
Financial outlays under the Seventh Plan (Rs.3256.0 million) were six hundred
times greater than those under the Third Plan. The share of family welfare to
total health expenditures increased from 10 percent during the Third Plan to



- 11 -
almost 50 percent during the Seventh P'lan and as a share of total public
sector expenditures, increased from 0.3 to 1.8 percent. MCH is a key compo-
nent of FWP, accounting for one fourth of expenditures in 1990, up from 16
percent 5 years earlier. Operational expenses account for three-fourths of
the expenditures, drugs and vaccines for over 1OZ, while staff training
absorbed 3Z of total capital and recurrent expenditures, implying an emphasis
on quality improvement in service delivery.
2.08      As public sector budgets increased, family welfare and specifically
MCH activities, competed favorably for more than proportionate increases of
resource allocations. However, during a tight budgetary squeeze, they were at
a disadvantage. The 'tzrrent diffictlt budgetary conditions, further aggravat-
ed by the Guif crisis, resulted in reduced allocations for family welfare
programs. The 1990/91 FWP allocation of Rs. 6750 million was 14Z less than
1989/90 expenditures (Rs. 7810 million). For MCH activities, allocations were
reduced by 3 percent from Rs. 1,970.0 to Rs. 1,900.0 million. The decline was
the first in the history of these programs and implies vulnerability during
periods of fiscal constraint and reductions in government budgets. The
proposed project will reverse the sluggish start of the first year of the MCH
Plan as GOI adjusts its resource allocation criteria in favor of high priority
projects during a period of fiscal constraints and budgetary adjustments
(Annex 9). The proposed 1991/92 MCH allocation of Rs.5,743.0 million is
Rs.384.3 million over the 1990/91 allocation and attempts to recover some of
the decreases suffered during 1990/91. The proposed allocations for the
1991/92-1994/95 period would have to increase at about 112 p.a. over the
1991/92 allocation in order to meet fully the outlays proposed for the
national MCH Plan during this period. These levels are both appropriate and
sustainable as explained in paragraph 4.08. It should also be noted that the
proposed outlays for MCH would still represent a small share of overall health
sector expenditures. Lastly, these levels are also essential if basic MCH
services are to be provided to the specifically targeted clientele.
2.09      International assistance has supported health and family welfare
activities in India since 1963. Support has come from UNFPA, UNICEF, and WHO,
as well as from the governments of the United Kingdom (ODA), Norway (NORAD),
Denmark (DANIDA), Sweden (SIDA), and the United States (USAID). The Area
Projects program (para 2.13) is also being assisted by UNFPA, ODA, DANIDA, and
USAID (Annex 10). Specifically, USAID has assisted Punjab, Haryana and
Gujarat and UNFPA, Bihar. The International Planned Parenthood Federation
provides financial support to the Family Planning Association of India (PPAI).
UNICEF has concentrated its efforts on UIP and under the Seventh Five-Year
Plan, has been successful in mobilizing and coordinating support from a number
of bilateral donors for this program. Among private organizations, the
Population Council, the Ford Foundation, and the Rockefeller Foundation
support demographic and biomedical research. All of the Area Projects were
completed in 1986. Most of the donors noted above have concluded agreements
with the GOI for a second round of projects. DANIDA will continue to fund
activities in selected districts in Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh and has
committed about US$20.0 million for the three year period ending in 1992.
UNFPA will concentrate its efforts in Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Assam
and will contribute about US$60.0 million over a five-year period. ODA will
contribute about US$40.0 million over a five-year period and will continue its
activities in Orissa. WHO will provide US$0.3 million during 1990-91 for



- 12 -
Family Planning and MCH services in urban areas and for developing the Mid-
Term Plan for the Prevention and Control of AIDS.
C. ID-Assisted P2pulation (Family Welfare) and Nutrition Projects and
Sector StrateRy
2.10      Since 1973 IDA has supported seven population and three nutrition
projects for a total of US$700.0 million (Annex 11). The First Population
Project (Cr.312-IN) was confined to 6 districts in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and 5
districts in Karnataka. It started in 1973 and was expected to be a five year
project closing in 1978. It was extended for two years and closed in 1980 for
a duration of seven years. The full amount of the Credit of US$21.0 million
was fully disbursed. A Project Completion Report was prepared in May 1981.
The Project Performance Audit Report (No.3748) was completed in August 1981.
The Second Population Project (Cr.981-IN) concentrated on 3 districts in
Andhra Pradesh (AP) and 6 districts in UP, and introduced the Area Projects
concept. These projects were designed for implementation in 67 backward
districts in the 15 major States and were assisted by three bilateral donor
agencies (USAID, DANIDA, '!"A) and the UNFPA and IDA. The project started in
1980, was expected to be completed in five years by 1985, but was extended to
1988 for a duration of seven years. About 96Z of the Credit of US$46.0
million was disbursed and the remainder canceled. The Project Completion
Report was completed in June 1989.
2.11      The Third, Fourth and Fifth Population Projects were designed along
a pattern similar to the Second project. The Third Population Project (FY84)
(Cr.1425-IN), covers 6 of 20 districts in Karnataka and 4 of 14 districts in
Kerala. The Fourth Population Project (FY86) (Cr.1623-IN) covers 4 of 16
districts in West Bengal.  The Fifth Population Project (FY88) (Cr.1931-IN)
covers the area under the jurisdiction of the Bombay Municipal Corporation
(BMC) in Maharashtra, and the Madras Municipal Corporation (MMC) and the
district of Chingleput in Tamil Nadu. The Sixth and Seventh Population
Project (Cr.2057-IN; Ln.3108-IN) (Cr.2133-IN; Ln.3199-IN) deviate from the
Area Project approach and cover in their entirety the States of Andhra Pradesh
(AP) Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Uttar Pradesh (UP), Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat,
Haryana, and Jammu and Kashmir. The Sixth Project was approved by the Board
in FY89 and the Seventh Project in FY90.
2.12      Implementation of the on-going Third, Fourth, and Fifth population
projects has been largely satisfactory, with delays only in some areas of
construction. Under the Third Project, Kerala has met most of its project
objectives, while the results in Karnataka have been mixed and the project
will be closed in March 1992. Very encouraging results are also emerging from
the Fourth and Fifth Projects. In West Bengal, contraceptive prevalence rates
have increased, and the training of staff and construction of facilities have
been implemented with a large degree of success. In Bombay and Madras, in
addition to increases in contraceptive use, both cities have pursued "beyond
family planning" strategies including maternal and child health, sanitation
and clean drinking water with the active cooperation of non-governmental
organizations, private medical practitioners and their respective public
health departments. The Sixth and Seventh projects are still relatively new.
As implementation of these projects has proceeded, both GOI and IDA agreed
that in order to have a meaningful impact on fertility, maternal and tnfant
mortality, more emphasis would have to be given to some activities and



- 13 -
coverage expanded from limited districts to the entire State. The Third and
Fourth projects have been restructured to become state-wide projects and as
flexible in design as the Sixth and Seventh Project to cover most of the
Schemes of the Family Welfare program in the specific States and municipali-
ties. The Board approved these changes in January 1990. This flexibility
allows for broader program support, quicker disbursements and speedier
implementation. It also allows for IDA's inputs to have a greater impact on a
larger group of beneficiaries.
2.13      The Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (TNINP)(Cr.1003-IN) was
appraised in 1980 and completed in 1989. A Project Completion Report
(No.9259) was issued in 1990. This project succeeded in halving the rate of
severe malnutrition among young children, by providing growth monitoring,
nutrition education and maternal and child health services on a outreach
basis, together with supplementary feeding for malnourished children. Much of
the project's success was attributed to the detailed attention paid at the
design stage to ensuring that field workers' jobs were manageable, that their
daily and monthly work routines were clearly defined and regular refresher on-
the-job training was provided to ensure they could professionally carry out
the limited number of tasks they were assigned. This experience has been used
in the design of the Second Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
(Cr.1580-IN) which was approved in 1990 and the First Integrated Child
Development Scheme Project (Cr.2173-IN; Ln.3253-IN) which was approved in
1991.
2.14      Lessons Learned.  Previous IDA projects, as well as projects
supported by other donors, particularly DANIDA and USAID, provide several
lessons for the development and implementation of performance and quality
improvement efforts in the MCH aspects of the Family Welfare Program.
Previous experience has shown that: (a) maternal mortality and morbidity will
remain at high levels unless there is prompt and adequate medical care for
those who develop obstetric complications; (b) the quantity and quality of MCH
care are far below desired levels; (c) within the community in general and
particularly among pregnant and lactating women, there is low awareness of the
need for effective care, including ante-natal check-ups, improved nutrition,
temporary methods of family planning, and the benefits of child spacing; (d)
improving the quality and management of family welfare services is critical in
influencing the demand for services; (e) an analysis of local demographic and
sociological characteristics is fundamental to the efficient and effective use
of available staff and equipment at local levels; (f) although the need for
local community and private sector involvement to create support for family
welfare is recognized, skills and aptitude in community mobilization are
limited among medical and para-medical staff; (g) clinical skills in aspects
of reproductive and maternal health, including safe delivery techniques,
knowledge and use of the referral structure, and temporary methods of contra-
ception, are weak among all levels of staff and can be improved through short-
term in-service and recurrent on-the-job training efforts; and (h) detailed
attention must be paid at the project design stage, to ensure field workers
jobs are manageable, that their daily and monthly routines are clearly
defined, and that they are continuously trained and updated on-the-job to
perform better the limited tasks they are assigned (para 2.13). Results from
West Bengal under the Fourth Populat'on Project, Madras under the Fifth
Population Project, and Tamil Nadu under the Integrated Nutrition Project are
particularly instructive. The Sixth and Seventh Population Projects will



- 14 -
utilize these lessons in th four largest States of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya
Pradesh, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh as well as other States.
2.15      The First (UP anl (arnataka) and Second (UP and AP) IDA assisted
population projects attempted to address these issues through the implementa-
tion of management improvement efforts focused on tei.ning medical staff in
management and improving the efficiency and utilizatiorn of management informa-
tion and evaluation systems (MIES). Lessons learned in these efforts includet
(a) to achieve significant changes in performance, it is desirable to forge
linkages between training efforts and improvements in the use of MIES systems;
and (b) management interventions, including trainJng efforts and/or changes in
performance measurement, require strong commitment and support from top
administrators.
2.16      MIES have been subjected to considerable attention in all previous
IDA projects.  Efforts to improve these systems have been useful in highlight-
ing the nature of the problems but generally less successful at implementing
solutions.  An experimental effort to employ microcomputers to streamline data
collection and facilitate more rapid analysis of data in the Ahmedabad
district of Gujarat has shown that district and block level staff can use such
a system effectively to analyze both quantitative and qualitative aspects of
performance at the local level. Further development of MIES at the field
level will focus on the use of MIES data by field workers to prioritize their
activities within the framework of a 'cycle of care" approach to the delivery
of family welfare services.
2.17      The project design also incorporates recent research findings on
Vitamin A and supplementation for iron deficiency anemia. For Vitamin A,
close attention has been given to: data which showed that 502 of corneal
blindness occurs after measles when the episode is associated with Vitamin A
deficiency; a World Health organization (WHO) 1988 recommendation that Vitamin
A should be delivered through Expanded Programs of Immunization to reach
vulnerable children and mothers in order to control Vitamin A deficiency which
is the most important preventable cause of blindness 1/; and the United
Nations Administrative Committee on Coordination Subcommittee on Nutrition
(ACC/SCN) conclusion in 1989, that a significant reduction in child mortality
would be possible following Vitamin A dosing. This recommendation was based
on experiences in Indonesia, Thailand, Sudan, China and Nepal 2/; and a 1990
study in Tamil Nadu, as reported in the New Engiand Journal of Medicine, which
demonstrated a significant reduction in mortality among children receiving a
small weekly dose of Vitamin A. 3/ Regarding iron deficiency anemia, a
1985-86 study in India showed that the lack of adherence to a supplementation
regime is a major constraint to the effectiveness of this prophylaxis inter-
1/ Global Situation-Vitamin A Deficiency - WHO Geneva, Switzerland,
1988.
2/ Update on the Nutrition Situation; ACC/SCN, additional 1989 data on
Indonesia, supplied by Dr. B. Kodyat, November 1990.
3/ Reduced Mortality among Children in Southern India Receiving Small
Weekly Doses of Vitamin A; Rahmatullah, L, Underwood, B.A.,
Thulasiraj, R.D., et al; New England Journal of Medicine, 1990.



- 15 -
vention. The dropout rate from the regime varied from 9S to 8.: between
States for an average of 58Z. Over 802 of the dropouts cited the poor supply
of tablets as the major reason for their discontinuation. I/ An inadequate
and unreliable supply of supplementation and low service utilization are also
major constraints in most iron supplementation programs. The ACC/SCN in 1990
suggested that program performance and compliance with a supplementation
regime depends on outreach, effectiveness of service delivery and improved
community understanding and participation. 2/
2.18      The proposed project, to the extent possible, takes into account
most of these lessons and builds on the capacity-enhancing activities support-
ed by the previous seven population and three nutrition projects (Annex 11,
Section 2). Since UNICEF will be an active co-financier of the project, th,e
lessons of UNICEF's successes in supporting the UIP would be further expanded.
With UNICEF's assistance, GOI has been able to train effectively about 2.5
million workers over the past five years. The national immunization effort
has increased coverage to above 70X with estimates in some States at about
852. The development of sentinel centers and an effici.ent logistics system
including a cold-chain which has worked well, suggests the project will build
on a program with a strong performance and which has had many successes. As
regards Safe Motherhood, MOHFW will undertake and complete an assessment of
first level referral facility requirements (para 3.24). The MOHFW will also
undertake and complete within the first project year, a detailed plan for
districts selected for the phased implementation of the Safe Motherhood
initiative. The project will also assist the MOHFW to improve coordination
with other relevant Ministries as well as between its Family Planning and MCH
Divisions in the support given to ma.ernal health i,, particular.  in brief,
the major lesson which the proposed project will institute is that instead of
trying to put more family planning into the MCH program, it would assist in
putting more and better MCH services alongside the national family planning
program and build on those parts which work best.
2.19      Sector Strategy.  In January 1987, India and IDA agreed on a
Population Sector Strategy which would guide future collaboration in the
sector. It was agreed that IDA's broad goal in the family welfare sector is
to support GOI's National Family Welfare Program. Assistance would be guided
by the central objective of helping GOI create an environment in which the
different types of clients for family planning and MCH (actual or potential)
have the requisite knowledge, attitudes, and access to services which are
provided in a cost-effective manner. In so doing, IDA support would assist in
(a) reorienting the family welfare program from its present static facility-
based orientation to include a larger element of outreach to the communities
1/ Report of Meeting on Prevention and Contrcl of Nutritional Anemia; MOHFW,
UNICEF, New Delhi, India, November 1988.
21 - The Prevalence of Anemia in the World, World Health Statistics,
Quarterly 38; De Maeyer, EM, Tegmar, M (1985).
- Preventing and Controlling Iron Deficiency Anemia through
Primary Health Care; A Guide for Administrators and Program
Managers; De Maeyer, E.M., WHO, Geneva, 1989.
- Iron Supplementation during Pregnancy-Why aren't Women Complying?
Safe Motherhood Program; Morrow, 0.; WHO, Geneva, 1990.



- 16 -
in which the health and family welfare facilities are located; (b) shifting
the focus of the program from the sterilization of older, high parity women to
a more balanced mix of contraceptive methods emphasizing increased use of
temporary methods by younger couples; (c) increasing the attention given to
the implementation of the maternal and child health elements of the program.
Programs which enhance service delivery, training and IEC, and are concentrat-
ed in urban slums and backward high fertility States would be supported as a
priority.
2.20      To maximize the use of resources, a program of sector work and
expanded lending for health and family welfare has been started. The Bank's
population, health and nutrition sector work program in India was initiated
only in 1988. Three studies have been completed so far. A review of the
Indian Family Planning program: 'Family Welfare Strategy in India: Changing
the Signals' (1989) emphasized the need to offer temporary family planning
methods as well as sterilizatior., which has accounted for the bulk of accep-
tors in India. It also stressed the need to deliver family planning services
in the context of an integrated package of KCH services. Another 1989 study
"Improving Family Planning, Health and Nutrition Outreach in India" compared
the designs of three successful Bank-assisted outreach programs in India
including the Tamil Nadu Nutrition program. In addition to noting that the
other projects shared TINP's emphasis on clearly specified, manageable tasks
and strong in-service training for field workers, this study concluded that
involvement of community groups was an important factor in project success.
The community mobilization component of the proposed project is designed to
draw on these lessons. A third study, 'Strengthening the Role of NGOs in the
Health and Family Welfare Sector fn India (1989),' analyzed the relationship
between health NGOs and GOI, and zecommended steps the government could take
toward a greater NGO role in thsit gamily welfare program.  A study entitled
'The Status of Women's Health irn India" is presently underway. The study is
based on an analysis of the sociological context of women's health in India
and an examination of the current epidemiological situation. It then assesses
the services available to address women's health needs in both the public and
private sectors and identifies imp 'ovements in existing services as well as
additional services that would be  squired if the identified needs are to be
met. Particular emphasis is placed on communications aspects of strengthened
services and on the relative cost-ef.-ectiveness of alternative intervention
strategies. A Health Financing Stu(v .s being prepared for implementation
during the secoid half of 1991.  The szudy will collect detailed information
on primary health care expenditures In twelve districts within four States.
The study aims at providing the analytical basis for informed dialogue between
GOI and the Bank, leading to a more focused attention on priority issues.
2.21      To date, IDA has supported a nimber of important program develop-
ments. These includes reorienting the emphasis given to the sterilization of
older higher parity women to increasing birth spacing and the use of temporary
methods of contraception by younger lower parity couples; c: nging the target-
setting system; increasing the role of Private Voluntary Organizations; and
changing the administration of program incentives. The proposed project
reflects movement along this path, and will allow IDA and GOI to address more
clearly some of the systemic issues and policies which retard effective MCH
program implementation.



- 17 _
III. TME PROJECT
A. Rationale and Strategy
3.01      Rationale.  First, tla project is a critical part of IDA's strategy
of supporting human capital development and poverty alleviation in India.
Second, it provides IDA with the opportunity to extend rapid but targeted
assistance to the most vulnerable groups, i.e., poor women and children, who
are at risk of falling through the social safety net during a period of severe
budgetary constraints on publicly-financed social programs. Third, the
project supports a revamped national maternal and child health program which
takes into account equally the issues of maternal and child mortality and
morbidity, overcoming a previous program bias which focused on children to the
detriment of mothers. Fourth, the project is based on a mix of practical and
successful local experiences in implementing a national immunization program
while at the same time, providing for trials and the introduction of new
technologies and approaches to Safe Motherhood and prophylaxis interventions
based on recent research both in India and elsewhere. Fifth, the project
includes several areas where the private sector, non-governmental organiza-
tions and local communities will play a major role in service delivery, i.e.,
social marketing of oral rehydration salts (ORS) and contraceptives, the
design and implementation of information, education and communication (IEC)
and training programs, not only because goverDnment can no longer afford to
provide all these services, but because the non-government sector is more
efficient and effective in these areas. Finally, the project represents the
first large-scale cooperation between IDA and UNICEF in India and gives IDA
the chance to work closely with an organization which already has extensive
contacts with the medical community and a wide network of offices and person-
nel in India. This will enhance policy dialogue, project monitoring and
supervision, as well as overall program evaluation.
3.02      Strategy.  Improving service quality, and assuring appropriately
planned and implemented expansion, necessarily involves focusing project
resources on improving the institutional and managerial procedures which
influence both worker and consumer perceptions of the goals and expected
services to be delivered from the program. Thus, while demographically
diverse, all States need to focus ons (a) strengthening the system's capabili-
ties to deliver MCH services and to deal with obstetric complications; (b)
improving program capacity to deliver MCf nert-ices to younger, lower parity
families, and especially to pregnant and lactating women and children; (c)
strengthening outreach capacity and worker skills in providing counselling and
follow-up services to these families; (d) adjusting current monitoring and
evaluation efforts to better reflect the family welfare program's MCH and
service quality objectives; (e) assuring that workers have the appropriate
skills in both the educational and clinical aspects of their jobs; and (f)
varying service delivery and IEC strategies to meet local needs.
3.03      The proposed project's strategic approach to these issues will be to
focus investments on: (a) further support for the efforts started under the
IDA-assisted Sixth and Seventh Population and the Nutrition Projects as well
as UNICEF-supported UIP, ORT and ARI training for basic, in-service and on-
the-job training of all family welfare program workers. These will be based
on training systems and procedures which concentrate on experiential learning
and performance-based curricula which are closely linked to careful definition



- 18 -
of task and job requirements; and (b) assisting the MOHFW and States to
improve further institutional capacity to ensure that strengthened training
efforts are matched with appropriate changes in the key functional aspects of
program management, particularly in work routines, logistics, IEC, management
information and maintenance systems so they complement and support the invest-
ments made by UNICEF and GOI in the expansion of the UIP, UIP "Plus,O and the
initiation of a Safe Motherhood Program. The proposed project interventions,
the problems which they will directly address, and the expected outcomes are
outlined below in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: Problems/Issues; Project Interventions and Expected Outcomes
PROBLEL/ISSUES                 PROJECT INTERVENTXON                EXPECTED OUTCOME
High incidence and mortali-       Review national policy on         Further reduction in diar-
ty from various forms of          (a) di4rrhoe mnag   nt            rhosel deaths.
diarrhoea,                        and the ISnsu of lifes
thr tening diarrhoes
(acute watery, persistent,
dysenteric and complicated)
and implement findings (b)
implementation of available
cost-effective preventive
Interventions.
Anemia as major risk factor       Review national policy on         Increased attention to
associated with complica-         Control of Nutritional            anaemia control and reduc-
tionc such as hemorrhage          Anamias and Implement find-       tion of a major contribut-
and infections.                   ings.                             Ing factor to maternal mor-
bidity and mortality.
Blindness  and deaths from        Review policy on adminis-         Prevention of disability
complications of measles          tration of Vitamin A in-          and reduction In deaths
and pneumonia..                   cluding potential targeting       from complications.
of children and lmplemont
fIndings.
UNIVERSAL IMWJNIZATION PRO-
GRAM (VIP)
High morbidity of childhood       Sustain and strengthen the        Zero levels for neonatal
diseases notably masles,          Universal Immunizatlon Pro-       tetanus, m0easl  and pollo-
whooping cough, polio and         gram.                             myolitis.
neonatal tetanus.
UIP PLUS
Uultiple vertical Interven-       Development and Institution       Integrated delivery of ser-
tion programs.                    of technical package of           vicoe for UIP Plus.
*ork routines, curriculum
changs and logistics.
Death among children du- to       Education of mothers and          Reduction In hospital ad-
dehydration from diarrhoea.       comunities In home care,          missions end deaths due to
dehydration.
Training of medical person-
nel in the managent of
diarrhoea.



- 19 -
PROBLEM/ISSUES                  PROJECT INTERVENTION            EXPECTED OUTCOME
Provision of free ORS In
a1I ha lth facilties.
Expanding social markoting
of ORS and ZEC efforts.
300 million acute  rempira-        Institute standardized              Reduction of deaths duo to
tory lnfections episodes           troatment protocola and an-         ARI by S0X.
and 600,000 deaths per an-         ti-microbial therapy.
num due to ARI.
Supply of cotrimoxezola.
Health education and train-
ing of medical doctors,
paromeical workers and EEC
efforts.
Anaemia In children and low        Increass supply of EFA tab-         Decrease annemia In chil-
IFA coverage                       lets.                              dren by coverage of 60X of
young anaetmi children.
30-40,000 children blind           Early identification  of
every year due to Vitamin A        symptoms of Vitamin A deti-
deficiency.                        cloncy.
Only 20X of children cov-          Administration of Vitamin A         Prevention of childhood
ered by Vitamin  A prophy-         to all children between 9           blindness and increas  of
laxis.                             months - B years.                  Vitamin A prophylactic cov-
erage of children to 801.
Incrensr the supply of Vi-
tamin A.
High neonatal death.               Train TRA's and com_unity           Reduction of Infant sotUl-
High Intfnt mortality rate.        workers to Identify low             ity rate.
High number of low-birth           birth weight babies.
weight babies.
Provision of color-coded
portable scales.
Increase hom level advice.
Enhance breast feding
through IEC.
SAFE MOTHERHOOD
High maternal mortality and        Strengthening the helth             Significant reduction In
morbidity                          service delivery system to          maternal mortality and nor-
provide prompt and adequate        bidity.
treatent of obstetric com-
plications, as well as to
detect and treat causes of
reproductive ill-health in
women.
High risk pregnancies and          Strengthening comunity-             Reduction In maternal
mortality.  Incomplete *n-         based maternity care par-           deaths and Increased detec-
to-natal coverage and In-          ticularly early recognition         tlon and prevention of com-
ability to detect and pre-         and referral of womn with           plicated pregnancy and
vent complications of preg-        rlsk factors.                       childbirth.
nancy and childbirth.
Support to first referral
level Institutions and en-
hancing capacity for esosn-
ti.l obstetric functions.



- 20 -
PROBLEMSSUES                    MPROJECT INTERVENTION                   EXPECTED OUTCOME
Maternal deths due to lack          Transport fund at referral          Decresse in deaths due to
of amerpncy transport,              level for relmburse.nt In            inabillty to pay for *mer-
cos  of emergency referral.         gency transportation.
Early and frequent pregnan-         Promoting birth spacing and          Increased us  of tmpora-y
el-s, lack of spacing or            timing.                             mthods of contraception.
fertillty control.
Increase In the age of mar-
riage.
High level of anaeml  In           Increasing nutritlonal               reduction In level of anse-
women and resultant obstet-         ananlo prophylaxis.                 mis among pregnant and
ric complication such as                                                nursing women.
bleeding and infoction.
INSTITUTIONAL SYSTEMS
Poor quality of service             Trinila of doctors,                 Better training of workers.
because of low knowedge of          piridie'cals and TBAs In
health worker.                      child survival and Safe              Improved quality of service
Motherhood Interventions.           delivery.
Poor quality of servico and         Str nothen DEC program  c-           Increased demand for Child
limlted use of health fa-           tivitles *speiallly Inter           Survival and Safe Mother-
cilities                            personal co municettons.            hood services from the Com-
munity.
Make service delivery units
function as *inform tion
posts. '
Increa seo mmunity partiei-
pat)on.
Weak planning and program           Training (SPN). Upgrade MIS          Improved State/District
supervision,                                                             levol Informtion and data
lmprovments to target-set-          collection and analysis.
ting system
Development district-spe-
Establish Sentinel Centers.         cific end relevant UIP and
Safe Mothorhood lmpl ementa-
Undertake coverage, evalua-         tion plans/program.
tion survoys, monitoring
end operational research.           Improved monitoring and
evaluation.
Limited logistics for UIP           Institute the agreed uni-           Expanded and Improved lo-
Plus and Safe Mothorhood.           fied logietice policy.               gistics.
Assitance to States to
lmprovo planning, ordering,
monitoring stock levels and
usge.
Llmlted maintenance of              Assistance to SHTO/HEROs.            Improved and expanded cold-
equipment and vehicles,                                                  chain, equipment and vehi-
Training of managers, tec;          cle, mantenance.
nicions and supervisors.
Expand Mobile Maintenance
Unite.
Introduce Pool Budget Sys-
tem and expand financlol
powers of State Health
Transport Officer.
Weak program/proljct Imple-         Project Planring: Distrlct           Implementation lmproved and
mentation                           Plans for UIP Plus and Safe         UIP Plus and Safe Mother-
Mothorhood.                         hood, 'goals' integrated
ProJ]et Launch Workshops.           better with Center, State
SoclaI Mobilization Action          end
Plan,                               local aspirations.



- 21 -
B. Project Goals and Objectives
3.04      Goals.  The goal of the proposed project is to provide further
support to the Government's National Family Welfare program. More specifical-
ly, this operation would (a) assist in financing the incremental costs
associated with the expansion and enhancements to the national Maternal and
Child Health program; (b) help GOI to make the Family Welfare program and
infrastructure more responsive to maternal and child health concerns, espe-
cially improving the capacity of the maternity care system; (c) assist GOI to
sustain services at levels achieved at the end of the Seventh Five-Year Plan,
especially to maintain the social safety net achieved, to expand services to
currently underserved areas and beneficiaries, and to undertake further
detailed planning, trials and phased implementation of the new, integrated and
cost-effective interventions proposed for the 1991-95 period; (d) put more
emphasis on targeting resources at the truly needy, more participation of
community representatives, PVOs, the private sector, and on district-level
planning and management; and (d) promote a holistic care approach to the
delivery of maternal and child health services and Safe Motherhood. The main
beneficiaries of the proposed project would be about 115 million mostly poor
women and about 190 million children.
3.05      Objectives.  The specific objectives would be to: enhance child
survival through improved health status and prevention of child disability;
reduce maternal mortality and morbidity; and increase the effectiveness of
service delivery:
(a) the Child Survival objective would be attained through supporting
Child Survival Programs which include: sustaining the Universal
Immunization Program (UIP), at least at the levels attained at the
end of the Seventh Plan period, as well as strengthening diarrhoea
control programs including the social marketing of oral rehydration
salts through the private sector, control of acute respiratory
infections IARI), prophylaxis against blindness and eye lesions due
to Vitamin A deficiency, enhanced newborn care and the active promo-
tion of breast feeding, which together are called UIP *Plus;*
(b) support for the reduction of maternal mortality and morbidity
objective would be achieved through strengthening and further devel-
oping a Safe Motherhood Program which would include providing a
general improvement in maternity care and preventive care programs
for all women, enhanced emphasis on pregnant women with high risk
factors, strengthening essential obstetric care and capabilities to
treat obstetric complications, while concurrently proroting birth
spacing, timing, post-partum counseling, and prophylaxis and control
of nutritional anaemia; and
(c) the increase in effectiveness of service delivery objective would be
achieved by the strengthening of institutional systems including
improving and expanding on-going training programs, especially with
assistance from PVOs, expanding communications and information
dissemination activities with the active participation of women and
other community groups, and strengthening existing State/district
management information, supervision, planning, logistics and mainte-
nance systems.



- 22 -
3.06      The project would be national in scope, but some of the interven-
tions, specifically those for UIP Plus and Safe Motherhood will be started in
a limited number of districts as part of the phased implementation which is an
integral part of the draft Eighth Plan. The project v,ould cover the incre-
mental costs between actual Seventh Five-Year MCH Plan expenditures and
proposed outlays for the 1991-95 period which include the specific enhance-
ments outlined above. These costs are calculated to ensure that external
financing would not cover those costs associated with the on-going liability
of GOI to cover recurrent costs (salaries and drugs) from previous Five-Year
Plans, or the costs of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy program (MTP)
(Annex 9, Table 2). The key measurabLe indicators of project progress are
discussed later (para 4.16 and Annexes 29 and 30).
C. Child Survival (Proposed Outlay USS128.31 million equivalent) 1,
3.07      Sustaining the Universal Immunization Program.  At the end of 1990,
because of the success achieved under the Seventh Plan, immunization coverage
levels had reached an average of about 70% in India. However, wide variations
continue to exist between the States. Special emphasis, including the use of
independent vaccination coverage evaluations to assess the reliability of
data, would be given to improve the immunization coverage status in Uttar
Pradesh, Orissa, Madhya Pradesa, Rajasthan, Assam and Bihar.  It is also
important that high coverage levels be sustained during the next years in the
face of budgetary and other constraints or else communicable disease outbreaks
will result. The thrust of the national program during the 1991-95 period
therefore is continued control of vaccine preventable diseases and achievement
of 'zero' case levels, especially of neonatal tetanus and poliomyelitis.
Booster doses will be administered to prevent outbreaks in both pre-school and
school-age children. Coverage would also be aimed at eliminating remaining
pockets of low or moderate coverage. The new cohort of children born each
year is estimated to be more than 25 million. The Government has outlined the
implementation strategy for the 1991-95 period indicating how acti.vities
additional to those undertaken during the Seventh Plan would be implemented.
It includes how the level of services would be sustained; how the previously
unreached would be reached, the number of children and mothers to be re-
immunized and the feasibility of introducing oral polio vaccine (OPV) at
birth.
3.08      A description of UIP, its cold chain system, immunization schedules,
procurement of vaccines and the protocols on needles/syringes use are given in
Annex 12.  Durir.g negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
shall (a) prepare and submit to the Association for review and comment each
year by January 31, commencing in 1992, an Annual Plan regarding implementa-
tion of the UIP Program; and (b) take into account the comments and sugges-
tions, if any, made by the Association in the implementation of that program.
The project would provide support for USIP by financing the costs of training,
and communications (IEC), s"ringes, needles, vaccines, immunization cards,
vehicles, and operation and maintenance of the cold-chain and vehicles.
1/ This and other references to proposed outlays are tentative base costs
based on the Maternal and Child Health Plan for the 1991-95 period.



- 23 -
3.09      Diarrhoeal Disease Control and Management would have three major
elements and would continue the strategy of the National Program for the
Control of Diarrhoeal Diseases which is outlined in Annex 13. First, it calls
for educating mothers and communities to enable them to provide home care for
children suffering from diarrhoea, with homemade or home available fluids,
continuing feeding during diarrhoea, and recognizing early signs of dehydra-
tion. Second, it emphasizes improving the case management of diarrhoeal cases
at all health facilities by training health personnel involved in primary
health care (para 3.29), including those at district hospitals and medical
colleges. Fifteen Diarrhoeal Training cum Treatment Units have already been
established in the medical colleges of Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat,
Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Punjab,
Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and New Delhi. The training includes
eliminating the use of unnecessary anti-diarrhoeal drugs, and the period
required at the triage area by treating the children with oral rehydration
therapy (ORT) at the hospital. Third, the program includes providing free
oral rehydration salts (ORS) packets at all health facilities as well as
expanding the Social Marketing of ORS through the private sector so that
packets are available at cheap rates in the community. The Government has
also developed plans for the social marketing of ORS including alternative
strategies to be tried in different parts of the country (Annex 14). While
many diarrhoeas can be treated by ORS and home preparations, there are life
threatening diarrheas made up of acute watery cases, persistent cases,
dysenteric cases and complicated cases (those with accompanying problems such
as measles, malaria and respiratory infection) which cawae the majority of
deaths. Among the acute watery cases, many respond to ORT but many others do
not. The policy conclusions are clear: namely, much more emphasis on primary
prevention and on a more comprehensive approach to case management of all
life-threatening episodes. In operational terms there are two major challeng-
es. First, to put in place an effective system for the management of all
diarrhoeas. This will involve going well beyond the focus on ORT, to embrace
nutritional management and the correct use of drugs. Education of parents and
training of health personnel will be key elements in a national program.
Second, and perhaps of greater priority, is the vigorous implementation of the
available cost-effective preventive interventions. In particular these
include measles vaccination, promotion of breast feeding, improved hygiene and
weaning practices, improved water and sanitation facilities, and the delivery
of new vaccines as they become available. 1/ The GOI periodically reviews
its strategy on Diarrhoeal Disease Control with WHO and UNICEF. The project
would support diarrhoeal disease management and control by financing training,
IEC, vehicles, and supplies (ORS).
3.10      Control of Acute Respiratory Infections.  ARI are a major cause of
morbidity and mortality in India, especially among children below five years
of age. (Para 1.08). The total episodes of ARI in the country are estimated
to be around 300 million per year in children up to five years. Most of the
A-RI episodes are of a mild and self-limiting uiature, while about 10? to 15? of
these, i.e., 30 million to 45 million, may progress to moderate/severe ARI or
pneumonia. ARI are caused by a variety of pathogens including bacteria,
viruses and mycoplasma. In India, most serious respiratory infections are
1/ Diarrhoeal Diseases in Disease Control Priorities in Developing
Countries; Maitines, Phillips and Feachem, 1991.



- 24 -
caused by bacteria which are still amenable to currently available anti-
microbials. It is, therefore, expected that with proper and timely institu-
tion of antibiotherapy, significant reduction in ARI mortality can be
achieved. The Government htas developed a clear policy on ARI in children and
has developed a program implementation strategy. This is outlined in
Amnex 15.
3.11      The main components of the ARI program would bet (a) home care for
coughs and colds; (b) administration of anti-microbials by para-medics to
children at home, subcenters and out-patient departments of hospitals; (c)
referral of severe cases to hospitals; (d) promotion of immunization to cover
all eligible children; and (e) health education training of staff including
doctors and para-medical workers. The services under the ARI Control Program
will be provided through the existing health network as a part of primary
health care. The training strategy would be reinforced by the creation of
district-level resource teams or District Training Teams (DTT) consisting of
doctors from medical colleges, chief medical officers and the district
immunization officers (para 3.29). T.ie project would support the supply of
the anti-microbial Cotrimoxazole and the training of workers.
3.12      Prophylaxis Against Blindness due to Vitamin A Deficiency.  It is
estimated that 40,000 young children become blind every year due to Vitamin A
deficiency. Also, Vitamin A deficiency is associated with a higher risk of
infections and an increase in childhood mortality. In measles, giving Vitamin
A immediately lirits eye damage and contributes to increased survival. The
national program against blindness due to Vitamin A deficiency was introduced
in 1970, but reaches less than 20? of the relevant population. The objective
of the national program during the 1991-95 period is to eliminate blindness
caused by Vitamin A deficiency and ensure that at least 80X of children aged
nine months to three years are covered. The Government has clarified that
priority would be given to children in the hyperendemic belt of the country;
that all children will receive the prescribed doses during the 1991-95 period;
and that the timing for administration of the first dose of Vitamin A at nine
months is more appropriate than at 6 months as originally instituted (para
2.17). These periodic doses of high potency Vitamin A provided in early
childhood need to be coupled with efforts to improve dietary sources of
Vitamin A for young children as a definitive long-term solution to the
deficiency. WHO guidelines for prophylaxis and treatment of Vitamin A
deficiency would be followed. The earliest symptoms of the deficiency would
be treated and the public informed of the early signs of Vitamin A deficiency
as well as the preventive measures which can be taken. The inadequate supply
of Vitamin A from local producers has also acted as a constraint on the
ability of the program to expand coverage beyond the current 20Z of the target
population. The Government has prepared a plan to overcome Vitamin A shortag-
es and the project would support this plan which includes diversifying the
source of supply to a larger group of Vitamin A formulators. The programs for
training, communication, logistics and supply, as well as the management
information system for HCH services, will include Vitamin A supplementation as
an integral component and be supported under the project.
3.13      Newborn Care.  Training support would be provided to improve care
for newborns at the home level with particular reference to aseptic delivery
practices, appropriate feeding and warmth. Traditional Birth Attendants
(TBAs) and other community health workers would be trained to identify low



- 25 -
birth weight babies and to give them priority attention (para 3.29). This
would complement similar efforts supported by the Bank under the Integrated
Child Development Services (ICDS) program.  A pilot project was implemented in
the Seventh Plan with UNICEF assistance under which TBAs were provided with
low cost color-coded portable scales for identifying low birth weight babies.
Suitable advice for the home level and/or referral was given. Ten districts
were involved in this intensive effort during the Seventh Plan. Similar
activities will be supported under the project.
3.14      Breast Feeding.  Early initiation to exclusive breast-feeding for
all infants for the first months of life will be promoted and the emphasis
given to changing behavior. Health workers, doctors, families and mothers
will be reminded of the unique properties of breast milk and the dangers of
anything less than exclusive breast-feeding. Steps will be taken to promote
change in hospital practices to facilitate rooming-in and maternal counsel-
ling. The communication strategy (para 3.32) for young child survival and
health will include breast-feeding as an integral component.
3.15      Diarrhoea management, control of ARI, Vitamin A supplementation, new
born care and breast feeding have been combined by the Government into a
technical package called UIP "Plus". Individual components have been tried
out on a pilot basis and in some cases on a larger scale, and the Government
plans now to implement the package in a more systematized way at the national
level. Since UIP has been successfully implemented, the UIP 'Plusw package
would focus around the immunization sessions since both mother and child would
be present for the immunization. Other potential *cycles of carew could be
envisioned in the future including one which begins with the adolescent girl
rather than the pregnant or lactating mother only. In any case, effectiveness
of program delivery depends on the systematic training of all health workers
and administrators (para 3.29), intensive and appropriate IEC activities (para
3.32), improved supervision of personnel, materials and supplies (para 3.34)
and an enhanced MIS (para 3.33). The GOI has developed guidelines for
States/districts which outline: (a) the implications of this expanded techni-
cal package on the work routines of ANMs, supervisors and doctors; (b) block
level supervision routines; (c) training of paramedical workers; and (d) the
logistics for the Family Welfare Program. Because the introduction of UIP
"Plus" would be phased by districts, during negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that it shall (a) prepare and submit to the Association
for its review and comment by January 31 each year, commencing in 1992, an
Annual Plan for the implementation of the UIP "Plus' program; (b) ensure that
no district is included in the project unless it has completed a district UIP
"Plus" Plan based on guidelines agreed with the Association (para 4.14); and
(c) take into account the comments and suggestions, if any, made by the
Association in the implementation of the said program. The project would
support UIP "Plus" by financing equipment, vehicles, training, medicines and
drugs, incremental staff salaries and operation and maintenance of vehicle
costs.
D. Safe Motherhood (Proposed Outlay US$97.21 million)
3.16      Several of the interventions which are classified as part of the
Child Survival strategy also impact maternal mortality and morbidity. The
Safe Motherhood Initiative which would be launched in a phased manner, would
include general improvement in maternity care and preventive programs for all



- 26 -
women, enhanced emphasis on pregnant women with high risk factors, strengthen-
ing essential obstetric care capabilities to treat obstetric complications,
while concurrently promoting birth-spacing and timing, a-a post-partum
counselling. Over the project period it is estimated tlhat over 115 million
lower-income women in rural areas and urban slums would iienefit from this
project, among whom, the major objective would be to brirng about significant
reductions in mortality and morbidity. In acknowledg)ng that women with no
risk factors can also develop obstetric complications, the project emphasizes
strengthening the health service delivery system to provide prompt and
adequate treatment of obstetric complications for all woman. The minimum core
of maternity care proposed for all women, particularly those at high-risk
would consist of: (a) management of anaemia; (b) strengthiening and further
development of community-based maternity care and also community-level
management and referral of emergencies during and after delivery, particularly
early recognition and referral for women with risk factors; and (c) provision
of support to first referral level institutions and enhancing their capacity
for essential obstetric functions.
3.17      Prophylaxis and Control of Nutritional Anaemia.  In India anaemia
affects around 702 of all women and as much as 852 of pregnant women. About
50? of pre-school children are also affected. Anaemia is frequeuitly a
contributing factor to complications such as hemorrhage and infection. During
childbirth blood loss of up to one liter will not kill a healthy woman, but a
loss of even 150 ml may be fatal to an anaemic woman. Anaemic women are poor
anaesthetic and operational risks. Anaemia lowers resistance to infection and
contributes to slow healing of wounds following obstetric surgery. The
National Nutritional Anaemia Prophylaxis Program (NNAPP) was launched in 1970
but is covering at most 30? of the target group with minimal impact. There
are multiple issues and constraints which affect this program including those
related to service utilization, distribution, supplies, absorption and
compliance.
3.18      Past policy was to provide one tablet containing 60 mg of elemental
iron and 0.5 mg of folic acid. In 1990, the Government reviewed its strategy
and endorsed a new policy of prevention and control (Policy on Control of
Nutritional Anaemia, MOHFW, January 1991). The policy was reviewed by the
appraisal mission and found appropriate. However, it has not been implemented
yet because of supply related issues including the supply of 100 mg elemental
iron tablets. The GOI's policy can be summarized as follows: (a) all pregnant
women will be given 120 mg of iron and folic acid for 100 days at a health
clinic or during a home visit by a health worker; (b) clinical assessment for
anemia during immunization sessions; (c) those found anaemic will be recom-
mended to take 180 mg of iron and folic acid; (d) women with a history of worm
infestation will be de-wonmed; and (e) dietary advise for consumption of
adequate quantities of iron-rich foods will be given. Recommended doses for
under-five preschool children and nursing mothers are also provided.
3.19      Under the project, it is proposed to increase coverage to 85? of
pregnant women and 502 of young anaemic children through improved and expanded
distribution through the subcenters, PHCs and CHCs as well as increased
collaboration with the ICDS program and the use of Anganwadis. A pilot
project would also be undertaken in a few blocks to test the use of Hemoglobin
meters as a technique for determining anaemii. The project would also
recognize that there are certain areas where IFA supplementation may not be



- 27 -
effective because of the incidence of wonms. The Government has proposed that
in all hyper-endemic areas, i.e., any district where over 60% of the popula-
tion has worms, de-worming efforts would be undertaken to supplement the
distribution of IFA tablets. Improved quality, packaging and distribution of
iron and folic acid tablets will also be supported.
3.20      Birth Spacing and Timing.  The importance for the health of women of
delaying marriage and first pregnancy until adulthood is critical. In
coordination with other parts of MOHFW i.e. Family Planning Division and other
Government Departments, efforts would be made to enhance public awareness to
postpone marriage until after the age of 18 years. The spacing of births, by
a variety of methods, wl.ll be wtdely promoted as a key element of the health
and well-beitig of women. Three specific programs of the National Family
Welfare Progeam address birth spacing and timing. The national IEC efforts as
well as the many local IEC efforts continue to stress birth spacing. Under
the Eighth Plan, this is to be expanded ard will be further supported under
the Seventh Population Project. The Social Marketing of Contraceptives
(condoms and oral pills) (SMC) through the private sector is the second major
effort to promote birth spacing and this too is being supported by the Seventh
Population Project. Annex 16 describes the SMC program. The third program
calls for the early but phased introduction of newer temporary methods of
contraception.. The GOI has under serious consideration the introduction of
Norplant 6, the injectable Net-Oen, and the weekly oral pill Centchroman. The
various protocols have been submitted to the Drug Controller for approval,
training materials are being prepared, and information programs being insti-
tuted. The project would build on and benefit from these programs. Communi-
ty-level health workers would be trained to educate community members regard-
ing reproduction, sex education, and to enhance understanding of risk factors
related to spacing and timing of births. Particular attention would be given
to training health workers in public and private sectors on the specific
techniques of reversible contraceptive methods. Post-partum contraceptive
counselling would also be enhanced from current levels. Family life educa-
tion, featdring the voluntary control of fertility, will be supported not only
through health, but also through formal education and literacy classes aimed
at adolescent girls, farmers cooperatives, and various community organiza-
tions. These efforts while not new, will be related to the Safe Motherhood
initiative to reduce maternal mortality and morbidity. Improvement in the
delivery of contraceptive supplies through related MCH supply routes would be
developed and coordinated with HOHFW schemes. The Government is already
submitting to the Bank for review and comment on an annual basis under the
Seventh Population Project, an Annual Action Plan for Social Marketing of
Contraceptives and IEC.
3.21      Strengthening and Further Development of Community Based Maternity
Care. The Traditional Birth Attendant (TBA) forms part of a community-based
maternity care system with clear links to the subcenter level of the health
service delivery system. They work independently and are paid by the people
that they serve. However, to encourage them to be known to the health
service, upgrade their quality, and motivate them, the health services pay
them a modest fee for each reported delivery. Since 70Z of all deliveries
continue to take place at home, and in order to raise the quality of home-
based delivery care, Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs) would continue to be
trained as a medium-term strategy (para 3.29). Support would be provided for
more effective methods of training, support and supervision of TBAs. Special



- 28 -
attention would also be paid to refresher training, given the role of TBAs in
the early recognition of complications of pregnancy, delivery and the postna-
tal period.
3.22      Because in some areas deliveries are carried out primarily by family
members, another approach would be to provide basic information to women at
the community-level on the importance of prenatal care, safe delivery tech-
niques and postnatal care. They would also be introduced to the concept and
simple practices associated with the early recognition of complications of
pregnancy, intranatal and the postnatal period. Additional resources would be
sought at the cc munity level through the use of female volunteers to serve as
community resources for information and advice, and together with the TBA
where appropriate, facilitate improved access and use of maternal care
services. Targeted IEC approaches to the general community would enhance
social and practical support for the effective development of community based
maternity care (para.3.32).
3.23      Located at the community level, the subcenter would function as a
key element in community-based maternity care and be strengthened through
additional and refresher training to the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) and the
provision of essential equipment and supplies. Its function would consist
primarily of being a center with a village outreach for MCH/FP, with particu-
lar emphasis on early recognition and referral of complications of pregnancy,
delivery and the post natal period. The subcenter supervises and supports
TBAs in the local area. District specific guidelines for referral of women
with risk factors and for emergency referral for obstetric complications have
been defined by GOI. Monitoring and recording responsibilities for community-
based maternity care would be among the routine tasks of the ANM (para.3.33).
The provision of a Contingency Transport Fund at block and district levels to
facilitate emergency obstetric evacuations will be supported under the
project.
3.24      Provision of Support to First Referral level Institutions and
Strengthening Essential Obstetric Care Capabilities CEOC). Because of the
critical role of first referral level institutions in the management of high-
risk women, and the provision of emergency life-saving obstetric care,
essential and affordable obstetric services would be strengthened at selected
CHCs, and at district and subdistrict hospitals. Support would include
specialist skills training and the corresponding provision of medical equip-
ment and supplies for strengthening essential obstetric medical and surgical
capabilities. Support would also be provided for ancillary services of
laboratory, anaesthesia, blood transfusion, transportation and pre-delivery
accommodation. The GOI, with the assistance of UNICEF, completed a facility
survey prior to negotiations to determine first referral level health facility
requirements especially the EOC, in the districts selected for the first phase
of the Safe Motherhood Initiative. In the State of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh,
Madhya Pradesh Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Gujarat, Haryana and Andhra Pradesh,
the Association is already providing support for the strengthening of
subcenters, PHCs and CHCs.
3.25      Paramedical staff at PHC and referral levels would also receive
technical skills training. In addition, medical and paramedical staff would
receive training in project planning, implementation, management, and monitor-
ing. Attention would be given to supervisory and support mechanisms necessary



- 29 -
to ensure effective functioning of the referral mechanisms linking referral
facilities to those at lower levels. Management of obstetric emereencies
would include development of community level alarm and transport sy2tems,
adapted to local conditions. The Government engaged consultant services to
prepare a Safe Motherhood Model Plan prior to negotiations. This will facili-
tate the development of district-specific Safe Motherhood plans for implemen-
tation beginning in 1992. The Government also undertook a series of workshops
with selected States prior to negotiations to strengthen the details of imple-
mentation of the Safe Motherhood component. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment provided assurances that it shall (a) by January 31 of each year commenc-
ing in 1992, prepare in consultation with the Association and in accordance
with a phased implementation schedule agreed with the Association, a draft
Safe Motherhood Plan, and submit it to the Association for review; (b) by
January 31 of each year commencing in 1992, prepare and furnish to IDA en
annual implementation plan for the Safe Motherhood Program for the following
fiscal year of the Borrower; and (c) implement the Safe Motherhood Plan in a
timely manner and based on the Safe Motherhood Model Plan prepared by MOHFW
acceptable to the Association. An outline of a Safe Motherhood Plan is shown
in Annex 17.
3.26      At national and regional levels, Maternal Mortality Review Commit-
tees would be established to monitor, evaluate and assir' the MOHFW in the
development of future strategies and the reporting system for maternal
mortality and morbidity. During negotiations, the Government provided an
assurance that it shall, in consultation with the Association, establish by
April 1, 1992, National and Regional Maternity Mortality Review Committees
comprising such members and having such functions and powers necessary to
monitor, evaluate and assist the MOHFW in implementation of the Safe Mother-
hood program. The project would support Safe Motherhood by financing equip-
ment including disposable delivery kits, MCH supplies, civil works, vehicles,
drugs, vitamins, expert services and training. The incremental salaries of
additional staff, fees to TBAs, and operation and maintenance costs for cold
chain equipment and vehicles would be financed on a declining scale.
S. Institutional Systems DeveloPmmet (Proposed Outlay US$108.74 million)
3.27      The Child Survival and Safe Motherhood interventions will be
supplemented and supported by activities covering training including upgrading
of State/district level health management and planning capacity, information,
education and communications (IEC), management information system (MIS),
materials and supplies management (logistics) and health equipment mainte-
nance.
3.28      Training.  The existing training infrastructure for health personnel
will be used to impart training.  It will build on the successful efforts of
UNICEF in training for UIP under the Seventh Plan (para 2.18). Modifications
in training methodologies will be made to reflect the integrated approach of
health workers to their work in UIP Plus and Safe Motherhood. The strategy of
a closer link between training and service delivery proven effective in the
immunization program will be expanded to include UIP Plus and Safe Motherhood
elements. This includes national and State core resource training teams" and
the development and use of training mcdules for all interventions of the
program. Modules have been developed already for intensified Dai training,
and work begun on modules for ARI training. The project will assist in



- 30 -
improving modules developed earlier for immunization and ORT programs by
redesigning them to eliminate overlaps and inconsistencies. Modules and other
instructional materials for Safe Motherhood interventions will be designed
under the project. The status of trained family welfare personnel is shown in
Annex 5, Section 3. Also shown are the numbers and categories of workers to
be trained, as well as the topics, location and duration of training under the
project. These tr&ining strategies and modifications are consistent with the
policy, organizational and curriculum changes of the Government supported by
IDA under the Sixth Population Project. In 1989, the GOI issued the Essential
Elements of the Family Welfare Training Program which called for a new
emphasis on training (Annex 5. Section 4).
3.29      New skills training will cover immunization including cold chain,
stores management, surveillance, management of diarrhoeal diseases, control of
ARI, safe motherhood including referral for obstetric interventions when
appropriate, control of Vitamin A deficiency and anaemia, new born care, ante-
natal care, care at birth, birth spacing and timing. Specific safe motherhood
skills such as risk assessment and management, prevention and management of
obstetric emergencies and guidelines for referrals would be inicluded. In
addition to technical courses, training would also include a managerial
component which addresses the organization of the work of field staff,
supervision, and the planning and administration of health programs at State,
district and village levels. The District Training Team as developed under
and stupported under the Sixth and Seventh Population Projects, would be used
to deliver this training after their own training of trainers course provided
by the "Core Training Resource Groups." Training materials would be developed
to facilitate learning by senior and mid-level managers, paramedical workers
and TBAs. The State Institutes of Health and Family Welfare (SIHFWs) and the
Consortium of Training Institutions, including the National Institute of
Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW), will contribute in this area. Training and
orientation programs for Private Voluntary Organizations and other NGOs also
will be supported. Continuous in-service and on-the-job training would be
emphasized. It should be noted that all externally-fun(led population projects
include training components. IDA assisted Sixth and Seventh Population
Projects would together train by 1997, about 600,000 family welfare workers
through public sector training institutions as well as wfth the assistance of
private organizations especially NGOs and PVOs. The GOI has already agreed to
submit to IDA for review, annual training plans covering the eight States
covered by these two projects.
3.30      Work Routines.  Under the project, an effort will be made to
systematize the work of field workers so that; (a) they concentrate on those
tasks which have maximum impact on mortality; (b) tasks are divided between
village level workers to maximize their effectiveness; and (c) workers concen-
trate most of their time on those clients who are at most risk of death or
illness. With regard to (a), the UIP Plus and Safe Motherhood package
consists of those interventions which will have maximum impact on the death
rate. With regard to (b), Annex 18 sets out the proposed distribution of
tasks between the various workers at the village level and for (c), it is
proposed to introduce two new work patterns under the project. First, the
monthly immunization sessions already held throughout the country will be
expanded into immunization/MCH sessions, at which UIP Plus interventions such
as Vitamin A and IFA will be made available. Second, Health Workers (F) would
devote the majority of their home visit time to regular contact with pregnant



- 31 -
and lactating women, especially the newly pregnant. They would also offer a
weekly ante-natal care clinic at the subcenter. Altogether, these work
patterns would take up about half of the HW (P) time in a month. The use of
the remainder of the health worker's time would be decided at the local level.
according to local priorities.
3.31      The focus on regular visits to pregnant and lactating women is of
key importance to the Safe Motherhood component of the project for identifica-
tion of risk factors, education and early recognition and referral. Health
and nutrition education during pregnancy and lactation will also lay the
foundation for good child care and improved child survival. However, the
adoption of these new work patterns, which follow regular monthly schedules,
has to be made more compatible with the current approach to family planning
work, which is intensively undertaken between January and March each year.
Substantial field experience in India now shows that a stronger focus on
regular provision of MCH care does not threaten the achievement of family
planning targets. On the contrary, the mothers confidence in health workers
built up through the provision of good MCH care actually facilitates the
achievement of these targets, especially for temporary methods. Prior to
negotiations, the Government agreed with the States on the proposed work
routines in a series of workshops organized by the Center. During negotia-
tions, the Government provided an assurance that it shall, by January 1, 1992,
institute on a national basis, job descriptions, distribution of tasks and
work routine changes for health workers satisfactory to the Association.
3.32      Information, Education and Communications.  The GOI has identified
the need to focus IEC efforts, within the MCH program, on increasing utiliza-
tion of MCH services and enhancing client home care health management.
Additionally, there is need to promote national awareness and generate demand
for Safe Motherhood initiatives. Lessons learned from the TINP, UIP and ICDS
area projects indicate that well designed and implemented IEC activities can
effectively stimulete awareness and behavioral change in support of health
service program iniziatives (paras 2.14-2.18). Under the project, communica-
tion activities would have three pivotal dimensions: i.e. better interpersonal
communication by health functionaries to promote behavior change; use of
community groups, e.g. Mahila Mandals and Mahila Mukya Swasthya Sang Commit-
tees to increase home-based health compliance and utilization of services; and
use of the mass media for reinforcing health care promotion messages. This
component will directly support GOI's MCH service delivery objectives by: (a)
enhancing the quality of health services by upgrading and increasing the
communication skills of key health functionaries; (b) developing integrated
programs supporting communication strategies and activities for community
outreach and demand generation; (c) enhancing community education by health
functionaries through a mix of media approaches targeted at specific audience
segments; (f) increasing program efficiency and impact through use of opera-
tions research and ongoing monitoring and tracking exercises; (g) generating
and sustaining client demand for specific health care including ORT, attended
deliveries, antenatal and postpartum services. The primary focus of IEC
activities will be service-delivery units, (subcenters, primary health
centers, hospitals, clinics). IEC activities will inform the public about the
services available, how they can avail themselves of services and motivate
them to use the services. Service delivery units will be used as linformation
posts' for a range of MCH and other development interventions. Existing
institutions/organizations will be supported to function as a network of



- 32 -
"primary health care resource centers" which will be developed (with emphasis
on MCH) to disseminate/provide information about health care for people, as
well as health technologies which could be used by individuals and organi-
zations. Prior to negotiations, the Government discussed and agreed with the
States on the IEC strategy for the project. An outline of the IkC strategy is
given in Annex 19.
3.33      Program Monitoring.  The program monitoring systems developed for
UIP will be expanded and strengthened. UIP 'Plus' interventions will be
included and extension of the reporting system to all referral facilities and
hospitals will also assist in monitoring disease outbreaks (essential surveil-
lance) as well as reporting Safe Motherhood services provided. Data will be
computerized and collated at district level through The National Informatics
Center (NIC) system being installed throughout India, and appropriate data
will be sent to both State and central levels. Much of the development of
this system has already baen completed.  Formuuts and manuals have been
prepared, and pilot implementation started in several States. It is expected
to become fully operational by the end of the project and will greatly
facilitate prompt reporting, data analysis, program decision-making and the
development of reliable feedback systems. Guidelines for Field-level Record-
keeping are outlined in Annex 20. Special emphasis will also be given to MIS
expansion under the program that was developed by the Nationa?. Industrial
Development Corporation (NIDC) for UIP. The district-tested NIDC system
monitors availability of equipment, distribution, replacement needs, equipment
and down-time and will be extended to cover the entire MCH package. The
family welfare program has been geared to report services provided rather than
coverage levels achieved. UIP has therefore assessed program coverage through
coverage evaluation surveys (CES) rather than service statistics. Some 825 of
these surveys have been carried out in various States since 1985. The surveys
will be modified to include additional selected services and will include the
-ollowing areas: (a) coverage per se; (b) source of coverage; (c) reasons for
utilization; (d) knowledge, attitudes and practices on the part of clients;
(e) disease surveillance of polio and neonatal tetanus; (f) gender-specific
data; (g) prevalence of sexually-transmitted disease (STD) in women in
different comnunities; and (h) prevalence of morbidity in women in different
communities. Supporting studies to assess implementation of specific aspects
of the UIP "Plus" and Safe Motherhood packages would also be supported. In
addition, and complementary to computerized MIS systems at district level and
above, and to coverage evaluation surveys (CES), the rationalization of field-
level recordkeeping and the development of the capacity to calculate local
service coverage rates, which have been objectives of IDA-supported population
projects, will continue. To achieve these goals, the Government provided
assurances during negotiations that it shall: (a) review the management
information systems currently used in its health and family welfare programs
in order to assess their conformity wlth the functional guidelines agreed with
the Association (Annex 20); and (b) indicate to the Association by April 1,
1992, the modifications it will make to its systems to bring these into
conformity with such guidelines.
3.34      Materials and Sugplies Management.  The project would support the
provlslon of essential supplies such as disposable delivery kits, syringes and
needles, medicines and equipment. Steps will be taken to ensure national
level availability, supplemented by a well designed and tested logistics
system to ensure availability at the level of implementation. The system of



- 33 -
storage, distribution and logistic support developed under the Family Welfare
Program and UIP will be used to the extent possible. At present, IFA tablets
are located at Regional Medical Stores and released periodically to various
health facilities. The logistics for both ORS and Vitamin A differ in both
storage and delivery schedules. States would be given assistance for improved
systems of planning, ordering, monitoring stock levels and usage. Special
efforts will also be made to support supplies at the village, subcenter,
primary health center and first level of referral, for interventLons for Safer
Motherhood and child surviva. and health.  The WHO Guidelines "Essential
Obstetric Functions at First Referral Level' would be used. Facilities for
conducting deliveries for at-risk mothers will be strengthened by standardiz-
ing simple instruments and pharmaceutical sets for birth support, at subcenter
and primary health center levels. A Report of the Expert Committee on the
Standardization of Drugs and Equipment at Subcenters, PHC and CHCs has already
been prepared, reviewed and found satisfactory by the appraisal mission. The
medicines recommended for all interventions have been agreed to by the Indian
Medical Association (IMA) and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR).
The quality of medicines which are manufactured, marketed and sold in India
are ensured by the Drug Directorate. T'he process by which drug quality is
ensured in India is outlined in Annex 21. Self-explanatory wall posters which
go into each standard set which will show what each medicine and its supply
is, and what are the indications and precautions for its use. These will be
developed so that they are correctly used by health workers. A 'visual
formulary' for each State on basic drugs/supplies showing use, indications,
precautions and related aspects will be developed.
3.35      Health Equipment Maintenance.  During 1985-89, 26,000 ice lined
refrigerators and freezers, 125 walk-in-freezers and coolers plus other non-
electrical cold chain equipment were provided. Support would be provided to
the State Governments for maintaining and repairing this equipment to ensure
potent vaccines for the immunization program. This would be an expansion of a
program supported by UNICEF under the Seventh Five-Year Plan. During 1991-95,
support will also be given to: (a) strengthen and further develop present
State Health Transport Organizations (SHTOs), and Health Equipment Repair
Organizations (HEROs); (b) improve the efficiency of maintenance, personnel,
managers, supervisors and technicians through training and proper guidance;
(c) improve the efficiency of spare parts management; (d) cooperate with the
State governments in expanding the network of Mobile Maintenance Units (MMUs)
and Static Maintenance Units (SMUs), auxiliary workshops and central workshops
for motor vehicles as well as for hoalth equipment repair; (e) assist states
in formulating their Plans of Action for improvement of existing maintenance
facilities; and (f) ensure proper maintenance and speedy repair of health
equipment and cold chain components; and organize HER services for the
maintenance and repair of cold chain components such as walk-in-coolers, deep
freezers, refrigerators and cold boxes. The UNICEF supported program will be
further reviewed and appropriate steps will be taken to strengthen and improve
maintenance. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
shall, by April 1, 1993, transfer the maintenance of the cold chain system to
the States.
3.36      Community Participation.  Given the complexity of the UIP Plus and
Safe Motherhood interventions, the project would include a community partici-
pation dimension to implementation. Community participation is defined as a
practical and systematic process of involving communities in the attempt to



- 34 -
reach project goals; i.e. increased child survival and reductions in maternal
mortality and morbidity. The process involves the integration of national and
State macro-planning objectives with micro-level district/village perspec-
tives. Past experience with both government and private sector-supported
health projects demcnstrate that a well-planned community participation
initiative can be built in and successfully implemented in a project. The
project would therefore include the following indicative activities which
would necessarily vary by State and district given the strength, interests and
capabilities of the various interest groups and communities. Activities
include the design and development of a series of community participation
strategies addressing: (a) Supporting Group Potential: Voluntary/NGO sector,
organized sector, industry/business sector, religious communities; (b) Common
Themes: emergency transport, scheduled caste/tribe, backward sector issues,
waiting homes, income-generation; and (c) Work-related systems: Prior to
negotiations, the Government discussed community participation as an integral
part of implementation with the States during workshops. A draft outline of a
community participation plan is included in the project file. During negotia-
tions, the Government provided an assurance that it shall cause the States to
institute district planning including community participation based on MOHFW
guidelines acceptable to the Association. This Plan would include an evalua-
tion of on-going activities and a description of the activities planned for
the new year. The project would finance the services of local consultants, as
well as the specific agreed activities to be undertaken by PVOs, NGOs and
community groups including Mahila and Yuvak Mandals and Panchayats.
3.37      To improve the quality of service delivery in the child survival and
safe motherhood programs, the staffing of family welfare institutions would
have to be strengthened. Both family planning and MCH programs have expanded
under the Seventh Five-Year Plan and training undertaken to enhance their
skills. Under the proposed program, a number of key staff would be appointed
and or deployed to complete the staffing. A Schedule of Deployment of Key
Additional Staff is given in Annex 22. During negotiations, the Government
provided an assurance that it shall appoint staff or cause the States to
appoint key additional staff according to a schedule satisfactory to the
Association. The project would support further development of family welfare
institutional systems to more effectively deliver child survival and safe
motherhood programs by financing civil works, equipment, vehicles, local
training and consultants, and supplies, operation and maintenance, and the
salaries of additional staff.
3.38      Part of the proposed project will be carried out in the State of
Jammu and Kashmir, which includes areas over which India and Pakistan have
been in dispute since 1947. In making the proposed credit to India, IDA does
not intend to prejudice the final determination of the claims of the parties
involved.
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Costs
4.01      Summaries of Costs.  The total cost of the project is Rs. 10,687.70
million or US$329.58 million equivalent. A breakdown of costs by component and
categories of expenditure is summarized in Tables 4.1 and 4.2. Detailed costs



- 35 -
by component, categories of expenditure and time are given in Annex 23.
4.02        Basis of Cost Estimates.   The cost of the project is essentially
equal to the incremental costs between the proposed outlays on the national
MCH program 1991-1995 and the actual expenditures on that program for the
Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985-1990). In calculating that increment, ongoing
liabilities for salaries, the costs for the Medical Termination of Pregnancy
Program as well as the costs of customs duties and taxes have been excluded.
The detailed calculation of project costs is shown in Annex 24.
Table 4.1: Costs by Component
Rupm  (ailIion)                   USS (Million)          X of Uaso
Component               Local     For-ign     Total         Local    Foreisn   Total      Costs
Child Survival            2,676.64     466.00    3,130.64      109.60     18.65    128.31     38.89
Sate Motherhood           2,032.12    839.89    2,872.01       68.28      18.93     97.21     29.09
Systems Development       2,484.90     168.84    2,865.24      101.84      6.90    108.74     32.68
BASE COSTS            7,192.66     968.28    8,165.89      294.78     89.48    884.26    100.0Q
Contingencies
Physical                582.03      91.88      678.86       23.86      8.76     27.61 n.20
Price                 1.408.41     461.54    1,867.95      -36.58      8.29    -32.29     .9.66
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       9.181.10   1.6W.60   10,67.70       288.06     46.65    829.58     e8.60
Table 4.2: Costs by Categories of Expenditure
Rupee (MIillon)                     MlUSS (Million)         3 oF bsoo
Component               Local    Foreign    Tot al    Foreign   Total                     Costa3
Investment Costs
Civil Works                  610.27     62.49      572.76       20.91      2.57     28.46      7.02
Equipment                    809.68    482.18    1,241.66       88.18     17.71     60.l'9    16.28
Vehicles                     168.92     18.26      182.18        6.80      0.67      7.47      2.28
Training                     910.81     27.91      938.72       87.83      1.14    s8 47      11.61
MCH Materials
and Supplies                 878.82     41.10      414.42       16.80      1.68     16.98      5.08
Vaccines                     987.98    108.78    1,967.67       40.49      4.48     44.96     13.46
Vitamins                      64.02     85.69       89.71        2.21      1.46      3.67      1.Of
Medicines                  1,718.00    189.17    1,907.17       70.41      7.76     78.18     2.8039
Local Consultants            896.86       -        895.86       16.28       -       16.23      4.86
Disposable Delivery Kits      82.97     20.56      108.62        8.40      0.84      4.24      1.27
Subtotal               6,008.67    984.08   6,942.75       246.26     88.28    284.54    06.12
Recurrent Costs
Salaries of Additional
Staff                        642.82       -        E42.82       22.26       -       22.26      6.65
Reporting Foos to TOAs       207.46       -        207.4Q        8.60       -        8.60      2.54
Consumable Materials          88.42      8.28       41.70        1.86      0.86      1.71      0.62
Operation and Maintenance    400.29    20.87       421.16       16.41      0.85     17.26      6.17
Subtotal               1,188.99     29.16    1,218.14       48.62      1.20     49.72     14.00
BASE COSTS             7,192.68    968.28    8,166.89      294.78     39.48    884.26    100.OO
Contingencies
Physical                 682.08     91.88      678.86       28.856      .76    27.61       8.26
Price                  1,406.41    461.64    1,867.96      -86.68      8.29    -82.29     =9.03
Subtotal               1,988.44    648.87    2,681.81      -11.78      7.05     -4.68    =1.40
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        9.181.10 1,506.60  10.857.70        288.05     46.58    829.58    08.80
NOTES:  Subtots  m a y not add to totas I du to rounding.
Costs Include taxes and dutioe.



- 36 -
4.03     Customs Duties and Taxes.  All imported goods are subject to customs
duties and taxes. The estimated cost of the project includes import duties
and taxes estimated at about US$15.90 million (4.11).
4.04     Contingency Allowances.  Estimated project costs take account of
physical and price escalation contingencies. Physical contingencies are
estimated at 102 of all physical components and 5 for salaries of incremental
staff, training costs, consultants and operation and maintenance. Price
escalation contingencies are estimated as follows: for civil works, goods,
salaries, and technical assistance--foreign costs: 3.2S in FY92 through FY95;
local costs: 7.0 in FY92, 6.52 in FY93 and 5.51 in FY94 and 95.
4.05     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
of US$46.53 million is calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange
proportions as follows: (a) civil works 11Z1 (b) vehicles 92; (c) equipment
35X; (d) drugs and vaccines 102; (e) vitamins 402; and (g) operation and
maintenance of costs at 52.
B. Financing Plan
4.06     The cost of the national MCH program for the 1991-95 period is
US$922.63 million. The estimated cost of the project is US$329.58 million.
IDA and UNICEF would co-finance the project in parallel, with an IDA Credit of
US$214.53 million equivalent and a UNICEF grant of about US$67.80 million.
Much of the UNICEF funding would come from bilateral donors. Total external
financing would cover about 902 of project cost net of taxes and duties but
would only cover about 312 of the national MCH program for the 1991-95 period.
The GOI would finance the remaining project costs of US$47.3 million and all
taxes, equal to US$15.9 million. The financing plan by categories of expendi-
ture is shown in Annex 25. The UNICEF Grant (Plan of Operations 1991-1995)
was signed in May 1991. The fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the UNICEF agreement will be a condition of effectiveness of
the Credit.
C. Recurrent Costs and Sustainability Implications
4.07     When the Project is completed in FY95, it would require about
Rs. 1,524.2 million (US$44.8 million) annually in recurrent costs. These
expenditures would be borne fully by GOI. Assuming no growth in GOI expendi-
tures, except for the proposed investments in the project, it is estimated
that GOI expenditure on MCH would be about Rs. 31,569.80 million (US$1,291.38
million) for the Ninth Five-Year Plan Period (1995-1999). This would be
significantly less than the growth experienced previously from the Fifth to
Sixth and Sixth to Seventh Five-Year Plans. In this case, the recurrent cost
implication of the proposed project would be 3.42 of the projected 1995-1999
expenditures on maternal and child health. In addition, the recurrent cost
impact of the proposed project is equal to an almost negligible share of total
present GOI expenditures on health and family welfare. Additional information
on the calculation of project incremental costs is detailed in Annex 24. As
noted above, project costs and related external financing, were determined on
the basis of plan budget allocations to the national MCH program at certain
levels during the 1991-95 period. Thus, during negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that it shall: (a) maintain the levels of planned budget-
ary allocations for the National MCH program as agreed with the Association



- 37 -
for fiscal years 1991 through 1995; (b) consult with the Association before
proposing any major changes to such allocations; and (c) by November 30 of
each year commencing in 1992, furnish to the Association for its review, the
annual plan budget allocation for such program for the following fiscal year.
4.08     Sustainability.  Under the present financial circumstances in India,
it would be difficult to present a quantifiable set of indicators ensuring
availability of financial resources to sustain family welfare activities at
meaningful levels beyond the project's life cycle. However, in addition to
government assurances, several qualitative factors provide positive indica-
tions of program sustainability: (a) the proposed allocations for maternal and
child health represent a small share of total expenditures on health and
family welfare; (b) the Central Government finances one hundred percent of
capital and recurrent expenditures of the FWP/MCH program. All liabilities
will continue to be paid by the central government from its Plan budget.
Inasmuch as central government revenues are more stable than those of State
governments, the family welfare activities are less likely to experience major
fluctuations in resource allocations; (c) the immunization program (UIP) is
one among six special schemes comprising the 'Technology Mission' for which
the Central government has made a commitment to allocate financial resources
on a priority basis; (d) the Central Government launched the FWP program with
a distinct orientation to maternal and child health to redress the growing
inequitable distribution of health expenditures as States government exmendi-
tures favored second and tertiary level services (mainly hospitals) at the
expense of primary, preventive care services. Family Welfare activities
disproportionately benefit the poorer segment of the population as FWP
expenditures represent a larger share of total health expenditures in states
with lower per capita income compared with the more endowed States; and (e)
successful implementation of an integrated package of MCH activities under the
project would set in place an effective infrastructure across the country,
supported by institutional mechanisms, information, monitoring and evaluation
systems and trained staff that would not require duplication in future years,
thus easing the pressure for continued increases in financial outlays. The
cost of maintaining these efforts would increase but at much lower levels than
initial program set-up. In addition, the need to sustain the MCH program will
be especially important in times of fiscal constraint to assist in mitigating
the consequences of macroeconomic stabilization. Further details on project
sustainability are outlined in Annex 26.
D. Status of Preparation
4.09     Design and Construction of Health (PHCs, CHCs) and Storage Facilities
for Safe Motherhood. Preliminary designs for the construction of storage
facilities and additions to existing health facilities for the Safe Motherhood
Program and training already exist. The amount of additional facilities
required is based on the results of the Facilities Survey (para 3.25).
4.10     Sites.  Sites for the storage facilities have been identified in 15
districts. The existing health facilities to be extended for the purposes of
Safe Motherhood have been identified through the Facility Survey (para 3.24).
4.11     Equipment, Vehicle, Drugs. Vaccines and Consumable Material.  Lists
have been prepared by GOI and UNICEF and are based on WHO standards in use by
MOHFW and UNICEF. These were reviewed and found acceptable during appraisal.
4.12     Local Consultants, Studies, Training Plans, and Operational Research
A significant amount of preparation has already been completed by GOI and



- 38 -
UNICEF in these areas. Draft terms of reference for local consultants have
been prepared and the detailed work of developing curricula for the various
types of training has begun. Training and communication needs assessments as
well as baseline surveys have been started in some States as part of the on-
going IDA-assisted Population projects. A list of operational research topics
has been prepared. Revised work routines and schedules for health workers
have been prepared.  Draft IEC, Community mobilization, Safe Motherhood and
UIP "Plus' Guidelines have also been developed, and are being discussed with
States/districts prior to the development of district-specific implementation
programs. Arrangements for the procurement of goods and services are in place
(para 4.22-4.28) as is the logistics system to transport and store the drugs,
medicines and other supplies.
S. Project Implementation
4.13     Administration.  The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW)
would be responsible for implementing the project. It has a Division headed
by a Joint Secretary, which is responsible for coordinating and monitoring the
implementation of all externally-aided projects. At present, the Joint
Secretary in charge of this Division also has the responsibility for the
management of the Maternal and Child Health component of the National Family
Welfare Program. Coordination of activities between the various Divisions of
the Ministry especially as regards Safe Motherhood is being enhanced under the
project. An outline of the mechanism of coordination between MOHFW and the
Women and Child Welfare Department (WCD) and the ICDS program is shown in
Annex 27. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
shall (a) maintain its Maternal and Child Health Care Advisory Committee and
(b) by January 1, 1992 institute mechanisms, satisfactory to the Association,
for purposes of coordinating the activities of the MCH program and Integrated
Child Development Services Program under the project (Annex 26).
4.14     At the State level, the project would be implemented by the respec-
tive Directorates of Health and Family Welfare under the administrative
control of the State Secretary of Health and Family Welfare. No special
Project Implementation Units (PIU) are envisaged to facilitate the implementa-
tion since the project represents a part of the program for which they have
been established to implement. Additional staff would need to be appointed to
cover the expansion of activities (Annex 22). The project also gives special
attention to the generation of pro'ect implementation ideas and modalities
based on the differences among and between various districts. The need for
this flexibility is recognized as each district which is selected for UIP
*Plusw and Safe Motherhood would have to develop a district-specific plan. The
Government discussed and agreed on the guidelines for district planning with
specific States prior to negotiations. During negotiations, the Government
provided an assurance that it shall cause the Statea to institute district
planning including community participation and civil works programs based on
MOHFW guidelines acceptable to the Association (Annex 28). In addition, to
facilitate the execution of the project, the Union Government will obtain from
each state participating in the project a Letter of Undertaking, indicating
that it will execute its part of the project in a manner consistent with the
project design.
4.15     Civil works.  For the implementation of the civil works portion of
the project, architectural designs will be prepared by consultant architects
and construction would be carried out by the PWD in the States. During



- 39 -
negotiations, the GOI provided an assurance that it shall cause the States to
(a) institute district planning including civil works programs; and (b)
provide the required budgetary support for undertaking civil works under the
project.
F. Monitoring, Evaluation and Operational Research
4.16     At present, the MOHFW collects information on all Schemes which make
up the national family welfare program. This level of monitoring would be
further supplemented under the program. Currently, each scheme has some form
of built-in evaluation, and the implementing institutions utilize these to
make adjustments when and if necessary in their delivery of services. The en-
hanced MIS (para 3.33) would be designed to upgrade this function. Overall
monitoring and evaluation, i.e., use of credit proceeds, achievement of
objectives, etc., would be undertaken by MOHFW with the assistance of other
specialized institutions attached to the MOHFW. As part of its normal
reporting responsibility, the MOHFW would submit Semi-Annual Progress Reports
to IDA. The format and content of these reports would be devised jointly, and
would have as their principal objective, the adequate monitoring of activi-
ties. As regards evaluation, the Government has discussed with the Associa-
tion, key indicators (Annex 29) and also indicated a willingness to undertake
special studies i.e. operational research to determine whether program
objectives are being achieved. Rapid Low Cost Studies (RLCS) as a technique
to achieve this end would be utilized. UNICEF has used this mechanisms as
part of the UIP monitoring system. Under the project, a number of these
studies would be undertaken. The Operational Research Program of UNICEF and
proposed studies to be undertaken during the project are outlined in Annex 30.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it shall (a)
utilize the key performance indicators satisfactory to the Association for
evaluating the progress of the project (Annex 29); (b) by January 1, 1992,
furnish to the Association for review, a phased program of operational
research and studies, including proposed implementation arrangements (Annex
30); (c) furnish to the Association annual monitoring reports and end-of-
project summative evaluation reports focusing on the impact of the project;
and (d) take necessary corrective action as might be required in implementa-
tion of the integrated package of services of UIP 'Plus' and Safe Motherhood
Programs to achieve project objectives.
G. Disbursements
4.17     Disbursement Percentages.  The IDA Credit would be disbursed against
90? of expenditures on civil works, 10O? of foreign CIF and local ex-factory
cost or 802 of other local costs of equipment, vehicles, medicines, vaccines,
vitamins, IEC materials, disposable delivery kits and MCH medical supplies,
90? of consultant services and training and an average of about 75? (902 of
local expenditures until March 31, 1993 and 602 thereafter) of total incremen-
tal expenditures on salaries of additional staff, reporting fees for TBAs, and
operation and maintenance costs of cold chain equipment and vehicles. Since
IDA is financing the incremental costs of a large program, disbursements could
have been designed so that it would be disbursing against a small share of the
total program. However, this would have resulted in a very large number of
expenditures, especially those covering operating costs. Disbursement
percentages have therefore been used in the disbursement schedule which are
consistent with those used for population and nutrition projects in India. In
order to ensure that IDA remains engaged in the project over its entire length



- 40 -
and does not disburse a disproportionate share of the credit on salaries, the
cumulative amount of money that can be disbursed on the project each year has
been capped; the cumulative amount of total disbursements which can be used
for incremental operating costs has also been capped. In addition, IDA would
review with GOI actual expenditure on these programs each year as well as the
planned annual expenditure for the next year (para 4.07). Together with the
disbursement caps this will ensure that IDA financing is confined to the
incremental costs of program development (Annex 31). During negotiations, it
was agreed that disbursements against expenditures incurred by any State would
be made only after the Government has obtained and submitted to the Associa-
tion, a Letter of Undertaking from that State.
4.18     Reguired Documentation.  Disbursements in respect of contracts for
civil works, goods, consultant's services and training valued less than
US$75,000 equivalent and for incremental operating costs would be made against
statements of expenditure (SOEs) certified by MOHFW. Documentation would be
retained by the MOHFW and the States and made available for review by IDA
during the course of supervision missions. All other disbursements would be
made against fully documented withdrawal applications.
4.19     Special Account.  In order to accelerate disbursements in respect of
IDA's share of expenditures pre-financed by GOI, and in order to allow for
direct payment of other eligible local and foreign expenditures, a Special
Account would be opesed in the Reserve Bank of India with an authorized
allocation of US$18.0 million equivalent to cover four months of expected
requirements for IDA financed items.
4.20     Retroactive Financing up to US$21.0 million, or 9.8Z of the proposed
Credit, is recommended to cover eligible expenditures after November 30, 1990.
Detailed discussion of the 1990/91 MCH program was held in October 1990.
Procurement arrangements, as well as the purposes for vihich the items were
being used were reviewed and found appropriate.
4.21     Disbursement Profile.  The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed
largely over four years with a small amount in the fifth year. This is
realistic given the fact that the project covers four years of development of
the national MCH program. The appraisal mission carefully examined the
expenditures incurred after November 30, 1990 and evaluated those investments
which are planned for the four years (April 1991 - March 1995) to determine
their level of preparedness. Specific emphasis and analysis was given to the
procurement of vaccines and drugs, the limited size of the civil works program
and to the use of WHO approved standard lists of equipment and medical
supplies. The project is expected to be completed on March 31, 1995 and the
Credit closed on September 30, 1995. The standard profile for population
(Family Planning and HCH) projects for all Regions is eight and a half years
and in Asia is nine years. The nature of the project, the status of prepa-
ration, and the measures have been taken to expedite procurement and disburse-
ment reinforce the justification for a four-year disbursement profile.
H. Procurement
4.22     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3.  Annex 32
outlines in greater detail, the justification for the methods of procurement



- 41 -
to be used. Contracts for civil works (US$23.50 million) would be carried out
by force account. Because of the small value of contracts (maximum value of
US$0.1 million equivalent), no foreign firm is expected to participate.
4.23     Contracts for equipment, medical supplies, IEC materials and pharmac-
euticals (US$147.75 million) ,w.uld be procured partly by IC- from UNICEF's
central stores overseas and partly through LCB or other pr.cedures acceptable
to IDA. Procurement would be bulked to the maximum extent possible and any
individual contract exceeding US$200,000 equivalent would be procured using
ICB. The average size of each package will be small however, and it is likely
that the only ICB package will be for glass syringes. For all contracts over
US$200,000 procured using ICB, a 15? domestic preference or the prevailing
import duties, whichever is lower, would be granted to qualifying local
manufacturers. Because MOHFW is attempting to standarize the type of four-
wheel drive off-road vehicle it uses, vehicles (US$7.40 million) would be
procured by UNICEF using direct contracting procedures to ensure a reliable
supply of spares and availability of maiatenance.
4.24     Vaccines.  The justification for the methods to be used for the
procurement of specific vaccines (US$44.6 million) is described in greater
detail in Annex 32. In line with 'WHO's policy objective that developing
countries like India develop a domestic manufacturing capacity for essential
vaccines, contracts for all vaccines except for BCG and measles, regardless of
value, would be procured mainly from local WHO approved sources using LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. Only shortfalls in local supply would be met by
foreign suppliers selected using international shopping procedures. The use
of LCB is justified because the risk of degradation and loss from heat
variations or delays during delivery to the approximately 120,000 regional
subcenters where the vaccines are to be administered mandates use of sources
located as close to the end-v.er as possible. All vaccines must be shipped in
a refrigerated state, and even a brief exposure to heat or extreme cold,
drastically reduce their shelf-life. To be competitive, a foreign supplier
would have to invest in additional transportation and 'cold-chain, equipment
to keep the vaccines properly refrigerated from the point they leave the plant
abroad, during air shipment to India, clearance through Customs and up to the
point of delivery at the regional walk-in coolers. It would also have to
accept the risk of loss resulting from any delays that occur during the
initial delivery and customs clearance process prior to handover to the GOI.
LCB will also allow greater flexibility in packaging and labeling, adjustment
of volumes to reflect programmed dosages and maintenance of vaccine invento-
ries at or below the cold storage holding capacity. Adequate quality controls
are maintained by the MOHFW and WHO, and the prices of all locally manufac-
tured vaccines on the WHO list of "essential vaccines" are controlled so they
are reasonable.
4.25     MOHFW would be allowed to procure BCG and measles vaccines (US$7.61
million) from the sole WHO-approved manufacturers of the strains of vaccines
needed for the program using direct contracting procedures. Limitation to
local sources is justified for the same reasons of WHO policy and logistics as
outlined above. There is only one WHO-approved manufacturer of BCG in India;
BCG Laboratories, India. Regarding measles, there is only one source in the
world of the E-Z strain which is recommended by WHO for use in the program, a
Yugosla'-ian firm which has a collaboration agreement with an Indian manufac-
turer.



- 42 -
Table 4.8s Procurement ArrngMnt.
Proiursment Eements                 toLB               OHR       i        MA
Civil Works                          -          -       28.60      -        28.60
(21.14)            (21.14)
Equipent                             -        14.90     19.00      -        82.90
(11.92)   (14 90)             (26.82)
(8.00]
Cold Chain Equipment                 -         8.80     12.00               20.80
(7.04)   (12.00]              (7.04)
Vehicles                             -         7.40       -        -         7.40
(6.92)                        (6.92)
Training                             -          -        6.00    81.10      86.10
(4.60)   (7.74)   (12.24)
t22.50]
Local Consultants                    -          -         -      16.20      16.20
(ita34    (11.84)
(2. 0]
Information Materils and
MCI Supplies                       5.85       3.26      7.00      -        18.10
(4.68)    (2.60)    (7.00]              (7.10)
Medicines                            -       60.95      17.00      -        77.96
(48.86)   (13.60)             (61.90)
vitamins                             -         8.90       -        -         8.90
(8.12)                        (8.12)
vaccines                             -        32.60     12.00      -        44.60
(26.08)   (12.00]             (26.08)
Disposable Delivery Kits             -          -        4.40                4.40
(8.62)             (8.52)
Salaries of Incremental Staff        -          -         -      20.80      20.80
(15.60)   (15.60)
Reporting Fes to TBAs                -          -         -       6.00       8.00
(4.60)    (4.60)
E20.00]
Consumable Materials                 -          -         -       1.70       1.70
El.70]
Operation and Maintenance            -          -         -      16.28      16.23
(8.44)    (8.44)
(5.00]
TOTAL                               6.865   181.80      98.90    98.08    829.68
IDA                                 4.68    105.07      67.16    47.62    214.65
UNICEF                               -          -      E84.00]  (88.801   E67.80]
0OI                                 1.17      26.78      7.74    11.81      47.26
NOTE: Figuros in parentheses repreosnt Bank/IDA financing.
Figures In brackets represent UNICEF finandlng.



- 43 -
4.26     Vitamins (US$3.90 million).  The procurement of Vitamin A will be
through LCB procedures because of the specific nature of the program. Vitamin
A in liquid rather than capsule form is preferred because of ease of adminis-
tration to young childrer. during clinic visits, to ensure higher compliance
and because capsules are subject to degradation under extreme temperatures.
The liquid formulation is not available elsewhere in the world.
4.27     Contracts for the purchase of items valued at below US$200,000
equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to
IDA up to an aggregate of US$69.90 million equivalent. Other items valued at
less than US$50,000 equivalent each, may be procured up to an aggregate of
US$28.0 milllon oquivAlent using international and/or local shopping.  All
items procured using ICB, as well as the first three LCB contracts estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$75,000 or more per contract each year for
vaccines, medical supplies, vitamins and pharmaceuticals will be subject to
IDA's prior review. Approximately 351 of the value of the IDA Credit will be
subject to prior review. With the exception of the pharmaceutical ORS, which
will be pu.rchased directly by the State Government from the numerous local
suppliers available regionally, procurement for the IDA-financed portion of
the Credit will be handled by MOHFW in conjunction with the Government's
supply agency, the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal (DGS&D) or
with technical assistance from other qualified agencies, such as UNICEF.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it shall, by
Decemiber 31, 1991, enter into an agreement with UNICEF, satisfactory to the
Association, for assistance in: (a) the procurement of selected equipment and
vehicles; and (b) development and institution of a program to improve the
capacity of MOHFW and the States regarding procurement and logistics for other
equipment and materials necessary for the effective implementation of the MCH
program.
I. Accounting and Auditing
4.28     The project would be subject to normal GOI accounting and auditing
procedures which are considered satisfactory to IDA. The audit reports for
the on-going population projects are in a form satisfactory to IDA and would
be used for this project. The MOHFW would maintain a separate project
account, and a semi-annual statement of expenditures provided to IDA. During
negotiations, the 6vI and each State agreed that: (a) accounts and financial
statements of the project including Statements of Expenditure (SOE) and the
Special Account for each fiscal year would be prepared and audited by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) documentation supporting statements of
expenditures would be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practic-
es, be maintained at least one year after the completion of the audit for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was made and a separate opinion on
SOEs be included in the annual audit; and (c) certified copies of the audited
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year, in the form of a
Consolidated Report certified by the auditor, would be furnished to IDA as
soon as available, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year. All of the audited accounts of on-going Population and Nutrition
Projects which are due have been received by IDA.



- 44 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01     Since the proposed project would cover the national MCH program for
the 1991-95 period with some retroactivity, there are several Jmmediate
benefits. First, in the absence of sustaining the immunization program,
another 250,000 children would die from tetanus, 500,000 would die from
measles and 170,000 would risk paralysis each year due to poliomyelitis.
Second, the project would assist in sustaining the level of MCH services
during a period when the scale of publicly financed social services could be
severely and negativel7 impacted by GOI budgetary constraints. Third, the
project would contribute to a GOI review of its current national MCH policies
and to appropriate adjustments in terms of content, targeting and delivery.
Fourth, the project period allows the GOI the time and opportunity to under-
take vigorous trials at the district level of the UIP *Plus' and Safe Mother-
hood models which are presently being developed. The ultimate long-term
benefit of the project is that it is a necessary precursor to a more efficient
and effective national family welfare program which would lead to significant
reductions of infant, young child and maternal morbidity, mortality, and
disability thereby enhancing the quality of life. Reduced maternal and infant
mortality rates would have a significant favorable impact on fertility through
contributing to the willingness to accept the small family norm. The program
wr-ld alleviate women's suffering through improved care and expanded access to
health care. It would increase mothers' survival, which is crucial to the
well-being of children, whose mortality rate increases by 250Z when a mother
dies. Giver the significant role women play in economic production and social
development, the death of a woman during her most productive years imposes a
substantial loss on the family and society. The improved health of adults
would show rewards in the productivity of labor, and as morbidity decreases,
productivity would improve. Healthier children would learn more, and dropout
and repetition would decrease hence increasing the efficiency of the school
system. The reduced disease burden of women and children will allow for
better care of the truly sick by reducing the workload of health staff and
allowing scarce resources to be directed to those most in need. Finally, the
direct cost benefits are substantial, since the costs of treating the compli-
cations of pregnancy and childbirth are far higher than the costs of prevent-
ing such complications and/or treating them at an early stage.
B. Risks
5.02     There are some risks to the project.  It calls for a significant
increase in the number of activities to be undertaken at the point of service
delivery as well as a change in the way the Health Worker and Supervisor
perform their tasks. While training can go a long way in making this possible
and the GOI has demonstrated under the Se%enth Plan with UIP that it can
mobilize and train over 2.5 million workers, to deliver immunizations promot-
ing enhancements in service quality on the scaie and depth proposed would be
challenging. Previous IDA support to the GOI under the Population Projects to
assist in the development of regular on-the-job training supported by appro-
priate supervision should alleviate this risk. The work to be undertaken by
GOI in conjunction with the States to review the job descriptions and work
routines of health workers, particularly the female Multipurpose Worker as
well as the flexibility in project design and the close monitoring devices



- 45 -
which are built in to each component, will also go a long way in minimizing
this risk. The project also builds on the extensive collaboration between GOI
and UNICEF and the fact that UNICEF has a wide network of offices and person-
nel in India who will actively participate in project monitoring and supervi-
sion. There are also risks associated with the Safe Motherhood Program. If
there is insufficient commitment at the local level because of socio-cultural
and other traditions, some implementation aspects of the Safe Motherhood
program may be delayed. The project would include activities to increase
awareness and action through involvement of the Panchayats, Women's Groups
including Mahilla Mandals and Private Voluntary Organizations. In addition,
IEC programs would be designed to specifically address some local customs
which are dangerous to women's survival. Also, local communities, through
their representatives and/or with the assistance of PVOs, would be mobilized
as an integral part of the planning for Safe Motherhood in that community.
Other risks relate to the capacity of individual States to implement programs
in a timely manner. These include delays in procurement and difficulties in
quickly developing appropriate IEC and training programs. Appropriate
measures have been taken and are in place to see that these risks are mini-
mized. These include the joint development of detailed action plans for
training, logistics, IEC, social mobilization and procurement, and agreeing
with GOI on the implementation phasing of these action plans. IDA has and is
continuing to support the strengthening of State capacity to deliver family
welfare services under seven Population (Family Welfare) projects. Finally,
there are questions of sustainability. The proposed project deals with
Government's highest health priority and the annual ,llocation for the MCH
program would be agreed with IDA. In addition, the recurrent cost implica-
tions of the project would be a negligible proportion of total GOI expenditure
on health. These factors should reduce concerns about sustainability.
VI. AGREEMENTS RE&CHED
6.01     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
shall:
(a) (i) commencing in 1992, prepare and submit to the Association for
review and comment by January 31 of each year, a Safe Motherhood plan
based on the Model Safe Motherhood Plan agreed with IDA and an Annual
Plan each regarding implementation for the UIP Program (para 3.08),
UIP "Plus' Program (para 3.15), and the Safe Motherhood Program (para
3.25); and (ii) take into account the comments and suggestions, if
any, made by the Association in the implementation of the said
programs;
(b) (i) ensure that no district is included in the project unless it has
completed a district UIP 'Plus, Plan based on guidelines agreed with
the Association (para 3.15);
(c) establish in consultation with the Association by April 1, 1992, Na-
tional and Regional Maternity Mortality Review Committees comprising
such members and having such functions and powers necessary to
monitor, evaluate and assist MOHFW in the implementation of the Safe
Motherhood Program (para 3.26);



- 46 -
(d) by January 1, 1992, institute on a national basis distribution of
tasks and work routine changes for health workers satisfactory to the
Association (para 3.31);
(e) (i) review the management information systems currently used in
health and family welfare programs in order to assess their conformi-
ty with functional guidelines agreed with the Association; and (ii)
indicate to the Association by April 1, 1992, the modifications it
will make to its systems to bring these into conformity with such
guidelines (para 3.33);
(f) by April 1, 1993 transfer the maintenance of the cold chain system to
the States and Union Territories (para 3.35);
(g) appoint or cause the States to appoint key additional staff according
to a schedule satisfactory to the Association (para 3.37);
(h) ti) maintain the levels of planned budgetary allocations for the
National MCH program as agreed with the Association for fiscal years
1991 through 1995; (ii) consult with the Association before proposing
any major changes to such allocations; and (iii) by November 30 of
each year commencing in 1992, furnish to the Association for its
review, the annual plan budget allocation for such program for the
following fiscal year (para 4.07);
(i) ti) maintain its Maternal and Child Health Care Advisory Committee;
and (ii) by January 1, 1992 institute mechanisms satisfactory to the
Association, for purposes of coordinating the activities of the MCH
Program and the Integrated Child Development Services Program under
the project (para 4.13);
'J) cause the States and Union Territories to institute district planning
including community participation and civil works programs based on
MOHFW guidelines acceptable to the Association (paras 3.36, 4.14,
4.15);
(k) cause the States and Union Territories to provide the required
budgetary support for undertaking civil works under the project (para
4.15);
Cl) (i) utilize key performance indicators satisfactory to the Associa-
tion for evaluating the progress of the project; (ii) by January 1,
1992, furnish to the Association for review, a phased program of
operational research and studies, including proposed implementation
arrangements; (iii) furnish to the Association annual monitoring
reports and end-of-project summative evaluation reports focussing on
the impact of the project; and (iv) take necessary corrective action
on the integrated package of services of UIP 'Plus' and Safe Mother-
hood Programs tc achieve project objectives (para 4.16);
(n) obtain and submit to the Association, Letters of Undertaking from
each participating State and Union Territory (para 4.17);
(n) by December 31, 1991, enter into an agreement with UNICEF, satisfac-
tory to the Association, for assistance in (i) the procurement of



- 47 -
selected equipment and vehicles; and (ii) development and institution
of a program to improve the capacity of MOHFW and the DOHFV regarding
procurement and logistics for other equipment and materials necessary
for the effective implementation of the MCH program (para 4.27); and
(o) prepare accounts and financial statements for the project and State-
ments of Expenditures (SOE) for each fiscal year, and have them
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) maintain statements of expenditures in accordance with sound
accounting practices and retain them for at least one year after the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last with-
drawal was made and ensure that a separate opinion on Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) be included in the annual audit; and (iii) furnish
to the Association certified copies of the audited accounte and
financial statements for each fiscal year in the form of a consoli-
dated report certified by the auditor, together with the Auditor's
Report as soon as available and an audit of the special account, but
not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year (para
4.28).
6.02     A condition of disbursement for expenditures incurred by any State or
Union Territory would be that the Borrower should have furnished IDA with a
Letter of Undertaking from that State or Union Territory.
6.03     The fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the UNICEF agreement will be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit
(para 4.06).
6.04     Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 160.9 million (US$214.5 million
equivalent) to India at standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Vital Statistics
India
Effective
Infant          Contraceptive
Crude Birth    Crude Death       Mortality        Prevalence Rate
Year          Rate (CBR)      Rate (CDR)        Rate (IMR)           (ECPR)
1982                33.8           11.9             105.0               23.7
1983                33.7           11.9             105.0               25.9
1984                33.9           12.6             104.0               29.5
1985                32.9           11.8              97.0               32.1
1986                32.6           11.1              96.0               34.9
1987                32.2           10.9              95.0               37.5
1988                31.3           10.9              94.0               39.9
1989                30.5           10.2              91.0               41.9
Source:  Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Family Welfare Program in
India Yearbook 1988-89; Sample Registration System.
Population Size and Growth
India
Census         Decadal           Average
Population        Change           Annual
Year            (Million)       Percentage       Growth Rate
1961             439.1
1971             548.2            24.8               2.5
1981             685.2            25.0               2.5
1991             844.0            23.5               2.1
2001             986.0            17.8               -
Sourcet Census of Indiag official projections



- 49 -                        ANNMuzx
Page 2
Project Beneficiaries
Last Year           Projected
of Seventh         at the End
Five-Year Plan      the Proiect
(1989/90)           (1994/95)
Women
Total number receiving immunizationt         18 million          25 million
Total number receiving ante-natal care:       8 million          20 million
Total number receiving post-natal care:       a million          20 million
Total number receiving IFA tablets:           8 million          25 million
Total number of institutional deliveries:    7 million           12 million
Total number of deliveries by trained TBAs   7 million           13 million
56 million        115 million
Children
Total number immunized:                      16 million          22 million
Total number receiving vitamin As            30 million          65 million
Total number treated for ARIt                     -              25 million
Total number treated with ORS:                9 million          18 million
Total number receiving IFAs                  50 million          60 million
105 million        190 million



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Organization of Medical and Health Services
1.      Policy-making for the family welfare program is the joint responsibility
of the Central Government and the States, while program implementation is
primarily the responsibility of the States and Union Territories. Since the
program is of national importance, it is funded entirely by the Central
Government. At the Center, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) is
responsible for overall program management. Within the Ministry, both the
Department of Family Welfare and the Department of Health Services are headed by
Secretaries of GOI.
2.      All States and Union Territories have separate Departments of Health and
Family Welfare, but with mild variations among them. The basic structure
consists of a Directorate of Health Services which functions under the overall
control of the State Secretary. A Director heads the Directorate and has a
number of Joint Directors, Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors who report
to him. However, in some States, the Directorate of Health Services is separate
from the Directorate of Medical Education. In other States, even though the two
Directorates are functionally separate, there is only one Director. In a number
of other States, there is a Director of Health and Family Welfare, a Director of
Medical Education, and a Director of Training. Some States have a Director
General for Health Services under whom various Directors function. Finally,
some States have a post of Secretary and Commissioner Family Welfare.
3.      There are 431 Districts in India, each of which has a Chief Medical
Officer (CMO) or District Health Officer (DHO) who is in charge of the health
infrastructure at the district level. In each district, there is a hospital of
200-400 beds with specialist services, catering to local needs and meeting the
referral services from the periphery. The task of the CMO and the District
Family Welfare Officer (DFWO) who works for the CMO, are basically managerial.
The CMO's tasks include the planning and implementation of IEC, training,
community mobilization and monitoring programs, plus administration, including
establishment and control of vehicles.
4.      Community Health Centers are established at a sub-district level and
cater to populations of about 100,000. They provide specialist services
including a physician, surgeon, gynecologist, dental surgeon, and, in some
cases, a pediatrician. At the Block level, there is generally a Primary Health
Center. Originally, the PHC was planned for a population of 100,000, but as
part of the Seventh Five-Year Plan expansion program, this has been    reduced
to 30,000. The PHC is the nucleus from which curative and preventive services
radiate in the rural areas, and it is usually staffed with three doctors. In
some States, the third medical officer is a practitioner of one of the Indian
Systems of Medicine (ISH) which includes the Ayurvedic, Homeopathy or Unani
systems of medicine. In other States, of the three doctors, one is always a
female, in order to overcome the reluctance of rural women to being ezamined by
male doctors. PHC's are also staffed with two male and two female Health
Assistants and Health Workers each, and a Community Health Officer.



-51-                                          ANNE 2
Page 2
Below the new PHC is the sub-center which covers a population of 5,000 and is
staffed with a male and female Health Worker.
5.           At the Village level, for every 1.000 people, there is a Health Guide
who is a volunteer from the village, and is paid an honorarium of R8.50 per
month. In addition to Health Guides, traditional birth attendants (TEA) or
Dais are paid Rs. 20 per delivery. Both the Health Guide and TBA are given
replenishable medical kits consisting of 18 types of drugs. Trained TBAs play
a very effective role in delivering MCH services as they are trusted by the
village community. The Health System infrastructure is outlined in the
following table.
Health System Infrastructure
seventh                           eaalihd
Administrative      Five-year Pla                            Be; Ite
Le-l           Target population       Facility         ec. 1                        Serice  to be Priedz                        Staffing  tcorn
Village (576.000)     For 1.000                 -               *          o Preventive and pf i  tive   pet    of health care;    Health Cuid.
Provisio of curative services for minor oil-
mte; *rfer probi    c_me to nub-center.
o Conduct eafe an  eeetlc deliveries  providl.          T.ditlaonal e;rth
other tH  care: eotivete _m   In accepting            Attendant (or  oai)
family planning.
Per 8.000          Sub-Center         110,275       o Preventive and proomtiwv  aepect of health cares       Health Worker (FPeala)
rf rrel of difficult ca. to Primry Health            Health Wowker (Male)
Oloek                 Per 30.000          Primary Health      10.S35       o Curetive, Preventive, ad premetive aegecte of          Medical Of"icar (2-3)
Center (tPC)                       health care; organltio  ote training program
and cntinving education for eb-centr MAn
village level etef  referral of cam  to OC.
o OrganlsiatIon ofreventIve and prmtieCommlity Health
O ecteof healt hs c-are.                              officer OCC)
Organzati*On end Inelemantloton of tnfor_Utlon.       Black EGtenalon educator
eduction  an  cemmenosicaln pogeram in areasS
oere  b 1 the PlC.
o Superviseon of ecetitle. of health mothers and        Health Ae.n't (Pomale)
village level  ctf.                                   (dy Helth Vieitor)
Helth Aat    (male)
o Outeach ectivitite  Including family planing          Health Workera
and HM.                                               (Hale and Pamel)
Per 100.000        Community Health    1.438        o All epecialtioe of medicine, Including surgery         medical Officer.
Centoer  C)                        gnecology  obtatericlo , pathology, radioloty.        Cmurgon. ynacolooiat.
etc.                                                  dnetal r       n, pdi-
trician) Pharacioe
o 30 bed for cass   referred from MC.                   t6ra.., Hurae-ldstrivo
District (431)                            Sub-Diatrict/          400       o Some *pecialitim.
Taluka loeeitel'
o Poet-partum centera for family plmnning  nd NMI       Medical Officar.
services. inaluditn  referral muport to pen;-         Pharmac:t, storea.
pberal centera (I e)                                 t&A     W-4  v
Dietrict Health       431        o All seical eeeeialties.
Centerjhepite lm
o Planning. Implementation. snd  ei teong of the        Chief medical Officer
p,rgram  St ste district level, plus attding          (00), Otc           lth
all referral cases from peripheral cent er.           Otficer ( ). Olatric
fe;nl Welfare Off tc*e
o 200-400 bed.                                          Medical Officere. Hbem.
Nuroe H14dvive
S cs Fam  V1yelfare Prgram  In India. Yearboo  1811-1,17. P . Naw DeOlhi. 



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
The National Faumly Welfare Proaran
Section 1: Goals and Achievements
Goals            Achievement
1990            2000         1989
Net Reproduction Rate (NRR)                      1.17Z            1.O          1.6?
Effective Couple Protection Rate (ECPR)          42.0Z             60?           42Z
Annual Growth Rate of Population                 1.66Z           1.20?          2.0Z
Total Fertility Rate                              4.3             2.3           3.9
Infant Mortality Rate                              87           below 60         91
Crude Death Rate                                 10.4             9.0          10.2
Crude Birth Rate                                 27.4            21.0          30.5
Young Child Mortality (0-4 years)              15 - 20             10      35.2 (1987)
Maternal Mortality                              2 - 3           below 2         5-7
Life Expectancy at Birth                         56.6              64            55
Babies with birth weight below 2500 grams        18.0Z             102           25?
Pregnant mothers receiving ante-natal care    60 - 75?            100?           40?
Deliveries by Trained Birth Attendants             80?            1OOZ           35?
Immunization Status (? covered)
*     TT (for pregnant women)               100?            100?           652
*     TT (for children)                     100?            100?           652
*     DPT (children below 3 years)           85Z             85t           802
*     BCG (infants)                          80Z             85?           80?
*     Polio                                  70?             852           76?
Subcenter                                        1 for every 5,000 population 1/
Primary Health Center                            1 for every 30,000 population
Community Health Center                           1 for every 100,000 population
Health Guide                                      1 for every village
Trained Dai                                       1 for every village
NA - Not available.
1/ 3,000 in tribal and remote areas.
Sources Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; Sample Registration System.



- 53
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Section 2: Schemes which Make up the National Family Welfare Program
The 26 Schemes which make up the National Family Welfare Program can be
categorized as follows:
(a)   Family Welfare Services including for Family Planning (i)
sterilizations (vasectomy, tubectomy), (ii) IUD insertions; (iii)
free distribution of oral pills and conventional contraceptives
(condoms, jelly creams, foam tablets, diaphragms) and for MCH,
(iv) immunization of pregnant women and children (tetanus, DPT,
Polio, BCG and measles), (v) prophylaxis against nutritional
anemia among women and children and against blindness due to
Vitamin A deficiency; and (vi) Oral-rehydration therapy.
(b)   Facilities to deliver these services:  construction, furnishing
and equipping (vii) under the Minimum Needs Program, Community
Health Centers (CHCs), Primary Health Centers (PHCs) including
operation theaters, and Sub-centers including quarters for Female
Health Workers: (viii) Post-Partum Centers at district and sub-
district Hospitals and selected Medical Colleges; (ix)
sterilization beds; (x) IUD Rooms at Rural Family Welfare Centers;
and (xi) Health Posts in urban slums under the Urban Revamping
Scheme;
(c)   Improving the Quality of Services delivered through the
appointment of new and upgrading of new and existing workers
through specialized training programs for (xii) Female Health
Workers; (xiii) Female Health Assistants; (xiv) Nursing Tutors and
Public Health Nurses; (xv) former Unipurpose workers to become
Multipurpose Workers (Male Health Workers and Assistants) (xvi)
Dais (traditional birth attendants) and (xvii) Village Health
Guides;
(d)   Improving the Management and Operation Systems through ensuring
the supply and distribution of (xviii) vaccines, (xix) cold-chain
equipment, (xx) vehicles; (xxi) contraceptives; and (xxii)
undertaking demographic research and evaluation; and
(e)   Increasing the Demand for these services from the public by
(xxiii) Information, Education and Communication programs (IEC);
(xxiv) increasing the involvement of Private Voluntary
Organizations (PV0s) in the program; (xxv) social marketing of
contraceptives (pills and condoms) and (xxvi) supporting family
welfare programs in the organized sector (Railways, Defense,
Labor, etc) and private sector companies.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Performance Achievements of the Maternal and Child Health Program
(Figures in Million)
Tetanuo  wuInisation       D.F.T imunlzatIon
Year       for  mxe    nt  others          for Children                   Polio                 B.C.      a
TIrgot No.    X AcvAt   Torgot  No.        X Achvt   Target  No. of X Achvt  Target  Achvt  X Acht
Imuni- of                Iuni- of                   bens- of                 (b low of
sod     target            zed    target              ficT-  target            one    target
ari-x                   Year)
1976-76     8.02    1.46   46.8        6.03    2.41   47.0       -        -       -        -       -       -
1976-77     6.02    2.14   42.0       10.00    4.02   89.6       -        -       -        -       -       -
1977-78     6.94    8.61   60.7       10.90    7.81   71.6       -        -       -        -       -       -
1978-79     5.00    8.72   74.6        8.94    6.80   76.2       -        -       -        -       -       -
1979-80     6.00    4.75   79.4       12.00    6.88   576        -        -       -        -       -       -
1980-81     6.84    6.28   77.8       18.66    7.16   62.8      8.88    1.61   42.2        -       -       -
1981-82     7.96    7.11   89.6       15.97    9.28   67.9      2.40    2.93  128.8        -       -       -
1982-88     9.00    7.64   84.9       18.97   10.34   74.0      6.24    4.65   87.0      16.00    4.12   27.6
1988-84    11.60    8.26   71.7       14.60   11.28   77.6      7.60    8.03  107.1      16.00    4.47   29.8
1984-85    18.08    9.86   71.9       14.61   12.48   86.7     12.00    9.89   82.4      14.61    5.U8  87.0
1986-86    12.88   10.86    80.6    14.04    15.18  108.1      14.04   18.19    98.9    14.04    6.62   47.8
198-87    16.20   11.78    77.2    15.80    12.99   84.9       15.80   11.14    72.8    16.80   11.81   77.2
1987-88.   16.98   14.62    86.8    17.21    16.60   95.9      17.21   18.81    80.8    17.21   16.17   94.0
Prophylaxis against
Measles Vaccination                                 D.T. Imunization          Nutritional Anasoia
Year             Performance               Tvohold                 for Children             Amono Moth-rx
Target  Achvt  X Achvt    Targt No. of  X Achvt   Target No.       X Achvt    No. of Beneficiaries
Of                bene-   of                Immun-  of        Tota l Expect- U Achvt
target            ficl-   target            izod    target    Womn  ant &   of
arsee                                              Nursing target
arise                                              Mothers
1976-76      -       -        -         -       -       -       6.7      1.28    22.0       -     8.70   185.0
1976-77      -       -                                          6.00    2.72    64.2        -     8.29    82.8
1977-78      -       -      -           -       -       -       6.96    6.64    94.0       8.88   5.60   141.0
1987-79      -       -                                          7.93    7.21    91.1      10.04   6.41   100.6
1979-80      -       -      -           -       -       -      10.00   10.84   108.7      11.44   6.26   104.8
1980-81      -       -       -         9.82    1.62   16.5     11.&7   10.28    90.1      11.09   6.24   101.0
1981-82      -       -       -        10.00    2.68   26.6      12.67   10.81    86.1     12.04   6.88   101.9
1982-88                               10.00    6.02   50.8     12.60   10.26    82.0      16.97   6.75   183.1
1988-84      -       -      -         10.00    6.28   62.8     18.00   10.68    81.7    17.88   8.52   146.1
1984-65      -       -      -         11.00    7.86   66.9      18.06   11.46    87.6     17.71   9.41   186.8
1986-86                               11.19    7.87   70.8      11.19   12.68   112.0    18.06   9.06   128.9
1980-67    6.70     8.71  67.8        12.10    7.88   66.1      12.10   10.85    89.7     14.47   6.19    77.6
1987-86   11.21    10.05  89.7        18.00    8.37   64.4      18.00   11.82    87.1     17.65   7.66    80.2



55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(Figures in Million)
Prophylaxis Against Nutritional             Prophylaxis Against Blindness
Anemia among Children                    due to Vitamin A deficiency
Target    No. of bene-    2 Achvt.         Target    No. of bene-    Z Achvt.
ficiaries        of target                 ficiaries        of target
2.00       3.52          175.8            8.7k         4.48           51.2
4.00       3.05           76.4           12.00         7.00           58.3
6.00       6.85          115.1           23.70        10.33           43.6
10.00       9.08           90.9           24.67        13.95           56.7
11.00       9.94           90.6           24.66        17.06           69.3
11.91       9.56           87.1           24.20        16.64           68.8
11.88      12.21          103.3           24.66        18.66           75.7
12.00      14.35          119.6           25.00        19.09           76.7
12.00      16.14          135.6           25.00        19.21           76.8
13.00      17.30          133.0           27.00        28.79          106.6
14.00      17.16          122.6           24.96        29.40          117.8
19.43      12.82           66.0           28.97        30.24           78.1
22.0       17.68           80.4           30.00        45.13           85.0
Figures are provisional.
Percentage of Achievement of targets were worked out by taking half of the
total doses given to the first time initiated, continued and completed
dosed beneficiaries.
Worked out after excluding the targets of those States/UTs. for which
figures have not been received.
MCH Beneficiaries (in Millions)
Year                 Women              Children                    Total
1975-76                 5.15                11.69                     16.84
1976-77                 5.43                16.79                     22.22
1977-78                11.89                21.53                     43.42
1978-79                13.76                37.04                     50.80
1979-80                16.19                44.72                     60.91
1980-81                16.37                47.01 la                  63.38
1981-82                19.15                56.47 La                  75.62
1982-83                23.61                67.72 /a                  91.33
1983-84                25.M                 80.37 La                 106.00
1984-85                27.07                98.61 /a                 125.68
1985-86                28.41               109.48 La                 137.89
1986-87                26.20               110.22 Lb                 136.42
1987-88 *              32.17               150.39 /b                 182.56
* Figures are provisional.
La Includes Polio, Typhoid and B.C.G.
L Includes Polio, Typhoid, B.D.G. and Measles.



- 56 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Health and Family Welfare Education and Training Programs
Section 1 - Organization of Health and Family Welfare
Education and Training Programs
1.    Training Policies and Programs in Family Welfare.  Training is a key
aspect of the draft Eighth Five-Year Plan and Revised Family Welfare strategy.
A major premise in these policy documents is that the effectiveness of service
delivery would be enhanced, if all categories of workers are appropriately
trained, and the systems and procedures under which they operate 8 e suitably
altered and/or reformed. The training clientele and their needs therefore
have to be identified, the specific forms of current training assessed and
revised, and the organization and management of the training system examined
to determine whether it is effective in delivering the needed education and
training. The basic form of the training system is outlined below.
Pre-Service Training
2.    Medical Education.  Under-graduate and post-graduate medical education
is provided by the 106 Medical Colleges in the country. Each College is
attached to a general hospital and/or some specialized hospitals for purposes
of training. The training program is largely along the lines of a
conventional western curriculum, with an emphasis on curative rather than
public and preventive health care. In addition to these medical colleges
which follow the allopathic system, medical education is also provided in
traditional and Indian forms such as ayurveda, homeopathy, Siddha, Unani
medicine, nature cure, yoga, and Amchi (Tibetan) systems of medicine. Courses
for medical technologists in Radiology, ECG, and Cardiology are also provided
in hospitals.
3.    Nursing Education:  The 186 Colleges of Nursing in the States, provide
courses of four years duration and award a BSc in nursing. Community Health
is well integrated in the curriculum and is a major thrust of the program.
Consequently, most BSc nursing graduates are employed as teachers in Auxiliary
Nurse Midwife (ANM)/Health Worker (Female) Training Schools. In addition to
the Colleges, there are schools attached to the teaching general hospitals
which conduct 3 to 3 1/2 year courses in general nursing and midwifery.
4.    Paramedical Education.  Female Health Assistants who are the supervisors
of female health workers, undergo training of 2 1/2 years duration at 45 Lady
Health Visitors (LHV) Training Schools. These schools also provide short
courses of six months duration for Health Workers (Female) who have had a
minimum of five years service and are to be promoted to the assistant level.
Male Health Assistants are trained at 21 Health Assistant (Male) Training
Schools and at the 47 Health and Family Welfare Training Centers (HFWTCs).
The course is only of six months duration because the clientele are all male



- 57 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 2
Health Workers who are being promoted after many years of service as uni-
purpose workers in the malaria, leprosy and tuberculosis programs. Health
Inspectors/Sanitary Inspectors receive training of 6-12 months duration in
Health/Sanitation Inspectors Training Schools which are attached to Medical
Colleges. Female Health Workers are given one and half to 2 years training in
the 436 Health Worker (F) Training Schools, formerly called ANI Training
schools which are mostly affiliated with nursing schools and general or civil
hospitals. Some of these schools are government-operated, while others are
run by voluntary organizations, depending on the hospital to which it is
attached.
In-Service Training
5.    Organization.  The National Institute of Health and Family Welfare
(NIHFW) in New Delhi is the apex institution for family welfare in-service
training. At the regional level, seven institutions have been designated as
Central Training Institutes (CTIs). At present, there are no state-level apex
training institutions. However, under the Fourth IDA-assisted population
project, West Bengal will establish a State Institute of Health and Family
Welfare; under the Sixth Population Project, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh
and Uttar Pradesh will establish SIHFWs; and under the Seventh Papulation
Projects, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir will establish
SIHFWs. At the sub-state level, each State has a varying number of Health and
Family Welfare Training Centers (HFWTCs), for a total of 47 HFWTCs throughout
the country. In addition to these training institutions, medical colleges,
hospitals, and primary health centers (PHCs) all play a role in conducting in-
service training programs.
6.    NIHFW is organized into a number of departments covering the various
aspects of the family welfare program, including reproductive biology, MCH,
IEC, and training. The NIHFW has been active in the analysis of training
needs, atid the coordination and compilation of a series of management training
modules for all levels of family welfare staff. It played a major role in
establishing a national communications task force which produced a set of
communications training modules. It has carried out a variety of research
projects, including an evaluation of the Health Guide program, and is
currently coordinating MOHFW's efforts to involve NGOs more actively in the
family welfare program. It also undertakes the training of higher level
administrative staff and trainers of training programs for some of the
northern States.
7.    There are 7 national institutions including the NIHFW, which have been
designated as Central Training Institutes (CTIs) and which fulfill various
functions. The relationships among each other and to the HFWTCs are vague.
The All Indian Institute of Health and Public Hygiene (AIIHPH) in Calcutta is
a prestigious post-graduate institution with an international reputation for
research and teaching in public health and epidemiology. It also provides
support to the health and family welfare programs in West Bengal and
northeastern India through the training of officials, trainers, and health
workers, although this function occupies only about 151 of its time. The
Regional Family Welfare Training Center (RFWTC) at Bombay is a centrally



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
funded institute responsible for training staff and trainers from the western
States. The Central Health Education Bureau (CHEB) in New Delhi is a national
institution having some overlapping functions with NIHFW. The Institute of
Rural Health and Family Welfare in Gandhigram in Tamil Nadu has achieved an
international reputation as a research and training institute specializing in
rural health services and IEC development. The International Institute for
Population Sciences (Bombay) and the Rural Health and Training Center
(Najafgarh) are the other two CTIs. These institutions vary in status: the
CHEB and the RFWTC, for example, are centrally controlled, AIIHPH is virtually
independent, while Gandhigram is a government-aided private trust. In
addition to the recognized CTIs, the Schools of Public Health in Madras and
Bombay, the Indian Institutes of Management (IIM4s) at Ahmedabad, Bangalore,
Calcutta and Lucknow, and the Administrative Staff College at Hyderabad have
all been involved in family welfare in-service management training.
8.    HFWTCs are located in each State to provide in-service training to the
medical and paramedical personnel working at various levels in the system.
These centers are fully financed by the Central government, and have a typical
staffing pattern of Principal, medical lecturer-cum-demonstrator, health
education instructor, social science instructor, public health nurse instruc-
tor, health education extension officer, statistician, and other support
staff. Vacancy rates in HFWTCs are typically high, particularly for social
science and health educators. The main programs presently run at these
centers include 30 days training to medical officers of the PHC and 75 days of
training to the Block Extension Educator (BEE). The HFWTCs also undertake
short-term courses for PHC staff as and when required.
9.    At the PHC/Block level, several types of in-service and on-the-job
training programs are undertaken. Male and female health assistants (HA) are
g-ven about 6 weeks supervisory training by the Medical Officer (MO) and the
BEE. At the end of that period, the HAs are expected to undertake a two-week
course in supervisory skills at the HFWTCs. The MO/PHC also runs an eight-
week course for male health workers and a six-week course for female health
workers. He is assisted by the BEE, health assistants, and the staff of the
HFWTC. Finally, the MO/PHC conducts a three-month program of in-service
training for Health Guides, and a one-month course for traditional birth
attendants. The training system is shown in the following table.



- 59 -                                             ANNEX 5
Page 4
Health and Family Welfare Training Programs
Type of                                                                                                         lber of
Training               Program and Clientele                                     Institution                  Institution  Course Duration
PRE-SiRVICE  Medical Education.  Training of Medical Officers    Kedical Collegs                                    101
TRAINViN     MOSS).
N4reing Education. Training of t      for teach-   Nursing Cal Ie-gs/School-                         la       4 yro/S yra.
ine (ESCjf*nd for hospitals in gener*l nuroing
Health and Family Wlifere Program Supervision.       Lady Health Visitor Schools                      46       2.6 yre.
Training of  h4                        (Lady
Health Vieitorol(Ogplo").d
Training of Health/Sanitary Inspectors.              Senitary Inspector Schools                                12 month
Health end Family Welfnre Proam Supervision.        Health Acoistant (Hole) Training Institution      21       6 months
Trainina of Health  eita nts Ol
Primary Health Care Trainin9 pf a &1th VorkHr ealth Worker (Femle) (AW4 Training Schools  43t                  18 months
(Female) (Auxillary Nuras Midwiveo).
Primary Health Care Training of Health Workers      Health and Family Welfare Training Centers        47       18 months e
_____ (H_f__C_).                                                                                       __________
Training of Nurse Tutors/Public Health Nurses.       Regional Teacher Training Institutes               6
IN-SERVICE    Managment Education through workehops and            National Institutes of Health and Family           1
TRAINIVA     seminars for Stats and Di-ttlict Levl HaIlth        Welfare (NFW)
Dffieieto; management training for _edical
oEfficears
Multi-purpos  worker eche_e  training of Hklith    CIml TIrninInQi  a   it tgn-                        7
Iorkiisra  flofailIe; apecIal  ed course  for        1. F -ily WlfFr Training and Reerch Center
other fill weifire progrers; training of l              Cb   y)
Trainers (district level t400). iEEo  etc.          2. Internationl Institute for Population
Scienc 5110 bay)
3. Natonal  n!atietute for Communicable Dises
4. Central Health Education bireau
S. All India Institute of Htygiene and Public
Helith (Calcutta)
6. Rural Health and Training Center Nt fg rh)
7. Condhigrem Institute of Rural Heth end
Family Welfare Truoi
Trainine of Coumunity H*alth tiffic .               CTI                                               8
Training oaf Helth Assistents and Health Worker-.  Health and Family Welfare Training Centers        47
Continuing Education for Primary Health Care         ANN Schools                                     40       2- weeks
Staff.                                              LMV Schools                                       14      once every
HWrTCs                                          47       5 woeks a
Rural Health Training Center                      I
College of Nursing                                I
Nadieal Colleges                                106
Trainina of tb_lt  iid                               Primry Health Center                                     8 months
Training of Traditional lBirth Attendant  (tM        Primry Welth Center                                      I month
e 1005 centrally assisted (1005 non-recurring. SO of recurring).



- 60 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 5
Section 2 - Problems and Issues in FamLly Welfare Training
10.       Several major problems affect the quality of medical and paramedical
education and training programs. They include (a) limited career development
prospects for staff working in the program, especially teachers and instruc-
tors; (b) anomalies in the organizational structure of the present system;
(c) a high level of inefficiency in the delivery of training; and (d) the
general low level of skills, knowledge and aptitudes of family welfare staff.
11.       Personnel Management and Career Development.  The delivery of family
planning and MCH services is supposed to be integrated at all levels and is
carried out primarily by health workers. Female Health Workers are the
linchpin of the program. While job responsibilities for all levels and types
of staff have been carefully specified, these have not been well disseminated
to staff, nor linked to pre-and in-service training activities, and in most
cases, field workers have a far greater task load than they can be reasonably
expected to handle. In addition, since male Health Workers are paid from a
variety of budget heads/programs, duplication of effort constrains effective
performance. Moreover, personnel practices are weak. The recruitment, selec-
tion, posting, transfer and promotion for all levels of staff are subject
to other than administrative and managerial influences with consequent
negative effects on staff morale. Efforts to improve personnel management
through more systematic performance appraisal methods, enhanced career
development opportunities, and clearer job definition and selection criteria
must receive priority attention if the quality of service is to be improved.
In the area of training, these problems are especially acute among the staff
of the Health and Family Welfare Training Centers (HFWTCs) and other training
institutes. The GOT has recognized this problem as it affects staff who
operate central as oppused to state-level institutions. In 1982, the GOI
restructured the Central Health Service to consist of 4 streams; i.e. public
health, teaching, non-teaching and general duty officers. Along with this
reform, a cadre review service was instituted which has considerably improved
the promotional prospects of members of the service. These reforms have not,
however, penetrated to the health services in the States. In the States,
medical and other officials who are deputed to training responsibilities view
this as a negative step in their careers. Although the programs at the HFWTCs
and other institutes are fully financed by the GOI, training staff belong to
the State services. Reform of the Health Services in the States is an
essential prerequisite to effectively upgrading the quality of health and
family welfare training programs.
12.       Organizational Structure of Family Welfare Training.  The present
system of designated Central Training Institutes (CTIs), and a large number of
State-level institutions involved in both pre- and in-service training
requires rationalization. Most CTIs with the exception of the National
Institute of Health and Family Welfare (NIHFW), operate courses for the Family
Welfare program but these are generally addendums to their main operations,
with the consequent lack of attention, resources and commitment. These



- 61 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 6
institutions have different foci and objectives, and in some cases, family
welfare is only a small part of their activity. In the States, the HFWTCs are
the key institutions and should be linked directly to thp NIHFW. Several
should be selected and upgraded to become either (a) regional centers to
replace the CTIs and provide services to a number of States; or (b) State-
level apex institutions which provide specialized services to the other HFWTCs
and schools in the particular state.
13.       The regional or State apex institution option would provide for the
development of selected HFWTCs to concentrate on conducting train.ng needs
assessments of all categories of workers, development of spesialiL.'± course
curricula and materials, conducting training of trainers programs, and provid-
ing technical assistance outreach activities to the on-the-job training
programs operated at the Post-Partum Centers, Primary Health Centers (PHCs)
and Community Health Centers (CHCs).
14.       Another organizational change that may be required is to make the
HFWTCs specialize. At present, all HFWTCs conduct essentially the same
mixture of pre-service and in-service courses. Appropriately trained staff are
not available locally to run simultaneous programs at numerous institutions.
It may be prudent therefore to have some HFWTCs specialize in clinical skill
and management programs for medical officers; others can cater to needs of
supervisors such as Health Assistants, Community Health Officers, and others
still to the Health Worker, Health Guides (HG) and Dai clientele. In many
ways this pattern is already manifest at all institutions. Because of social
and other factors, medical officers are not trained at the same time in the
same institution with Health Workers. The integration of the skills of
Medical Officers, Health Supervisors and Workers is supposed to take place on
the job, rather than at the training institutions. This highlights the need
to make recurrent on-the-job training an integral and major part of the
overall training infrastructure. The on-the-job training programs are for the
most part not well integrated in the system. The training activities at the
PHC are disorganized or largely never implemented, and the variations in
themes, quality, and intensity make what is offered irrelevant to the
integration process that is essential to the Family Welfare program. The GOI
and the States must therefore (a) accept the necessity for recurrent training;
(b) understand that on-the-job rather than one-shot institution based in-
service training must be the core of the training system; and (c) that
programs and staff must be developed and resources dedicated to having this
system implemented.
15.       Quality and Efficiency.  Several major problems affect the internal
and external efficiency of training institutions, and these ultimately affect
the quality of the training programs which they deliver. These problems
include poor linkages between training curricula and job requirements, failure
to attract suitable talent to training institutions, limited faculty develop-
ment efforts, over reliance on didactic/lecture training methods, and limited
use of demonstrations and field-based training. Clinical training is
especially weak. Many staff are unfamiliar with simple sterilization proce-
dures, the advantages/disadvantages of temporary methods and key MCH interven-
tions such as how to manage weighing programs. Training equipment and



- 62 -                          NNEX5
Page 7
materials are also in short supply. Training facilities are provided, but
have deteriorated due to the lack of maintenance in many cases. At. many
levels, facilities are under-utilized because the clientele cannot be released
for training when actively involved in achieving annual family planning
targets. This situation is pronounced in the last half of the fiscal year. In
some States, at some levels of training, there is excess capacity, while in
other areas the reverse is true, with overcrowding, and a backlog of
applicants seeking entrance for pre-service training.
16.       Skills, knowledge and aptitudes of family welfare staff.  Center,
State and district-level administrators are in charge of implementing all
health and medical policies and programs. There is a general consensus,
however, that few officers, including physicians, have a sufficient depth of
program knowledge to plan, manage, supervise, and evaluate all aspects of an
integrated Family Welfare program, particularly to support multi-tiered
management and technical training programs for medical and health services
personnel. In addition, the frequent transfer of administrative and medical
officers requires that a system for recurrent training in management be
instituted. Short training courses of 2-6 days for these officers have been
developed and carried out by the II1's, HFWTC's, NIHFW, and the CTIs. While
these institutions are all appropriate to carry out and evaluate this train-
ir.g, these programs have not been systematic, and many of the recently
appointed administrators remain untrained. In addition, there are questions
whether the short courses relate precisely to the responsibilities and
performance of the officers.
17.       The quality of India's medical and paramedical training programs is
a perennial problem. Budgetary allocations for training reflect the
priorities of investment in the program's human capital base. In spite of the
labor and skill intensive nature of family welfare work, the majority of
resources for training are dedicated to medical education as oppoLad to
paramedical education and training.
18.       Medical Officers (MOs) are responsible for the management and
delivery of all medical and health services in the system, and are trained at
the network of public and private medical schools. About 802 of all MOs are
male and have completed the MBBS degree, while 20? have post-graduate degrees
and diplomas. The medical education program emphasizes curative rather than
preventive health care, with little attention to the management aspects of the
public health system. Medical education also does not adequately address
public health administration and the management skills required for public
sector physicians.  Althou   several schools have post-graduate programs in
public health, the quality is questionable. This situation requires action at
several levels: (a) medical education curricula and the current patterns of
public health training for physicians need revision; (b) improving health
administration through the development of alternative career development
structures for clinical and ad&Jnistration specialists; (c) exposing practic-
ing physicians through upgrading training to more information about temporary
methods; and (d) in'reasing private sector involvement in the family welfare
training program, especially the skill upgrading of medical practitioners.



- 63 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 8
19.       In addition to the above deficits, the new emphasis in the GOI's
program on temporary measures of contraception and maternal and child health
is severely hampered by the lack of female MO's. Cutural inhibitions in many
geographic areas of the country against the physical examination of females by
male MOs precludes first hand supervision of female health workers, and the
management of emergency obstetric/gynecology (OBIGYN) cases and referral
services. No training program or entity currently exists which provides the
mix of management, medical knowledge, plus the skills and attitudes required
for the in-service training of medical officers. A training program could be
designed which utilizes the IIM's and other management institutions for
managerial diagnostic studies and the development of case study modules,
upgraded HFWTC's for carrying out non-clinical training, and district area
maternity hospitals with their Post-Partum centers, and private
medical hospitals and schools for continuing clinical medical education.
Another option might be to provide upgraded HFWTC's with clinical case
studies, along with visiting specialists in OB/C-YN and communicable diseases.
20.       Block Extension Educators (BEE) are responsible for implementing
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) programs throughout the
geographic area served by the PHC. They are supposed to be provided short
orientation training at HFWTCs, but this pre-service training of 6 months
duration generally has not occurred. Many of the existing BEE's were formerly
experienced uni-purpose workers or male health workers. More recently, social
science graduates have been recruited to undertake this assignment. Their
managerial deficits cover the full range of their responsibilities. A techni-
cal skills needs assessment should also be carried out to determine the extent
of their knowledge in the latest techniques in communications. Because of the
lack of appreciation of IEC on the part of MOs, ambiguities of BEE respon-
sibilities, and lack of training, some serve as administrative assistants to
the medical officer, resulting in block-level IEC activities not being under-
taken.
21.       Community Health Officers (CHO) are responsible for the supervision,
support, and guidance of all health personnel and community level workers such
as Health Guides and Dais. They assist the MO in organizing and implementing
all preventive and promotive aspects for all health programs, as well as train
the health workers. Because most CHO's were trained previously as unipurpose
workers, and their continued training and supervision by Medical Officers
largely does not occur, there are large managerial and technical skill gaps
among these workers.
22.       Female Health Assistant/Lady Health Visitor (Supervisors).  Female
Health Assistants (HA[F]) are responsible for the planning, supervision,
clinic scheduling, and community organization in sub-centers and villages.
In addition, many conduct the MCH and PP clinics in the sub-centers. Most of
the HAMF) were trained as Lady Health Visitors (LHV), although some have been
promoted from the ranks of Health Workers (F) and hence have not had the
extensive pre-service education of the LHV. Because of the diverse
backgrounds of HA(F) only about one half have been trained in IUD insertion.
Surveys indicate a wide range of managerial performance gaps among them.
Without systematic in-service training, their knowledge of health issues,



- 64-                        ANNEX5
Page 9
practice and skills will erode rapidly. This is particularly important in the
areas of counselling in temporary method choice, IUD insertion, sterilization
follow-up, and supervision of Female Health Workers HW(F) and Dais.
23.       Health Worker (Female) also known as Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (AiIM)
are responsible for implementing the MCH and PP programs. Most have completed
the 18 month pre-service training course as ANM's, but this training is
deficient because it is hospital centered. The supervision and on-the-job in-
service training which is intended to supplement this training has not been
satisfactorily implemented. Performance evaluations indicate the following
skill and knowledge gaps of HW(F): (a) antenatal care, labor and delivery: it
is estimated that only 402 of HW(F) could carry out a proper antenatal
examination, and even fewer could describe how to deal with the common
complications of pregnancies and delivery; (b) child health and nutrition:
less than 1OX of health workers have an adequate knowledge of vaccination
dosages and their administration, as well as sterile practices. About the
same percentage know what services are to be provided in child clinics, and
how to weigh and measure child growth; and (c) family planning less than 6Z of
HW(F) can insert IUD's or recognize the necessary contra-indications as a pre-
requisite to prescribing oral contraceptives. In summary, most HW(F)s cannot
satisfactorily perform their responsibilities. This is directly linked to
deficient pre-service training, weak on-the-job training, and ineffective
refresher or upgrading training. HFWTC programs and PHC training which are
supposed to meet this need require improvements if MCHI/PP service delivery is
to increase and improve.
24.       Health Worker (Male) are also responsible for sub-center activities
except MCH. Most have had some form of pre-service training when they func-
tioned as unipurpose workers in the leprosy, malaria and tuberculosis
prevention programs. A little more than half have received additional
training under the Multipurpose Scheme but only about 201 understand the
functions and methodology of work called for at the PHC including immuniza-
tion. Specific administrative skills gaps include organization of regular and
effective staff meetings, managing the drug supply and other logistics, record
keeping, community participation, referral services, and monitoring and
helping Health Guides and Dais.
25.       Health Guides (HG) also known as Village Health Guides (VHG) and
Community Health Guides are expected to cover 1,000 people. Their responsi-
bilities include outreach and health education in malaria, smallpox, communi-
cable diseases, MCH, FP, first aid and immunization. HG skill gaps include
general knowledge of health, family planning, immunization, drug administra-
tion, malaria, infectious diseases, and ayurvedic medicines. Few of the HGs
have received refresher training beyond the three-month induction program.
Identified training needs include diagnosis of coumu'nity health needs,
screening of cases, work planning, management of medicines, health education,
coordination of other workers, community leadership, and referral systems.
26.       Traditional Birth Attendants (TBA) are usually women over 40 years
old, illiterate, and are either married or widowed. The 30 days training they
receive is usually inadequate. Only 502 of them apply the principles learned,



- 65 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 10
particularly hygienic practices, when on the job. The continuing training
needs of the TBAs include the planning and scheduling of house visits,
identification of high risk mothers and children, creation of/or understanding
of referral systems, the proper management of antenatal and post natal care
and deliveries, health education, leadership and interaction with comounity
organizations, and procedures for receiving their honoraria. Technical skills
gaps analysis shows that: (a) only about 15? of the TBAs use sterile instru-
ments for deliveries; (b) only about 202 know how to tie the cord correctly;
(c) only about 50? attend to the new born appropriately, except for the
availability and use of clean cotton swabs; (d) about one third attend to all
the immediate care needs of the mother, although about 5OZ of them only do one
or two of the necessary treatments, i.e., check for excessive bleeding, verify
the complete delivery of the placenta, washing mother and giving a clean
dressing, and giving mother fluids to drink; and (e) less than 25? provide
appropriate advice on breastfeeding, weaning, immunization and family plan-
ning. The TBA is the bottom of the service delivery system, and at the same
time, plays a critical role in the Family Welfare chain of referral. The
training, skills, and knowledge gaps highlight the need for increased
training.



- 66 -
AMX 5
Page 11
Section 3 - Status of Family Welfare Training
(As of December 1990) 1/
Category                                      National
Medical Officer (PHC)                                21,414
Block Extension Edc.(BEE)                            5,717
Health Assistant (Male)                             23,070
Health Assistant (Female)                           18,006
Health Worker (Male)                                 78,939
Health Worker (Female)                             122,418
DAIS 3/                                             592,923
Village Health Guides                              337,014
HW(F)(ANM) Training Schools                             473
Annual Admission Capacity                           21,649
LHV Schools                                              46
Annual Admission Capacity                             3,206
HW(M) Training Schools                                   47
Annual Admission Capacity                                 -
HA(M) sanitary
inspector School                                     22
Annual Admission Capacity                             1,940
Medical Schools                                         125
Schools of Nursing                                      406
Functioning Sub-Centers                            130,533
Functioning Primary Health
Centers (PHC)                                      20,540
Functioning Community
Health Centers (CHCs)                               1,862
1/  Source: Rural Health Statistics for Quarter ending December 1990.
Rural Health Division, Directorate General of Health Services,
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
2/ includes the third Medical Officer who is drawn from the ISM practice,
Ayurvedic, Homeopathic, Unani.
3/ includes total number of trained and untrained.



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Page 12
Section 4: ProRosed Training Plan - 1991-95
Average District: Medical, Health, and Para-Professional Staff to be trained
CHCs          (10)
(a) Medical Officers  (3@)                      3n
(b) Nurses  (7Q)                                70
(c) Laborator Technicians (1@)                  10
(d) X-Ray Technicians  (1l)                     10
(e)     CHC Sub-total                          120
PHC       (50)
(a)  Medical Officers                           50
(b)  2nd M.O. or CHO                            50
*c)  Health Education Officers (BEE)            50
(d)  LHV                                        50
(e)  H.S. (m)                                   50
(f)  MPW (f)                                   400
(g)  HW(m)                                     300
(h)  Pharmacists                                50
Ci)  Laborator, Technicians                     50
Cj)  PHC level sub-total                     1,050
ICDS Blocks (40Z coverage/800,000)  (8)
(a)  Child Development Project Officers          8
(b)  Supervisors                                43
(c)  Anganwas, Workers                         834
(d)     ICDS Blocks sub-total                  885
Sub-Center   (400)
(a)  Village Health Guides                   1,200
(b)  TBA                                     1,200
(c)  Sub-Center sub-total                    2,400
Total to be trained per average District   4,455



- 68 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 13
A. UV A   UI_ *P PLUS* PROAUe
STAFF               NUMBERS
TO BE TRAINED       TO BE TRAINED                       TOPICS                     LOCATION
¢00  Senlor                 10           Orientation on Integration of UIP         Apex Inot
Health                                   with ARK, diorrhoeaI diseas  (D.D.)
Administrotore                           *nd Safe Motherhood; MIS Perfor-
(MOHFW)                                  manee Indicators
National Core               s0
Training Tem
State Senior               124           Integration of UIP and UIP Plus;          Appex Inst
Heaith Officers                          Protocole for AMI, diarrhoal
disaos    and micro-nutrionts; MIS
and monitoring Indicators
District Coro              2600          Training of trainers for UIP and          Consortium of
Training Te"a                            UIP Plus Interventions, including         Apex
Identify and tret or retfr for           Institutions
diarrhosel diseass and ARI;
design of appropriate instructional
materials; managmennt of UIP Plus
programs, mintain UIP
O0C Modical              18,980          Diarrhoeal dinnse   and ARI case          medical
Officors (Incis                          managemnt, training of trainer            Colleges/Model
D.P. Cost4.rs)                            (TOT) package                            CHC
CHC RNs and              41,940          D.D. and ARI case managem nt              CHC
other staff
PHC Medicol              28,800          0.D. and ARI case management and          CHC/Medical
Officer*                                 rfoerral protocols; TOT package;          Collegs
planning, managing and monitoring
UIP and UIP Plus Progra
BEE/HE                   28,800          Planning end Manag emnt of UIP and        Specitliked
UIP Plus; TOT for HA (i); critical       Inst
topic instructional mterials
HA(M)                    28,300          Schedule*s for UIP Managment.
Supervision of HA(M) IEC effort;
TOT for HA(M)
LHV, NS(F)               21,888          TOT/Supervision of UIP, D.d. and          HFWTC/CHC
ARI Programs, maintenance of UIP
Program
MPW (f)                 188,400          Identification, treatment, and            PHCs
(includes                                referral of D.D, ARI, management of
nurse/mld-wivye                          Micro-Nutelont Programs,
intogratton with FP,. record
keeping end UIP
tPW (i)                189,800           UIP Plus recordkeoping, safe water,
cold chain maintennce
PHC Pherm. A            40,600           UIP Plus drugs and laboratory
Lab.                                     techniques
ICDS Blocks            112,410           UIP Plus Program and practicos, VFA
and IFA



- 69 -AUNNEX S
Page 14
STAFF                NUMBERS
TO BE TRAINED        TO BE TRAINED                        TOPCS                      LOATON
Comunity             1,1189,400            Critical topics; Identification and
groups, village                            referral for D.D. and RI
(Includes
village health
guides) and
DA o'
Sub-total A             2.065.414
B. SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROGRAM
001 Senior                 10              Satf Motherhood strategic planning        Apex Inst
Health                                     and Implementation (project launch
Administrator*                            workshop)
National Core             100              TOT for S.M.  nel. Identification         Consortium
Training Tem                               and referral for bleding, sepsls,
toxemia, abortion, and obstructed
labor
State Senior              124              Planning, management and                  Apex Inst
Health                                     evalustion of Safe Motherhood
Officials                                 Program
State Cor                5000              TOT for Safe Motherhood including         National Core
Training                                   identification and reforral for           Training Team
Resource Team                              bleding, sepsis, toxomis,
abortion, and obstructed labor;
Planning, manageomnt and
iplementation of J.M. nel. MIS
and performance indicator.
CHC Medical              6,400            Essential obstetric care, S.M.             Medical
Officrer                                  management, ananthaia, blood               Colloges
bannk/laboratory proeodures, TOT          Hospitals
package for PHC M.O.s
CHC Staff              19,850             Essential obsteric care, post-             Hospitals
(pherm. lab.                              partum counsolling, S.M. manag ement
nuruse)                                    blood bank/laborator practices
PHC M.O.s              10,760              Supporting and monitoring dred sub-       Selected CHICc
center S.M. progrmas, stablizing of
cause pending roeorral transports,
particularly In sepsias nd toxmia.
BEEE  (HEO)            10,760              Scheduling/monitoring of PHC Safo         SIHFW
Motherhood Training Programs
LHV,HA                  10,760             Preventivo S.M. program and caso          RTC/CHC
mnage mnt, TOT package for ANUs
Including patient counseolling and
IEC.
WPW (t)                86,000              Identification of high risk caso          PHCo
Includes ANMe                             and coaplications, identification
and referral; mnagoment of village
reourcs (TIA, WIG, AWW, family)
and IEC; entnata l, post natal
ce".



- 70 -                     AJNNEX 5
Page 15
STAFF             NUNDERS
TO BE TRAINED     TO BE TRAINED                   TWICS                   LOCATION
TBA/DAIs           268,000           ldentificatlon and referral of       PHCo/SCs
(Includes                           problem pregnancies; antiseptic
trained and                          practices In child birth
untrained)
Angenwedi          179,310           Identification and referral for      SC
workers                              problem pregnancies critical topics
for IEC.
Village            268,000           Identification and referral; IEC     Village centers
Croups/he Ith
guides
Sub-total B         842.044
Total to be trained UIP, UIP Plus, and Safe Motherhood
A. UIP and UIP Plus          .................    2,055,414
B. Safe Motherhood          ............. ....            842,044
2,897,458
* Notet The recurrent in-service training for UIP and UIP Plus
will be combined in the UIP Plus districts.
Numbers to be trained ace approximate and include
induction and recurrent in-service training, as well
as training for new entrants appointed because of
staff attrition.



- 71 -
ANNEX 5
Page 16
Section 4 - Essential Elements of the Family Welfare Training Program
Prepared by the Ministry of health and Family Welfare,
Government of India
1.          Strengthening State-level Management and Administration of
Training through the creation of Human Resources Development Cells in the
States. These Cells will develop training plans, personnel information
systems, MIS, and the monitoring and evaltation of training. More
specifically, the Cell will undertake the following activities:
(a)   defining the organizations' training needs both for the present
and future;
(b)   maintaining an up-to-date inventory of personnel assets and
management talents;
(c)   provide a climate for individual growth, improve effectiveness and
preparing staff for higher responsibilities;
Cd)   establishing training programs which are designed to meet specific
and identified needs;
(e)   creating a system of employee performance appraisal;
(f)   filling key positions with staff who are qualified and competent
to achieve organizational goals;
(g)   ensuring that training schools, in meeting the challenge Health
for All by 2000 (HFA) or Net Reproduction Rate (NRR) of unity
through the primary health care approach, follow a more productive
strategy which focuses not only on the new tasks to be performed,
but also on the people who are expecteu to change their behavior.
it is essential that changes in personnel values occur in line
with the desired changes in organizational values in order to
facilitate and reinforce the realignment of personnel and
organizational goals;
(h)   designing a training strategy which would be inter-active with the
work setting and facilitate organizational change; and
(i)   preparing management on how to: (i) induce line managers to
release their staff for training; (ii) inculcate an organizational
value that reinforces training as a legitimate policy and strategy
for improving individual and organizational efficiency and
effectiveness; (iii) induce supervisors to recognize continuing
education as an aspect of supervision; (iv) upgrade, re-focus and
improve the skills and knowledge of trainers to meet the
challenge; (v) enable trainers to be more effective and assertive
about their relevance to the need of functionaries, and their role
as facilitators of effective change and implementation; and



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Page 17
(vi) by utilizing training techniques that meet the identified
skill gaps.
2.          Rationalizing the Training Infrastructure to systematize pre-
service and in-service programs. New structures will include SIHFWs, Regional
Training Centers, Dietrict Training Centers and District Training Teams. In
basic education, the Manpower Development Cell will monitor the quality of
training, the type of interactions, defining the needs of the work setting and
required facilitier so that field/institutional placement remains a positive
learning experience. Further, the selection and recruitment policy for the
candidates to be admitted to the basic education schools will be properly
defined. Simultaneous efforts will be made to create a cadre of effective
trainers.
3.          In-service/Continuing Education.  Health personnel will under%o
professional and management training at least once in six to seven years,
depending on the capacity of training institutions in the State.
4.          Promotion policy will be in.egral to the training policy.
Promotion will be linked to the successful completion of the training program.
5.          States will consider creation of training cadres, and/or package
of financial or other incentives to recruit and retain in service good
personnel.
6.          There would be a continuous evaluation system to evaluate training
efforts from a svstem's perspective.
7.          There would be periodical assessment of training needs to ensure
the relevance of trainin- to the organization. This may involve
review/revision of 4ob descriptions, role specification, etc.
8.          Revision of pre-service curriculum (basic training curriculum for
health worker (female)] with emphasis on increasing practical HCH content and
field practice.
9.          The Indigenous System of Medicine will be viewed as integral to
the healt:L care service delivery system, and their training and involvement
will be ensured in preventive and promotive aspects of F.W. programs.
10.         Review and revision of the work and supervision schedules of
Health Assistants and Health workers will be undertaken systematically. This
will include revised measures of workers' productivity.



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Concurrent Evaluation of the Family Velfarc Program
1.        The Concurrent Evaluation Program, which started in August 1989,
continues the tradition of program evaluation and monitoring by MOHFW that has
included the establishment of eighteen Population Centers nationwide, and on-
going field evaluations and monitoring by eight Mobile Teams. This latest
effort is by far the most ambitious and comprehensive and will be an integral
and on-going part of MOHFW program evaluation. The Concurrent Evaluation
consists of four data collection surveys covering: (a) Family Planning
Acceptors; (b) MCH beneficiaries; (c) Households; and (d) District profiles,
including Primary Health Centers and Sub-centers.
2.        A total of 3,800 data items will be collected per month.  The topics
of the survey are described briefly below:
(a) Schedule l.Family Planning Program
(i) The P.H.C, its staff and facilities;
(ii) Eligible Couple Registers and Acceptor profiles;
(iii) community involvement and Information, Education,
and Communication (IEC) program;
(iv) immunization coverage; and
(v) staff training
(b) Schedule 2. Sub-Centers
Ci)  the Sub-center, staff and facilities;
(ii)  supervision and Village Health Committees;
(iii)  inter-sectoral collaboration (teachers, anganwadi
workers, revenue officers, etc.);
(iv)  field visits and availability of supplies; and
(v)  staff training (frequency and kind)
(c) Schedule 3.1 Sterilization Acceptors
(i) demographic profile of acceptors and family;
(ii) reasons for accepting;
(iii) where procedure done, and follow up; and
(iv) compensation, if any
(d) Schedule 3.2 ITJD Acceptors
(i)  demographic profile of acceptors end their family;
(ii)  reasons for accepting;
(iii)  where procedure done, and follow up; and
(iv)  includes items on immunization and medicine provided for
pregnant women



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(e) Schedule 3.3 Nirodh and Oral Plll Acceptors
(i) medical checkup, and follow up;
(ii) complications, if any; and
(iii) source of motivation
(f) Schedule 3.4 MCH Beneficiaries (EPI, MCH)
(i)  Services received, where and by whom (e.g. visited by an ANM?);
(ii) Prenatal, delivery, immunization, family planning
and follow#-up services received, where and by whom
(g)  Schedule 4. Household Survey (clients)
(i)  demographic profile;
(ii)  socio-economic profile;
(iii)  family, F.P. method used, if any; why or why not;
(iv) where medical health services sought; and
(v)  source of health information and treatment
(h) Schedule V.S., Village Survey
Ci)  demographic profile;
(ii)  socio-economic profile;
(iii)  availability of health and family welfare facilities
and staff;
(iv)  number of F.P. acceptors, by type; and
(v)  analysis of eligible couples
'i) Schedule D.P., District Profile
Ci)  demographic profile, including religion;
(ii)  H. and FW staff sanctioned and posted;
(iii)  targets and achievements;
(iv)  MCH services provided;
(v)  Family Planning supplies on hand;
(vi)  logistics difficulties, deaths due to sterilization
and sterilization failures; and
(vii)  staff trained, action planned and performance
indicatcors, if any.
3.        The Concurrent Evaluation surveys will be conducted in the 17 major
States and will cover 90 percent of India's population. Nineteen Districts
will be selectad from these States each month for surveys, thus 228 discrete
districts per year will be surveyed. All of India will be covered, therefore,
every two years (there are currently 438 Districts in India).
4.        The Concurrent Evaluation was launched in order to provide
systematic, reliable, valid, and comparable data about the status and quality
of the Health and Family Welfare program. In addition, it will provide



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
national data which is comparable by item, treatment and analysis. In time,
it should replace the various scattered, segmented, incomplete, and non-
comparable data sets provided by individual project *baseline surveys.
5.        Twelve private and public research organizations have been
contracted by MOHFW to carry out the monthly surveys in the 17 States. The
schedules contain 200 data items that are coded for data input and treatment.
The 200 items from each of 19 districts per month will provide 3800 as a
points each month. The 12 Survey Agencies will complete their survey
instruments containing raw iata and then send them to two additional agencies
which are contracted to scrutinize the monthly schedules for completeness and
accuracy. These 'scrutiny' firms will then submit the raw data to Data Entry
Firms/Agencies. Thes machine readable data (in the form of discs), will then
go to the National Informatics Center (NIC), where it will be treated and
reported upon. NIC is part of the Planning Commission and is also carrying
out the National Computer mapping effort. This Report will contain 150 tables
derived from data treatment and analysis. NIC started providing Quarterly
Reports beginning the first quarter of 1990.



-76-                                    ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
National Health Policy and Safe Motherhood Stratezy
National Health Policy: Intermediate and Long Terms Goals
National Goals                                       191 - 1996              1996 - 2000
REDUCTION IN MORTALITY
Reduction of Infant Mortality Rate from                    76                      s0
94/1,000 live births in 1988 to below:
Reduction of under five  ortality from                    126                      70
160 per 1,000 live births In 1990 to
below:
Reduction of maternal mortality from 400                  S00                     200
per 100,000 live births in 1990 to below:
CONTROL OF CHILDHOOD DISEASES
Eradication of Polio                                  40X Districts           All Distric',4
605 Urban Areas        All Urban Areas
Elimination of Neo-natal Tetanus by 1996                  100X
Reduction from oxisting levels In Measles:
Deaths                                   by 956
css.L                                    by 001
Reductlon in Diarrhoeol:
Doathe                                    by SOX                   70X
Cases                                     by 10X                   2EX
Reduction In Deaths due to Acute
Respiratory Infections                                   by 20X                 by 40X
Virtual elimination of Blindness and othor                    1X                    0
consqauences of V  tamin A DefIcIency (21)
IMPROVED COVERAGE WITH SELECTED SERVICES
Access by all couples to  nformation end                    701                   1001
services for child spacing from 356 In 1990
Access to services and informatio- for pregnant             601                   100%
women for Control A management of Anaoeia from
existing lovol of SOX In 1990
X prognant mothers receiving ante-natal care                 76X                  100X
from 80X in 1990
X of deliveries by trained birth attendants                 80X                   100X
from 165 in 1990
X coverage by Vitamin A prophylaxis In                      ON                    100%
children - 6 months to 8 years from 20X In 1990



- 77 -                        AN=-7
Page 2
Iu niaatlon Status
- TT for pregnant womn from 8X In 1990          100l             l005
-6 down of TT to woman of reproductive          s0o              0OOX
age group from nil to
- Tt for school going children                  1OOX              1O00
10 .ars ftrom 80X In 1990
16 years from 205 In 1990                     1OOX              0OOX
- OPT (infants) from B0X                        1OOS              1004
OPT Booster from 60X                          BOX               1OOX
OPV (infant) from 80OX                        05                10OX
- 9CC (itfants) frcm GM                         1005              1005
- DT (new entrants of school 6-6 years)         805              0OOX
from 505 In 1990
- Moesles vaccine from 80X In 1990              100X              lOOX
SAFE MOTHERHOOD STRATEGY
The strategy would include the following
(a) information on the root causes of maternal death would be dissemi-
nated widely to policy makers, as well as among families in villages
and slums. Because social attitudes, especially in men is detrimen-
tal to safe motherhood, this would receive special attention.
Program activities would be intensified with special emphasis on
raising the status of women, literacy and education for women,
improving nutrition, and opening up of income generating opportu-
nities, etc. Intersectoral linkages would also be promoted and
synchronized multimedia campaigns to mobilize public opinion in
support of the minimum age of marriage as well as other issues
related to safe motherhood, would be undertaken;
(b) the infrastructure of 20,000 Primary Health Centers and 130,000
subcenters which are now in place would be energized La function at
optimum levels in order to deliver an essential package of services
designed to reduce maternal deaths;
(c) the level of support presently being given to the TBA and ANM would
be augmented to address the priorities of safe motherhood, with
emphasis on identifying and dealing with mothers at risk;
(d) first level referral services will be strengthened. 2,100 CHCs will
be progressively developed to serve as the first level of referral
to deal with mothers requiring emergency obstetric services. Criti-
cal care units will also be established in various urban areas;
(e) institutional deliveries would be actively supported and encouraged
and the quality of services improved,
(f) these essential services for safe motherhood would be provided
universally in a phased manner within the decade. Training, commu-
nication, management information, logistics and supply will be
supported;



- 78 -                           ANNEX 7
Page 3
(g) existing programs and services will be fully utilized for providing
essential services of safe motherhood. For example, ICDS, adult
literacy program, water supply, etc., will be utilized. Community
contacts through existing health programs such as UIP and Family
Planning, will be used for activities for safe motherhood;
(h) given the regional variations in the country, area specific ap-
proaches and support would be developed to achieve the stated goals
in each region. This would be implemented with emphasis on decen-
tralized planning and implementation. Specifically, the panchayats
(local self Government) would be involved;
(i) NGOs will be collaborative partners and aggressively involved in the
entire process of planning, implementation, monitoring and evalua-
tion;
(j) services would be made available to all pre. :ant women, and all
efforts made to reach every pregnant women ijr the first time, so as
to educate her for continued safe motherhood and dissemination of
information in the neighborhood;
(k) social and legal measures would be emphasized and enhanceC for
delaying the age of marriage. Medical and social initiatives would
be taken to ensure that Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP)
services are within close reach of all women who need these servic-
es.



- 79 -ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Phasing of Districts Selected for UIP Plus and Safe Motherhood Implementation
Principles
(a)   UIP Plus will be operationalized in all 466 districts over 5 years.
(b)   Safe Motherhood will be taken up in 215 districts over 5 years according
to the following norms:
IMR (1989) above 90            Assam, Bihar, Orissa, UttarPradesh
(100? Districts)               and Rajasthan
IMR between 60-90              Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana,
(202-25? Districts)            Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka,
Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu
and West Bengal
IMR Less than 60               Kerala
(1 District per State)
All Small States               Arunchal Pradesh, A&N Islands,
(1 District per State)         Chandigarh, D&N Havelf, Daman & Diu,
Delhi, Goa, Jammu & Kashmir,
Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya,.
Mizoram, Nagaland, Pondicherry,
Sikkim and Tripura



- 80 -                                              ANNEX 8
Page 2
Phasing for OUIP Plus
Sote t1991-1992                                 1992-1995            1008-1904             194:109S              1095-1095
1. Andhru Pradesh        1. Nlu.imbad        1. Mtdak              1. Guntur             1. Kurnool            1. V; hakhapatnaw
2   AdlWabad 2. Vrangal                  2. Pruk-eu             2. Anantupur         2. VItiunagerum
38  Karlmnagar      8.  Ksne             8. Nalloro             8   Cuddapah         S. Srikakulam
4. Nulgands          4   Kr;i an           4   Chittoor          4. East Godavari
S. Myderabud *        . Vnet Godavui                             -  Now Diutricta
tK  gaurarddy
7. HNa  rb ngear
2.   ama                 4. Kurur            8   Gonipara          6. Dhubl              B. Cachur       S      . Golaghat
S. Naeaon           9  Darrang           7. Keakr:Car           6   N.C.HiI11        8. Dibrug rh
10 Soetur            6   Bar,              7. Kriugunj           7   SibJagar
11. Sakhlhpur        9.  Na 'barl                               8   Jorhat
10. K. Anglog                              -   Nw Districts
3.  Bihar                S. Patna             12. RAbts                                  S.. lla fIpur  8.  lzftarpur  9   Rnnchi
7   Aurangabad      13. Nolund*          12 Khuera              9. Sitm-nrhb         1 OuMls
:   'Vs             14 Nn-d              13: Nuncr              10. Vathalai         11. Sinhbhu-
9. Saran            16. 8o3pur           14 Godd allt P la u                         12. Lohard sa
16. E. ChnIqparan    lo. SahlbgunJ         12. Purnus            18. Shahaba
17. Copslgeni        16i s   har           13. Katihar           14. Ohlnbnd
18  Sluan            17 D    anga          14. Nadhepura         15. Ciridih
19. Beguuar.l       1i. Saumtipur          1. Saharea            16. Huxzribagh
20. V. Champaran     19. N.dbub.ni                               17. Du ko
4. cujorat               10. BaMod           21. Rjkot             20. Surat             16. Ahmedabad         18. Khoda
11. Jumnagar        22  Junuud           21. Dena               17 Candbnagar        19. Pwn.h.ahmls
238 Anre i           22. Valued            18.  eahusna         20.  aEruch
24. Kutch            23. mhuvn.ur          19. Sebark.nthJ
20. Brn.uskntha
21. Surmndurnuger
o.  Huryane              12. Aelm            25.Rurukahetra        24  Curon              22 Hic  r
1. Jamunanagar    26. Kusnal             2S  Fnrid;bud         23 Shiusni
14. Rahtsk          27. Jind             26. Nohhindurgarh     24. Siru
27. Sonepat
. Hichl Pradesh          1. Hulpur           28 Salan              20. Kul lu            2S  Luhaul a Spiti  21 Sirnur
16. Hand            29 8tlu-pur          29. Kinnaur           26. Chnab.            22. ShEul
80. Una              80. Kengra
7. Karnataka             17.        r.            Bunguloru(U)     31 Oalharg&           27. B lgau           23. N.-
18. Tumbur          82. Kolur.            2. 3Ilder            28. Oharad            24  Kodagu
a8    . Kannada      83  Bu lan            29 U. K nnods        25. Heeuun
84. ChIckangalor    84. Chtredurgeu        80 Ruichur            26. Nandya
35. Shimag                                 81. Bijupur
B. Kerau                 19  Al luR  ollnm                        8W  KCaurgad           32  Ernakulam         27. Idukki
20.  lapuram        37. Pettnenthitt    86. Knnur              88. Palaghat          28. Kottayn-
8. Thirue.purao      37. Kghikod           84. Thriesur
88. Vynad
9. Hadhy_ Pradoal        21. BIpal           3;. Gwtl jr           39. Inr,              88  Chettarpur       29. Jobelpur
22  Re              40  Bhtnd            40. Vest Nt_r         a36  Tlcuagarh        8o.  nadl
28. VI  ha          41. Nor nc           41. East NImar         87  Sbgr             S1. Seont
24  Dher            42. otla             42. ihabum             88. Dead             82 Naruinghpur
25. Relson          4. Shlvpurl         4a. Betul               89. Panna            889 Chhindwera
44  Gun              44. Khunduo           40. Roo               S4  b I.hut
458  BilIspur        45. Rctpur            41  Sidhi            aS: RatYar
46  Suraui           48. OurU              42. St nc            s8. Mandeur
47. Reigarh          47. Jienalur          43. Shuhdol          87. Shajupur
46  Ruana:ndgaan                           a88  U3jan
49. Hwhngeb.d                              89. D0 
10. Mahcrehtre           26  Nugpur          48. Chandarpur        t. Kolhapur           44  Puns             40. Aklora
27. Yu.atuol        49. Ohndre           51 Sngl                45. Satara           41. Buldena
80. V.rdbe           52. Rftnueglr         46 Sholupur           42. Amravati
a1. 'urabhanl         8  Aurangabud        47. Nulki             48. Than.
52. bomnabaud        84. Ah-mdn.ger        48. Dhulo             44. 8obny
83. N4nded           55.g eed              49. Jalagern
84. Latur           W6 lJint               60. Ralad
8W. odchiroll                              51. Slndbudurg
11. Oriu                 20   eni            86. Bolngilr          a7. 81ore             o2. Phulbcni         43. Purl
29. 5abulpur        a. Sundorgerh        o8. Nsyurbhunj         83. Kuibandi        46. Cuttuck
0. Konjhar          8. Ohnaknnul                                54. Korcput
12. Punjab               81. Farldko         59. Jullandhnr        A9. rItar 67-  i5           rcapur         47. Ptia
82.  =opar          60. Lukhtana         60 ourdanpur           6. Butind.           48. Sangrur
s  H lhtorpur                            61 Kupurtla I
13. Pajuathun            84    lur           61. Sihar             62. bundi             57. Jatealmr         49. Waipur
65.  iodhpur        62. Jhunjhunu        68. Jhalawar           B6. Burmer           s0. Chittsurg.rh
6  Kote             68. Aluer            64 8 Hedhopur          59. Jalor.           51. Dungarcur
37. Fhl-eara        64.  heratpur        a6s 6kmn.r             60. PalI             52  A3er
38. Banuanra        6. Dholpur            6 Srlignngenager      61. SIrohl           8   Tank
67. Churu                                  54. Nageur



-81-                                        ANNEX 8
Page 3
State                      1991-1992            10-02-1003           1008-104               1O04100a         l00lEowi
14. Tail Nadu            30. North Arcot      a6. Quids Uilut      68. madras            62. TiruehirepelllS. AT Sabuvans
40. Thirunelvelli   67. Salem            69 Ch ngelpnttu        63. Pedukkattel   W. S. Arcot
41. Dherenepurl    68. Madurai           70.     abater.        64. P.H.R. Llagem 57. Chideabrnenr
42. Ramnathapurmm   69. KOOrPJer         71. Porl,r                                8. Kanyakumerl
72. Nil l  I.
78. Vn  cor ADbd.
15. Utter Prad*Zh        43. Verannai        70 STtapur            74. OorakhPur         85. Agia           W9  Varnbad
44. Chagipur        71. Hodoi            75  D orn             t66  #hthure       60. 11 inor.
45. Mirtapur        72. Unnao            7t. Salti              67. AlIgarh       61. DuI ndahar
5. Lucknow          73. RulibereIly      77 Azaigarh            Ui Hninpuri       62. lldun
47. Oarabmnkl       74. K. Lakhiupur    78. Sanbhadra           69. Etah         6t. ihnnal
75  Jaunpur          79. Kanpur(R)         70. Fereszbad      64. L1i1tpur
76. Belle            eO. Etawah            71. i7hradun       65. IHirpur
77. Allahabad        81. rarrukhab.d      '72. Purl Corhwal 66. Jalun
78. Pratapgerh       62. Feisabed          73. T. Cerhuel    $7. bonds
79. Fet.hpur         SS. Cando             74. Uttar Kahi   68.  Iare,lly
80. Meerut           64. iehrolch                             69. Pilihhit
81. Nusffernmger   68. NhnreJganJ                             70. shejepur
82. Saharanpur       W6. Alnora                               71. RP.nur
84. Chn iabd i        7 Pittorgarh
tHneu              Sl    ilts,
W5: Herldwnr         29. KNa§Pu:1)
S6. Sldiherthnemer
16. Vast Bengal          48. Nwreb           97. DarJeoling        90. Ilurshtibi        70. Purulla        72. 24-Pnresg ne-N
1). Calcutta       88. Jaipeigur         a1. Nrdle             76. bankura        73. Vat Dlneipur
O. 24-Parnagnes-S  89. Zechbehar                                77. Midnaur       74. 4aldb
90. Ourdwuen                               78. Tool
91. Birbhus                                79. loghly
;7. Jame A Keaheir       92. Jn_mu           92. Larpur            eo Urlneger           7S.  uin
93  Rejourl         9. Dadl1  k aremoulln                       7   Anentneg
94. Ponch           04. Kupwara          62. Kathua             77 VWragIl
93. Phuluenn                               78. Lah
1S. Delhi                                     96  Delhi
19. Manipur              95. Imphel           97. illhnupur        W. thndel             79 T-aneilona
96. Thoubal         98. ChurachEudpur   84, Ukrul               806  Senepel
20.-                     97. Khas, Hills    99. W. Oaro Hill l      5. E. Caro Hill*    1. W. Khu i Hi ll-
82. Jeintil Hills
21. Nagaland               . Kohioa           100. MokoIchung      86  ZuI hoto          es Tuenv-3
67. LIa&hla           84. Nr
85. Pr.ek
22. Sikking              09. North Sikkim                           8  Ea  SikimT        85. Ve    Sikkim
87. South Sikkim
2S. Tripura              1O0. Tripura South                        69. Tripura Ema:      i   rrTpurs West
24. Arunsch. Pradeah                                               3i L.  ST neirl       59. Dang Valley
02. E -t Slune        91. E. Kanti
0. TLen S2 V. Sublnr
OS. V. Kn_ngo
04. Tlrep
26. Coo
28. Miszora                                                        94. ChhituTpui        95. AiTer
97. Lunsole
27. Chandigarh                                                     95. ChnndlTearh
28. D A N Hevel.i                                                  9. D A N  Haveli
29. Poidicherry                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~97. Poid  cherry  M5 ahe
29. Pondicherry                                                                              Yn Karakit  90. ibh
3S. A a N I-lend-                                                  99. Anemns             100. NTcobar
3I1. Lekahedneec                                                                          101. Lakehadinep
S2. Damon I Diu                                                    1oo. Down 7 Diu



- 82-                                           ANNEX 8
Page 4
Phasing of Safe Motherhood Districts
1991-1992  _1923 less-194                                       1994-1es9           100ss-1
1. UrTAR PRADEI          1. Burebanki         1   Btuapur          1. Fatnhpur           1. Farrukhabad       1. ubtarkahi
2   Varanusi        2.  Hemrdo           2   lAarut             2.  F,imabad        2. Nordabad
8.   halpur         8   Lucknogw         8. Ftaffarngar         3. OndU             3: etJ"ne
4   Mirzapur        4  Lhnno             4. FAu Moth Oh jn   4.  Buhralch           4      andahahr
8. Rno Baroll        0. Saharanpur         S.  ahharajemnJ      S. BOdaun
6.  Lakhipur         6. Chaziabod          6.  Alsora           6. Chameli
7   Jaunpur          7  t4arIdwr           7. PithoraBerh       7.  Jhan&i
8. Be   a            S. Slddhurth Hagur  8.  Ntini Tal          6. Shahjahanpur
9. Gorakhpur          9. Ara              9. La Iteur
10. Deorit            10. uthura          10. HIirpur
11. east              11. Aigarh          II: Julaun
12 Ar nerh            12. Fuinpuri        12. BSnds
1: Son ohure          13. Etah            18. Ubr.illy
14. Kanpur (Urban)    14. Firozabad       14. Piltbhit
15. Eta oh            15. Debra Dun       13. Runpur
i6: Kanpur (Rural)                        16. Paur3  aorhn5l
17. Prta, uh                              17. TdirI CuruhalI
1iS AlI ahaLd
2.  oIlHAR               S. Saran             9. Patte             17. B.gusaral         16. Sumatipur        18. Ranch.
6. 0asy             10. Auraneabad       lo. Mahyr              17. K,tihar         19. Ohanbad
7. 6hojpur          11. Rohts            19. W. Caparan         16.  &Ihdubani      20. Ounla
12. Noland.          20. shagaIpur         19. lrdhnur          21. Singbbuu
18. baud.            21. Khagaris          20 Shar,            522. L=harda
14  E. Chpuaran      22.  noeghyr          21. Purnia           2S. Jahanabad
18.  cpal:ganj       28. Cadda             22. Ituzffa rcur    24. Dhanbad
16  8.an             24 Saha&ganj          24. Sitamrh         2i. Oiridih
26  D=rh:n"a          26. P 1s u           n. Dunks
8.  FAtWA PRADES         6. Cher              17. Shoual           27. Guns              26. Jagdalpur        28. SIdhi
9. Ralon            15. Oaior            28. Bil pur            2. Saar             29 Satnsa
30 Raj-.4           19. hind             29. Surua'             28. Rajnand=on      30. Jubalpur
31  Vt she          20. Morns"           30 Raegarh            29 Hoahangabud       31 Fl nAl
21.D tti             31  Indora            30. Chhatarpur       82. Seon.
22. Shlwvpuri        82 Raipur             81 Tikaearh         38   Mr.inghpur
38S Yest Nimr         32. Damon           84. Chhinduara
34. East Nimr         88. Penna           85. Balaghat
85. Jhabus            84. RPA             86. Rutlan
W6. eetul             85. Shahdol         87. Ftndswur
87. Khandwa           W6. Dure            S8 Shaimpur
39. UJeitn
40. Dawa
4. RAJASTHAN             12. Otl-rr           28. Jlpur            88. Jhunjhunu          W7 Sri:ann,nagur  41 Wntpur
18. BOnosare        24. Jdhpur           89. Aluar              388  Jaut_r         42. Chittorgar,
14. Alsar           25. KNtS             40. Sharat.pur         89. Julore          48. Dunarpur
15. Suta Fa dhopur 28. SUgar             41 Oholpur             40  Pull            44. Ajr
42. Sundi             41. Sirobi          48tNa ur
48. Jhalauar          42. Tank            46. Si kanur
47. Churu
S. ORISSA                16. KNonhar          27. Bolangir         44B aor               48. KaIahandi        48 MayurbhanJ
17. Sasbalpur       28. Sundurgerh       48. Dhankanal          44  Koraput         49. Phulbani
18. Canjam                                                      456  Puri
48. Cuttuck
8. TAMIL NU              12. North Areot
20. Thtrunnlvell1
7. ASSAN                                      29. Kuarup           46. COgapara          47. Sonitpur        810. K. Anlaft,
30. Nrs;on           47 Darrung            48. Lakhlapur        S1. N C. Hi 11
48. KaritpnJ          49. Dhubrl          82  OCleahat
49. Jorhat            SO. Kohrjhar        88. Cachar
S0. BSrpeta                               54. Dibrugarh
;5. Siboeger



- 83 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Costs of the National MCB Pro2ram
Proposed Two-
Actual        Actual          Yeor Plan       Actual      Approved
Expenditure   Expenditure   (1990/91-91/92)    1990/91    Outlays
Components              1989/90     for Seventh       and Eighth      Outlay    1991/1 m
Five-Year Plan   Five-Year Plan
(1986/86-89/90) (1992/98-96/97)
----------------------------- Re. Million -------------------__-__
1. Maintenance of Subeenters   1,100.00       4,171.90          17,206.20      1,990.00    1,992.79
under the Family Welfare
Program 1/
2. Opening of Additional            -              -             2,160.00        183.00      180.00
Subcenters on a Selective
Basisa
S. Modification in Norms of         -              -             1,862.76        276.00      271.70
Assistance for MediTino
4. TrainTng of Heolth Workers    110.00          680.01          1,238.60        122.27        -
(ANMS/LHVS)
5. Integration of Universal         -              -             9,790.63          -       1,264.66
Immunization Program and
Other Child Survival Program
which Include:
(a) Immunization               600.00      1,498.38                          600.00         -
(b) Prophylaxis Schemes         80.00        846.51               -           8B.00         -
(e) O.R.T. Program              60.00         78.98               -           90.00         -
(d) Control of ART               -                       -                      -           -
(o) Training of DAIS            12.00         58.20               -            14.00        -
6. National Institute of            1.60           1.50              -             2.00         -
Maternal and Child Heolth
7. Extending Facilities for         8.00           8.64            160.00         3860         -
Medical Terminiation of
Pregnancy (MTP)
TOTAL                   1,966.50      6,789.02          81,905.19     8,862.77    8,699.05
/ This represents the liability/obligation of the Central Government to cover
the recurrent costs of the program (auxiliary nurse midwife, helper, rental
charges and medicines) from Plan to Plan.



-84-                            ANNEX 9
Page 2
Incremental Costs
Proposed Two-
Year Interim and
Actual Seventh    Proposed Eighth
Five-Year Plan    Five-Year Plan
Expenditures      Outlays          Increment
--------------  RS. Million  -----------__
A. National MCH Program                 6,739.02        31,903.19        25,164.17
B. Deductions
o Item 1                             4,171.90       17,206.20        13,034.30
(Maintenance of Subcenters)
o Item 7                                 8.54          150.00           141.46
(Extending MTP Facilities)
o Item 5                                  -                -          3,832.53
(Non-incremental drugs and
medicines)
17,008.29
C. Project Costs
Total Estimated Project            (25,164.17   -   17,008.29)  =  8,155.88
Base Costs



- 85 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERuiOOD PROJECT
Bilateral and Multilateral Assistance to Health and Family Welfare
Donor       Amount          Period                       Program
WHO       US$30.0 Mn.      1984-87   Biennium Programs provision of general
medical supplies equipment, educational
activities, including training of Indian
experts, supporting research projects.
US2.08 Mn.       1988-89   For research under Human Reproduction Pro-
gram
US$0.3Mn.        1990-91   FW/MCH Services in Urban Areas
UNICEF    US$9.44 Mn.      1980-86   Support to MCH and Immunization program
US$29.0 Mn.      1985-90   Support to health programs, particularly
Expanded Proram of Immunization (EPI),
Sexua'ly Transmitted Diseases (STD), Oral
Rehydration (ORT) and Primary Health Care,
support to health worker training, and
provision of vehicles, syringes, needles
and vaccines.
UNFPA     US$184.0 Mn.    1974-90   Promotion of cash and kind to support
Family Welfare Schemes, manufacturing of
contraceptives, development of population
education programs, strengthening program
management, training lower-level Health
Workers. and introducing innovative
approaches in FP and MCH.
US$50.0 Mn.      1980-86   AREA PROJECT: Rajasthan (4 districts),
Bihar (11 districts)
US$14.05Mn.      1989-94   Area Project Phase II Rajasthan (13 dis-
tricts)
DANIDA       .2.0 Mn.                 Support to Leprosy Control Program.
1 30.0 Mn.    1981-86   AREA PROJECT: Madhya Pradesh (8 dists)
Tamil Nadu (2 dists).
Dk.126.56 Mn.   1989-92   Area Project Phase II: Madhya Pradesh, Tamil
Nadu. No new districts added.
ODA       Pd.Stg.170,000      -       Experts to support various health insti-
tutions.
US$15.2 Mn.      1981-86   AREA PROJECT: ORISSA (5 districts)
Pd.Stg.20 Mn.   1989-94   Area Project Phase II:  Orissa (5 districts)
SIDA      SK 125.0 Mn.    1984-89   Equipment and other support for TB, Leprosy
and Malaria Control Programs.



-86 -
Page 2
Donor       Amount          Period                     Program
NORAD     NK.378.5 Mn.    1969-88   Support to post partum program in Urban
and Semi-Urban areas.
NK.9OMh         1988-91   Training and Management activities under
Post Partum Program
USAID     US$ 20.0 Mn.    1981-      Strengthening private and voluntary sector
to expand and improve basic and special
preventive health, family planning and
nutrition programs.
US$33.0 Mn.    1980-86   AREA PROJECT: Punjab(3 dists), Haryana
(3 districts), Himachal Pradesh(3 dists),
Maharashtra (3 districts)
US$47.0 Mn.               Development of a Contraceptive Marketing
Organization.



- 87                         ANNE-l
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
IDA-Assisted Population and Nutrition Projects
Credit   Name of    Description        Effective  Closing  Total   IDA Disbur-
No.      project                       Date       Date      Project Cr. sement
Jun.1991
_(In Millions of USS)
U.P.(6 dists)
Karne.taka(5 dists)
CR.312  1st Pop-  a)expansion of           05/73  05/80    --    21.20   21.20
ulation   health infrastruc-
ture; b)provision
of additional supp-
lements and testing
alternative patterns;
c)creation of two
population centres
to desi8n a MIES,
evaluate performance,
and recommend changes;
d)technical assistance;
and e)creation of popu-
lation units in two
established management
institutes.
A.P.(3 districts)
U.P.(6 districts)
CR.981  2nd Pop-  Project was based on   07/80   03/88   96.0   46.0   38.8
ulation   GOI Model Plan(Area
Projects Program).
Included a)construc-
tion of facilities;
b)provision of staff;
c)training; d)IEC;and
e)monitoring and evalua-
tion.



- 88 -                         ANNEX 11
Page 2
Credit   Name of    Description        Effective  Closing  Total   IDA  Disbur-
No.      project                       Date       Date      Project Cre. sement
Jun.1991
(In Millions of US$)
Karnataka(6 diets.)
Kerala(4 dists.)
CR.1426  3rd Pop- a)Civil works in         05/84   12/90  123.5   70.0   80.78
selected districts
and on broader
state perspective;
b)training; and c)
monitoring & evalua-
tion.
West Bengal(4 disets.)
CR.1623  4th Pop- a)Civil works in         12/85   12/91   89.9   51.0   42.13
ulation selected districts
and on a state-wide
basis; b)training;
c)monitoring and
evaluation;d) demand
generation; e)service
delivery, and f)dev-
elopment of a State
Institute of Health
& Family Welfare.
CR.1931 5th Pop-  Bombay and Madras        12/88   12/95   78.2   57.0   35.60
ulation   a)construction of
new and rehabilita-
tion of existing
health posts;
b)development of out-
reach programs; c)re-
organization of Family
Welfare Bureaus; d)trg
of all cadres of family
welfare workers; and e)
increasing PVO and private
sector participation in
family welfare through
grants-in-aid and innova-
tive schemes.



- 89 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3
Credit   Name of    Description        Effective  Closing  Total   IDA  Disbur-
No.      project                       Date       Date      Project Cre. sement
Jun.1991
(In Millions  of USk)
Cr.2057 6th Pop-  Andhra Pradesh,    02/23/90    03/97   182.0   124.6  20.5
LN.3108 ulation   Madhya Pradesh,
and Uttar Pradesh.
a) const. furnishing,
and equipping of SIHFW,
Divisional (Regional)
Training Centers and
District Training Teams:
b) strengthening Direc-
torates of Health and
Family Welfare through
creation of Human Resource
Development Cells, insti-
tuting Personnel Manage-
ment Information Systems;
c) rehabilitating and
building new pre-service
training institutes for
Male and Female Health
Workers; d) training of
trainers and development
of training materials; and
e) upgrading facilities,
equipment & vehicles at
PHCs and sub-centers.
Cr.2133 7th Pop-  Bihar, Gujarat       03/19/91    06/98   141.5    86.7   5.0
Ln.3199 ulation   Haryana, Jammu &                                   10.0
Kashmir, Punjab
a) increasing the
supply of services
through upgrading and
expanding the number
of Primary Health
Centers and Subcer.ters,
and increasing the supply
of medicines, equipment
and supplies for family
planning and maternal
and child survival
strategies; b) increasing
demand through the expansion
of the Social Marketing of
Contraceptives, increasing
the involvement of PVOs in
the FWP, and strengthening



-90-                        ANNEXil
Page 4
Credit   Name of    Description        Effective  Closing  Total   IDA  Disbur-
No.      project                       Date       Date      Project Cre. sement
Jun.1991
(In Millions of US$)
(cont.)           the IEC efforts in each of
the States; c) improving the
quality of fz'mily welfare
services by upgrading the
training of all levels of
family welfare workers; and
d) improving management
through the strengthening of
each State's Directorate of
Health and Family Welfare,
upgiading of MIEPMS, and
expanding demographic and
operational research directly
relevent to program manage-
ment and implementation.
Cr.1580 Second    Tamil Nadu           12/05/90    12/97   139.1    95.8   6.24
Tamil     a) Service Delivery
Nadu      to increase the range
Integra-  coverage and quality of
ted Nu-   nutrition and health services
trition   to the target groups through
improvements in the design of
software systems, provision of
nutrition and health education
and of health referral services,
supply of therapeutic food to the
malnourished, increasing the
availability of equipment and
dfugs for maternal and child
health, and training for health
and nutrition workc,rs and
traditional birth attendants;
b) communication and community
participation, to stimulate
demand for project services,
improve child feeding and care
practices and promote community
involvement, through support for
insitutionAl development, provi-
sion of communciaitons equipment
and materials, and support for
formation of women's groups and
community education; and c) project
management and evaluation, to
expand and strengthen TINP I's PCO,
to expand and strengthen the
existing monitoring and



-91-                         ANNEX 11
Page 5
Credit   Name of    Description       Effective  Closing  Total   IDA  Disbur-
No.      project                      Date       Date     Project Cre. sement
Jun. 19u
(In Millions  of USS)
(cont.)           evaluation system, to develop
a new apex institution for
nutrition communications and
training activities in the
state and to provide support
for operations research.
Cr.2173 First In- Andhra Pradesh      01/28/91    12/97   157.5    96.0   5.65
LN.3253 tegrated  Orissa                                            10.0
Child     a) service delivery, to
Develop. increase the range, coverage
Scheme    and quality of nutrition
and health services to target
groups through improvements in
the design and implementation of
software systems, training for health
nutrition workers, provision of
nutrition and health education and
health referral services, increasing
the availability of drubs and
equipment for maternal and child health
and the supply of therapeutic
supplementary food to malnourished
beneficiaries, and construction of
village nutrition centers, offices and
residences for key field staff; b) com-
munications to stimulate demand for
project services and improve child
feeding practices and care through
production and dissemination of media
messages, provision of equipment and
materials and training; c) community
mobilization to increase local
participation in and support for project
services and activities through testing
of innovative women's development
activities including activation of
village women's groups, development of
income-generating activities, non-formal
study courses for women and development
of training programs for adolescent girls;
and d) project management and evaluation
to manage, monitor and evaluate the project
and conduct operations research to analyze
and improve aspects of project design.



- 92 -
ANNEX 11
Page 6
Section 2s Application of Lessons-Learnt to Project
Lessons Learned                           Prolect Reference (SAR)
Attention given that field worker jobs               Paras 3.30-3.31, Annex 18
are manageable
Attention given to field worker daily and            Paras 3.30-3,31, Annex 18
monthly routines
Refresher training be provided to field workers      Paras 3.28-3.29, Annex 5,
Section 3
Prompt and adequate medical care for those           Para 3.24, Annex 17
who develop obstetric complications
The quantity and quality of MCH is for below         The Project
desired levels                                        (paras 3.07-37)
Awareness of the need for effecitve care is          Para 3.32, Annex 19
low in the community
Awareness of the need for effective care is          Para 3.32, Annex 19
low among pregnant and lactating women
Improving the quality of management is critical      Para 4.13, Annex 27
to influencing the demand for services
Analysis of local demographic and sociological       Para 4.16, Annex 29
characteristics is fundamental to efficient
and effective use of resources at the local
level
Skills and aptitude in community mobilization        Para 3.37 - draft
are limited among para-medical and medical           Social Mobilization
staff                                                Plan in Project File
Need to forge linkages between training efforts      Para 3.33, Annex 20 and
and improvements in the use of MIES to               Para 3.29, Annex 5,
cihieve significant change in performance            Section 3
Vitamin A research                                   Para 3.12
Iron deficiency anemia research                      Para 3.17-3.18



-93-                           ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
The Univrsal X uniaation Proar!n
Section l Background of the Program
Introduction
1.          The Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) was initiated in India
in 1978 with the objective to reducing morb!dity and mortality caused by
diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough), tetanus, poliomyelitis, and childhood
tuberculosis. Measles vaccine was added to the program in 1285. Achievement
of self-sufficiency in v-accines production was also a part of the program.
2.          The Universal Immunization Program (UIP) was started in 1985 to
expand coverage and to improve services, until all districts in the country
are covered. Starting with 30 districts in the catchment area of 30 Medical
Colleges, the program by 1987 covered 182 districts within the catchment areas
of all of the country's 106 Medical Colleges. The program goals were intended
to include the reduction of mortality of pregnant women due to tetanus, as
well as research and development on improved and new vaccines.
3.          The success of the program in lowering the incidence of Tetanus,
Diphtheria, and Pertussis, has been dramatic despite it not having fully
reached the program target of 85Z coverage by 1990. With coverage of infants
over 30Z and coverage of pregnant women to almost 5O0 by 1987, a new program
was launched to continue the momentum of the UIP as wel as focus on aspects
of the program inhibiting further progress.  The prog-   49 planned not only
to assist the expansion of coverage, continue the MomILcum gained in the
decrease of tetanus. diphtheria and pertussis, but also to gain significant
decreases in measles, poliomyelitis and tuberculosis. The *Technology Mission
on Vaccination and Immunization of Vulnerable Population* was designed to
accomplish these objectives and includes four major components: storage and
distribution of vaccines; administration of vaccines, monitoring and
evaluation; R&D for new and improved vaccines; and production of vaccines.
4.          In 1990 the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare produced
guidelines to implement the National Immunization Program (NIP).
The National Mission on Immunization
5.          The four mini-missions comprising the National Mission was
launched in 1988 and are divided between two Ministries. The two mini-
missions for implementing the program, "Storage and Distribution of Vaccines',
and *Administration of Vaccines, Monitoring and Evaluation", are the
responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW). The two
mini-missions dealing with the research and development vaccines, 'The R&D for
New and Improved Vaccines', and the 'Production of Vaccines' are being
carried-out by the Department of Biotechnology of the Ministry of Science &
Technology. The National Mission will integrate strategies to reduce infant



- 94 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
mortality with existing other interventions including antenatal - prenatal
care, breast feeding and nutrition, safe drinking water and better sanitation,
improved rural health care, control of diarrhoea and ORT, family planning,
health education and female literacy. The strategy not only will add posts
for immunization specialists at the State and district levels, including an
officer-in-charge of the cold-chain and a district refrigeration mechanic to
work with existing health workers, but also will coalesce collaboration with
government institutes, organizations and community-based groups.  These
include, for example, the Indian Council of Medical Research, the All India
Institute of Medical Sciences and local groups such as ICDS workers, school
teachers and PVOs. PVOs include Rotary International, the Indian Medical
Association and its branches, Impact India, All India Women Conferences,
Pariver Sanatha Kendra and the Family Planning Association of India.
National Immuni7ation Program Standards and Training
6.          In 1990, the MOHFW published revised standards and training
manuals in four major topics that had been adopted earlier from World Health
Organization publications: conduct disease surveillances; manage the cold
chain system; conduct the immunization session; and evaluate vaccination
coverage.
(a) Conduct Disease Surveillance. This whow-tot manual provides
standards for case definitions, a system for recording and
reporting data, the analysis and use of reports for local action,
how to conduct investigations of coverage, how to take action and
to report the results. Action flow-charts are provided as are
reporting forms, sample uork schedules, and how to calculate
coverage and vaccines needed. The target audience is the health
center and district-level health workers.
(b) Manage the Cold Chain System. This manual establishes basic
requirements for maintaining the potency of all vaccines at each
transfer point from the manufacturer - airport - state/region -
district stores - primary health center - sub-ceni.er and the
villages. Formulas and proformas are provided for calculating the
Vaccines Administration Rate (VAR) and the Wastage Multiplication
Factor (WMF) as a part of estimating vaccine requirements for each
of the six major vaccines used in the program (TT, DPT, OPV, BCG,
DT arad Measles). Forms are provided for pregnant women's
antenatal care (ANC), infants, immunization records and the
stability of each vaccines at various temperatures.
(c) Conduct Immunization Session. This manual focuses on task
descriptLons and lob responsibilities for health workers and
volunteers from the district to the village level. There are
sample work sheets for learning all of the activities required for
carrying out the program from the Action Plan to the Reporting and
follow-up forms. Samples of IEC materials are included as well as
calendars for program implementation.
(d)   Evaluate Vaccination Coverage.  This manual provides detailed
instruction on accurately measuring vacciaition coverage,
including participating agencies, areas with good and poor



- 95 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3
coverage, whether vaccines are being given at the right age, and
identifying areas of poor attendance and high drop-outs. As with
the other Ohor-to* manuals in the NIP implementation series,
reporting forms and anal 'is are provided.
7.          The Universal Immunization Program (UIP) is a well developed and
planned program that overlaps and contributes to overall Health and Family
Welfare activities. The challenge to reach program targets of 100Z coverage
of pregnant women and 852 coverage of all infants will require continued and
increased funding as well as concentrated and improved training, outreach,
coordination and integration with other programs, logistics, and vaccines R&D
and manufacture.
8.          The Immunization Schedule
E___  ,   OIEAL DW.IZ^ATION SCHA.E
FM PtNWT WS                         _       FAR O4IRWi
Early Iln   One           At 1.5  At 2.85  At .   At 9   At 16  At S   At 10
Prognncy  month           Month.    months    Month.    Months  to 24  tara  a 16
Later     _____months                                    Yerar
Tl-l    On.                B.C.C.  One
_______ In i ect.  ___           Ini ect  _ ___
TT-2            On"        D.P.T   First  Second    Third    Boost-
Booster         InJect.           Injoet    Inject    Inject  or
-   -        -     - ~~     ~~     ~~~~~~~~ -I Inject  -  
O.P.V.  First  Sen  Third         at-
_________  Dose  Do"   Doe            or Oose
Mnealeis                  On
__________   ___________  _________      ~~~~~~~Inject
D.T.                                    On.
should be  iven 1 moth  fe   ..1    ..2  Botr   hudb
_____   be  -le   -h -w -.T  -ncios   Bu fsehsrcived these
Inj -
Oct.
*     For full immunization of pregnant women and children, the
recommended schedute is followed.
* IelTwo T.T. injections must be given during pregnancy. T.T.-1 should
be given as early as possible in the pregnancy. T.T.-2 (Booster)
should be given 1 month after T.T.-l. T.T.-2 (Booster) should be
given at least 1 month before the expected date of delivery.
gEven if the pregnant rnman is late in registering, she must still
be given the two T.T. injections. But if she has received these
two injections aiiytime in the last 3 years, she must be given only
a booster T.T. injection.
*  The Iammunization Schedule of Pregnant Women and Children is the
most important part of Iimmunization-
*  Ideally, the B.C.G. injection, and first dose of D.P.T. and O.P.V.
should be given when the infant is 1.5 months old. The se~cond
Injection/dose of D.P.T. and O.P.V. should be given 1 month later
(i.e. at 2.5 months of age) and the third injection/dose should be
given 1 month after the second (i.e. at 3.5 months of age).



- 96 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4
*     Even if the mother is late in bringing the infant for the D.P.T.
and O.P.V. injections/doses, all three injections/doses must still
be given, keeping a difference of 1 month between them, before the
infant is 1 year old.
Section 2s Logistics for the Universal Immunization Program (UIP)
9.          Vaccines retain their potency during storage and transportation at
a temperature range of +2 to +8 degree Celsius. The cold chain system
functioning in India under the Universal Inmrnizatior Program (UIP) ensures
that the vaccines are protected until it is delivered to the beneficiaries.
10.         For storage, distribution and transportation of the vaccines, the
following equipment are being used in the program: Walk-in Cold Rooms, Walk-
in Freezer Rooms, ice-lined refrigerators, deep freezers, vaccine carriers/day
carriers, vaccine delivery vans/jeeps.
11.         Walk in Cold Rooms (WICS) are used for storing the bulk supply of
vaccines received from the manufacturers/central stores. From the WICS, the
vaccines are distributed to the commnand districts through vaccine delivery
vans.  Each WIC aaSrv3 about 4 - 7 districts and WICs are situated at 104
locations in the country. It is proposed to establish additional WICS in
places where the travel time from the district headquarter is more than 6
hours.
12.         Each of the WIC is also supplemented by three Deep Freezers (300
lts) and 10 Cold Boxes (22 lts). The deep freezers are used to store Oral
Polio and Measles vaccines which have to be stored at -20 deg. C. The deep
freezers are also used to produce the ice-packs, which are required for the
transportation of vaccines in cold boxes from WICs to the districts.
13.         Walk in Freezer Rooms are located in a few selected locations.
These are used for the bulk storage of OPV and Keasles vaccines received
directly from the suppliers through air cargo. These locations are: Medical
Stores Depot, Karnal, Medical Stores Dept, Bombay, Medical Stores Dept,
Calcutta, Medical Stores Depot, Madras, Directocate of Family Welfare, Govt.
of UP., Lucknow, Directorate of Family Welfare, Govt. of Punjab, Chandigarh,
Directorate of Family Welfare, Govt. of MP, Bhopal.
14.         Maintenance of Cold Chain Equipment.  When the Cold Chain System
was established, freezers and chest refrigerators were installed and
maintained by commercial agencies under contract. For general care and
maintenance of the equipment, the post of Cold Chain Officer at State Level
and posts of refrigeration mechanics at district level were created.
15.         With the expansion of the cold chain, it is proposed that the
maintenance of equipment be taken over by the existing State Health Transport
Organization (SHTO) and Health Equipment Repair Organizations (HERO).
16.         A meeting to discuss cold chain maintenance during the Eighth
Five-Year Plan period (1990-95) was convened in New Delhi on 13-15 December,
1990. During this meeting, it was pointed out that several States have either
separate organizations for health transport maintenance or health equipment



- 97-                                                -
ANNEX 12
Page 5
repairs or a combination of transport ma.lntenance and health equipment
repairs. Although the units have different names in different States, their
functioning are essentially the same. The field units of these organizations
are either headed by a Junior Engineer or a Foreman. The other staff
available are, general mechanic, electrician, refrigeration mechanic, helpers
etc.
17.         A consensus was achieved in the meeting that the strength of the
refrigeration mechanics available in all the command districts served by each
WIC should be pooled and stationed at the WIC location. A small workshop with
workbench, almirahs, racks for machinery and tools will be provided adjacent
to the WIC room. The ref. mechanics who are available would be pooled into a
team and they would go to the field in a rooter, to attend to the break-down
as well as preventive maintenance. This arrangement will be more effective
once this team is supported by transportation and telephone facilities. While
the arrangement has been accepted as the ultimate goal, for the interim phase
it is proposed to maintain the equipment following one of two other
alternatives available:
(a)   through a maintenance contract with private comiercial agencies;
and
(b)   through an Association of Retired Defence Personnel.
18.         To date, the Governments of Assam, Orissa, Maharashtra, Kerala,
Mizoram and Union Territory of Andaman & Nicobar Islands have taken over the
maintenance of cold chain equipwmnt through their SHTO/HERO. The Governments
of Andhra Pradesh and Union Territory of Chandigarh have established
maintenance contracts with private agencies. The Governments of Karnataka and
Bihar are likely to enter into contracts with private agencies. The remaining
States are also in the process of deciding their mode of maintenance.
Section 3: Procurement of Vaccines
Government Policy
19.   When the Universal Immunization Program was started under the aegis of
the Technology Mission, self-sufficiency for the various inputs, particularly
vaccines, was laid down as one of the objectives of the Program. This
objective was included as one of the integral parts of the Immunization
Mission since continued availability of a supply of good quality vaccines is
the basic pre-requisite for the sustained implementation of the Gniversal
Immunization Program (UIP).
20. Until 1978, all vaccines required for the then Immunization Program were
being met out of the 'captivel production facilities available to the Ministry
of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW). These establishments are the Central
Research Institute, Kasauli, Pasteur Institute of India, Coonoor, and B.C.G.
Vaccine Laboratcry, Guindy, Madras.
21. When the Oral Polio Vaccine was introdtuced in 1978 none of the
production units of the MOHFW had the capacity to provide Oral Polio Vaccines.
It was therefore decided to procure the Oral Polio Vaccines required for the



- 98 -
AN=EX 12
Page 6
Expanded Program of Imuunization from the Haffkns' Bio Pharma Corporation
Ltd. (HBPCL), Bombay, which was blending the vaccine after importing the bulk.
When the Universal Immunization Program (UIP) was initiated in 1985, it was
realized that the captive production capacity available to MOHFW would not be
enough to meat the requirements of vaccines for the Program. It was. 4ecided
to procure the remaining requirements of the various vaccines from tit open
market. A decision was also made to set up an additional production unit for
the manufacture of Oral Polio Vaccines. Under these circumstances, a new
commercial undextaking, under the administrative control of the Department of
Biotechnology, BICOL, is being established -with a targeted production capacity
of 100 million doses by 1995-9C
22.   Achieving self-sufficiency was a conscious decision of the GOI given
the fact that Immunization Programs were being expanded throughout the world.
Unless concerted efforts for increasing indigenous production capacities were
made by all countries, particularlj India whose requirements are quite large,
and in view of the large numbers who would be immunized every year, there
would be a global shortage of all the vaccines, particularly of the Oral Polio
Vaccine (OPV).
23.   Because the total requirement of vaccines was being met earlier from the
captive production capacity, a policy decision was taken that the procurement
of the total amount of vaccines required for the Universal Immunization
Program is to be met from the following sources in order of priority:
(a) entire production capacity from the captive production facilities of the
MOUFW i.e. Central Research Institute, Kasauli, Pasteur Institute of
India, Coonoor and BCG Vaccine Laboratory, Guindy, Madras, will be
procured for the Program; and
(b) a balance if required, to be procured from the open LAarket.
24.   All procurement is presently undertaken by the MOHFW.  The DGS&D
facilitates procurement from non-MOHFW production units.
25. All drugs before being dispatched by the firms are subject to a quality
control analysis by the firms themselves. In addition, they must obtain a
certificate of standard product from any of the laboratories approved
by the Drug Controller of India. They also issue a certificate of warrantee,
assuring the replacement of the entire issue amount if any batch is found to
be sub-standard until its expiry date. Each batch of the medicine is subject
to a similar process.
26.   For vaccines, every batch is first analyzed by the firms. Samples are
then drawn by the Inspecting Officer and are sent to the National Drug Control
Laboratory at CRI, Kasauli, and only after it is declared as being of standard
quality, is the vaccine dispatched to the various consignees maintaining a
proper cold chain.
27. As far as quality assurance is concerned, no distinction is made between
the vaccines procured indigenously and the vaccines which are imported to fill
the gap between availability and requirement. All vaccines (that is, all
batches of each of the vaccines) must be declared as being of approved
formulation and having a potency acceptable for use.



- 99 -
ANNEX 12
Page 7
(MI III on Dos")
SUPPLIER        YLVR       OPT       n         DY      MSL      OPY       BCO
1. HPCL         1989-90    7.0      11.8      6.4       -       61.5       -
1990-91    5.9       6.4      6.4       -       14.9       -
2. BE           1989-90    8.50     X5.9       -        -        -         -
19m9-91    7.0      10.0       -       -         -         -
8. SIt          1989-90    44.84    69.90    11.41    15.30      -         -
1990-91    86.94    32.17    17.68    88.00     -          -
4. CRI          1989-90    20.70    22.00    12.4       -        -         -
1990-91    20.60    11.00    14.8       -       -          -
5. PII          1989-90    15.10    10.30    6.20       -        -         -
1990-91    14.80     7.20     6.0      -        -          -
6. BC0          1989-90    -          -        -        -        _-.40
1990-91    -          -        -       -         -       1k).60
7. RADICURA     1989-90    -          -        -        -       16.00      -
1990-91    -          -        -       -        14.90      -
8. SI!          1990-91    -         2.0       -        -         -        -
1990-91    -         2.0       -       -          -        -
HPCL    = Haffkins BID Pharos Corporation Ltd, Bombay
CRI     = Central Reserch Institute, Kasull
PII     = Pasteur Institute India, Coonor
8C0     = 8C0 Vaccine Laboratory, Madras
Section 4: Use of Disposable Syringes and Needles
28.          Current Policy and Practices.  The Government of India (GOI) uses
glass syringes and needles for the Universal Imnunization Program. The
following are the sizes used for different vaccinations/purposes.
Syringes         Needles        Vaccination/Purposes
2 ml.                23 g             DPT, Measles
1 ml.                26 g             BCG
5 ml.                20 g             For the purpose of
reconstitvtiton
29.          During 1987-88, GOI introduced the use of reusable plastic
syringes.  These were normally expected to la^x about 200 sterilizations, but
in practice they became unfit for further use after 20-25 injections. This
was due largely to the improper sterilization methods adopted bl the Health
Workers. Because of repeated sterilization/boiling, the syringes expanded and
the nozzles did not fit the needles. The markings on the barrel were also
spoiled after successive use. The Government had therefore stopped further
procurement of these syringes.
30.          The use of disposable syringes and needles has not been encouraged
by the GOI because of high costs and the higher risk of misuse. Nonetheless,



- 100 -
ANNEX 12
Page 8
(turing the Special Immunization Days observed in 1990 - known as 242 - 3.5
uiillion disposable syringes were procured (both Imported and local).
31.         Costs of Disposable Syringeslneedles (unit).  One 2 ml disposable
syringe (with needle) costs Rs. 2.25. One 1 ml. disposable syringe (with
needle costs Rs. 2.50.
32.         Costs of Reusable glass syringes/needles (unit) are as follows:
2 ml. syringes - Rs. 7.00
1 ml. syringes - Rs. 16.00
23 g. needles   -  Re. 10.00 per box of 12
26 g. needles   -  Re. 10.00 per box of 12
33.         The total cost of reusable glass syringes and needles for 1991-92
is estimated to be around Rs. 91.50 million, whereas tha cost of similar use
of disposable needles/syringes would be around Rs. 416.41 million. It is
therefore 4 1/2 times costlier to use disposable materials. There is no
indigenous technology to provide self-destructible needles.



- 101 v                        ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
National Program for the Control of Diarzhoeal Diseases
and Policy on Management of Diarrhoea through Oral Rehydration Therapy
Introduction
1.          Diarrhoea is globally associated with some 5 million deaths per
year. It is estimated that 1.5 million of these occur in India. A majority
of these deaths are preventable, caused by dehydration and linked to
malnutrition. Diarrhoea particularly affects children under five years of
age.   Because the incidence of diarrhoeal disease is less between 0-6 months
in breast fed children, the majority of deaths in that group would occur in
infants between 6 months and one year of age. The magnitude of disease
incidence is unknown due to the self-limiting nature of the disease and except
for cholera is non-notifiable. The disease is classified generally as
Diarrhoea, its major symptom, and includes Cholera, Dysentery and
Gastroenteritis. The major pathogeas causing the disease are bacterial, viral
and parasitic. The treatment of choice for most of these organisms is fluid
replacement because only a few of them cause intestinal wall damage where
drugs or antimicrobial therapy is indicated. Most of the organisms release
toxins when entering the intestinal tract that not only prevent absorption of
fluid from the large intestine but also increase cell permeability which
causes more secretion of body fluid to the intestines causing increased
movements and dehydration. Multiple socio-economic and climatic factors
contribute to the high magnitude of the disease including unsafe water supply,
poor hygiene and sanitation, illiteracy, drought, floods and inadequate
treatment of the disease, particularly withholding of food and fluids.
Findings in Rural India
2.          In coatrast with the high paediatric bed occupancy rates (25 to
40Z) due to diarrhoeal disease, the proportion of outpatient visits to public
facilities was only 5-7Z. This was one reason that diarrhoeal disease was not
given priority in past public health programming. A national study on
Diarrhoea in Rural India 1/ showed that home made solutions were widely
used, and that 65Z of all epicodes consulted a health 'professional' outside
the home with more than SOX of these consultations to private sector
practitioners generally called "doctors", but by and large, neither fully
trained nsr always licensed.
Rice-Based Oral Electrolyte Solutions
3.          Recent studies have indicated that cral rehydration solutions
prepared from rice not only ameliorate dehydration but also decrease
1/ Diarrhoea in Rural India - A Nationwide Study of Mothers and Practitioners-
Indian Market Research Bureau (IMRB) with the assistance of UNICEF and USAID,
Hema Viswanahan, Jon Eliot Rohole, Vision Books, 1990.



- 102 -                       ANNEX 13
Page 2
diarrhoeal fluid loss. They were found to promote greater absorption and
retention of fluid and electrolytes than did a glucose-based solution. 2/
The cited disadvantages of rice solutions, however, include the need for
cooking, the possibility of incorrect preparation, and rapid fermentation. In
addition, some infants may not tolerate whole starch.
The Current Plan of Action
4.          The major efforts during the Seventh Plan period (1985-90) were in
community awareness, training for diagnosis and treatment, providing pre-
packed oral rehydration so'-. 'on (ORS) as widely as possible, and the use of
simple home made solutionb.   ii strategy includes the oral rehydration
program as an integrated ,-- ,rRnt of the child survival package which
includes maternity and c   '-vlfare services as well as the universal
immunization program.  Tnc  [vt; was introduced into 90 districts in 1987-88
and is implemented under guidc,in6s provided by MOHFW with active cooperation
from other ministries and orgar.izations such as the Ministry of Human Resource
Development, Urban Development, und International and Voluntary Bodies. Most
districts were to have been covered by the end of 1990. Implementation at the
state level starts with a State Program Officer at the rank of Deputy/Joint
Director who is responsible for providing guidance, support, training, and
monitoring. The District Health Officer designs the training calendar for all
workers from the village level up, issues training guidelines, supplies CRS
and instructions for supervision, monitoring and coordination with other
agencies. The PHC Medical Officer arranges for staff training, procures ORS,
and is responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the program. He/she
is also responsible for extending the program to the village level through
training and inter-sectoral coordination with all field level organizations
such as block and ICDS workers.
Training
5.          Training at all levels of the service delivery system is
fundamental to the success of the program. State and district level staff
have received training at the National Institute of Communicable and Enteric
Diseases in Calcutta. Staff from India's 47 Health and Family Welfare Centers
(HFWTCs) have received training as trainers in Calcutta and in turn have
trained PHC staff in their catchment area. The Indian Medical Association,
the Indian Academy of Pediatricians and the Schools and Colleges of Nursing
have included ORT training for their students and practitioners. The Medical
and Nursing Councils of India hive included diarrhoea management as part of
their training syllabi. International and voluntary organizations have
published or assisted in mass health education efforts. For example, the
National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases, Calcutta, produced in 1989
a complete package of training for Doctors including a "Course Facilitator
Guide", 'Treatment and Management%, and "Nutritional Care During Diarrhoea".
Radio and television also has been active in the dissemination of the ORT
message.
2/ N. England Journal of Medicine, 1991; 324: 517-21.



- 103 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3
Supply of Rehydration Solution
6.          ORS has been supplied nationwide by the end of the Seventh Plan
period. Both public and private enterprises have been producin- the solution
with a sodium bicarbonate formula to help achieve cplf-sufEiciency. Further
development includes cost reduction methods such as replacing expensive
aluminum foil packaging with polytene and adding sodium citrate so as to
extend shelf life of the packets. Extensive demand generation and comunuity
health education campaigns are still needed if targets of reducing mortality
by 50X and increased utilization are to be achieved.
Monitoring and Evaluation
7.          Program implementation is monitored through an MIES and Sentinel
Centers at selected PHCs indicating trends on incidence, treatment and
mortality. Training is monitored by the quarterly status reports. Several
evaluation studies are underway. The principal difficulty in assessing
progress is that except for cholera diarrhoeal diseases are non-notifiable.
In addition, they are caused by a broad spectrum of multiple organisms that
are different from each other in morphology, patho-physiological effects and
approach for control. At present there are still 15-20? of the organisms
causing diarrhoeal diseases that are unknown. Also, the Rotavirus held
responsible for many diarrhoeas in children is not easily identifiable, and
needing more refined diagnostic tools. Different organisms prevail in
different geographic areas of the country.
The Government of India's Policy on Diarrhoeal Management
8.          The policy aims at reduced case fatality, improved nutrition and
reduced costs, while seeking long-term solutions to the diarrhoeal problem.
The case management strategy elucidates home treatment of diarrhoea, oral
rehydration solutions, feeding during and after illness and prevention of
further diarrhoea. The policy emphasizes that anti-diarrhoeals have no place
in the treatment of children. When dehydration is severe, children should be
referred to health facilities where intravenous fluids are indicated. The
policy states that antibiotics will not be given routinely. However, in cases
of bacillary dysentery, Co-trimoxazole or Nalidixic Acid were indicated. In
other situations, the pationt will be referred to an appropriate institution.
The Government periodically reviews its policy on Diarrhoeal Disease Control
with WHO and UNICEF.



- 104 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Social Narketing of Oral Rehydration Salt (ORS)
Introduction
1.       Diarrhoeal cases, during the pre- and post-monsoon season in India
amount for as much as 40 percent of paediatric beds and a third or more of
paediatric outpatient visits. Each year it is estimated that some 1.5 million
infants and children, die due to dehydration related to diarrhoeal disease.
Over the past years several research activities have been undertaken which
provide solid data and information on India's diarrhoeal problem. Research
findings particularly germane to the oral rehydration social marketing
programme are:
*     the incidence and death due to diarrhoeal diseases vary widely.
Maximum incidence and death occur in the urban slums and rural
areas.
*     71.9 percent mothers surveyed on an average provided extra fluid
to children suffering from diarrhoea;
*     14.2 percent mothers gave oral rehydration salts (ORS) to
children;
*     sugar/salt solution was used by 16.8 percent of mothers while
another 31.5 percent gave some other home made fluids.
*     1.9 percent of patients needed IV fluids;
*     regarding treatment, 56.7 percent used traditional remedies.
?           Good information of client and select health practioner,
knowledge, attitudes and behavior also has been gathered. The following
points are particularly noteworthy.
*     Efforts are needed to increase mothers' cn-.cern and actions early
in the course of onset of diarrhoea, prior to signs of significant
dehydration.
*     In most parts of the country diarrhoea is recognised as an
important illness and mothers can be readily convinced to pay
specific attention to the illness itself and the problems arising
therefrom.
*     Those who have ever used ORS have a high degree of satisfaction
with the product. Not only is it perceived to be effective in
overcoming anorexia, weakness and lethargy, but also, for those
who expected it to stop diarrhoea, it was perceived to have
worked.



- 105 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2
*     Rural families demonstrate a high level of trust and respect for
the opinion of private sector practitioners regarding their
treatment of diarrhoeal episodes.
*     Mothers were, by and large, willing to pay for medical care during
diarrhoea in their child. In general, it was found that families
expected to pay, and valued services for which they paid in
dealing with this illness.
*     The major response of village-based practioners regarding the.r
management of diarrhoea illness is sale of medicinal items aimed
at stopping the diarrhoea. While all were aware of ORS in one
form or another, relatively few prescribe it routinely, believing
it to be indicated only in cases of dehydration.
*     Most practitioners derive their income from the sale of drugs,
medicines, syrups and even injections administered to treat
diarrhoea. Practioners obtain supplies by travelling to the
nearest town or city where they consult regularly with a chemist
of their choice, and, purchase drugs for resale in their practice.
A major influence on prescribing practices was the regulax
interaction with the chemist and the supply of recommended
products for sale.
*     While amenable to use of ORS, practioners believe it does not face
the major question of stopping the diarrhoea and therefore do not
use it frequently.
3.          Additional research is being conducted which will provide specific
information pertinent to the ORS/social marketing programme. Such research
includes a nation-wide study to assess the demand of ORS and the profile of
supply sources; a study on diarrhoea management in urban areas, a cost/benefit
analysis of ORS vs IV fluids; and a study to obtain specific information on
mothers' knowledge of diarrhoea management.
4.          In 1985, as part of a total assault on the diarrhoeal problem, a
National Diarrhoea Management Plan was developed. The plan called for, among
other things, the marshalling of the resources of the public health
infrastructure and employ of a systematic Information, Education and
Communications (IE&C) to control and manage diarrhoeal disease. The active
involvement of the private sector in working with government in developing a
national oral rehydratlon salts/ social marketing programme was particularly
highlighted under the plan.
Aims
5.          The major aims of the GOI ORS/Social marketing programme are tos
(a) institute a national standard for ORS; (b) investigate various
alternatives to promoting the use of ORS through non-governmental
organisations; and (c) ensure sustainability of the programme after five
years.



- 106 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3
Product standardisation
6.          In India, currently over 75 manufacturers produce ORS of varying
composition and doses with prices ranging from R9.2 to Rs.8.5 per packet of
one litre solution. Almost 70 to 80 percent of the products available on the
market do not conform to the WHOJUNICEF approved composition, in addition to
being sold at relatively high costs. The wide range of ORS packets, available
in different doses, also varies in terms of packet size and packaging
materials. The majority of currently sold products consist of a package which
can provide solution equivalent to one litre.
7.          In order to promote oral rehydration therapy (ORT), it has been
seen as necessary to have a national standard for ORS packets.  Therefore, as
a policy measure, the MOHFW seeks to establish a national s-andard of CRS
packets.  These standards include:
(a)   WHO/UNICEF recommended formulation;
(b)   standard one litre dose;
(c)   standard size, packaging and packaging material;
(d)   standard instructions for use in two languages:  English and
a regional language;
(e)   standard graphic instructions for the illiterate consumer;
and
(f)   standard logo and name.
8.          Manufacturers, both in the public and private sector, are being
involved in the national effort to promote ORT as a solution to controlling
deaths due to dehydration from diarrhoea. A meeting was organised in February
1991 by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) with the drug manufacturers.
MOHFW, along with experts from international agencies such as WHO/UNICEF also
participated. A result of the meeting was consensus among medical
practitioners on the formulation of ORS and endorsement of the WHO/UNICEF
formulation as the mainstay for combating dehydration. IMA also emphasised
the need to have a uniform composition, a logo, and a pictorial mixing message
for correct use of ORS. The Indian Academy of Paediatricians also endorses
the WHO ORS formula as the ideal solution based on physiological findings.
The meeting ended with the recommendation that drug manufacturers should alter
current production to meet a standard product following the WHO recommended
formulation.
NGO marketing of ORS
9.          The MOHFW is considering various alternatives to promoting the use
of ORS through the involvement of NGOs. Several proposals have been received
and are being examined. The MOHFW's approach will be to implement various ORS
social marketing alternatives under an umbrella operational research
programme. The major proposals are described below:



- 107 -
ANNEX 14
Page 4
10.         Name of Company:          Population Services International
Title of proposal:       ORS Social Marketing: Optimisation of GOI
Condom Social Marketing, November 1990.
Areas of Operation:      Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jamu &
Kashmir, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and the
Union Territories of Candigarh & Delhi.
The population to be covered through these
States would be about 239 million (approx.
28 percent of India's total population).
Opera, ional strategy
Population Services International, (PSI) is involved in the social
marketing of contraceptives under the GOI family welfare programme. The
proposed strategy is to add ORS to PSI's existing contraceptive social
marketing activities and optimise the use of existing infrastructure.
Marketing approach
(a)   involvement of other private sector agencies, including private
voluntary organisations and commercial firms, in the supply,
selling, distribution and marketing of ORS.
(b)   pricing below normal commercial levels, but at a level that would
generate revenues for self-financing and expansion.
(c)   promote brand advertising.
(d)   utilise PSI salesmen and redistribution stocks to provide coverage
of their local and surrounding village markets.
(e)   tie-up with agencies specialising in village-to-village
redistribution of consumer goods with high rural demand such as
beedies, sweets etc.
(f)   Target 60 percent sales in cities and town above 50,000 population
in the first year and 40 percent sales in small towns and
villages.
Media Plan
The media plan would be to use a mix of mass media approaches to
promote ORS in rural areas. Mass media would include, use of audio-visual vans
and motor cycles.
11.         Name of Company:          Parivar Seva Sanstha
Title of proposal:       Pilot Project for Child Survival through
Effective Diarrhoea Management by Creating
awareness, promoting and increasing
acceptance of ORT.



- 108 -                       ANNEX 14
Page 5
Areas of Operations      Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana and Union
Territory of Delhi.
Operational strateg
Piggy-back on PSS current projects and conduct interpersonal
commnuication outreach education on ORT and, promote and market ORS packets.
Marketing strategy:
(a)   Conduct product launches when the peak seasons for diarrhoea
disease commence.
(b)   Use of PSS sales force to ensure that ORS packets are placed in as
many retail shops as possible.
(c)   link up with PSS clinics and van operations to further enhance
availability of the product in the smaller towns.
(d)   undertake promotional schemes such as retail inventive scheme to
encourage retailers to stock PSS's branded ORS.
Media Plan
PSS's plan is to use a mix of mass media, extension techniques and
interpersonal communication to create awareness about ORT and ORS.
Programme Sustainability
12.         There is a significant difference in the financial strategy
between the social marketing of contracep-ives and social marketing of ORS.
The social marketing of contraceptives is being supported by GOI on the basis
of the volume of contraceptives marketed and sold. The social marketing of
ORS has been formulated on the basis of 'resource gap", with a view to make
the projects self-sustainable in a period of five to six years. This means
that these social marketing projects would become self-sufficient because a
"built-in" profit would be sustained by the agencies on their own.
Management
13.         The ORS social marketing programme will be managed by the Project
Implementation Agency in the MOHFW's Department of Family Welfare. The Deputy
Secretary, MCH and the Assistant Commissioner for ORT will have joint
responsibility for programme management and implementation.
Budget
14.         The budget for the five-year programme is Ra 150 million rupees.



- 109 -                         ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE HOTHERHOMD PROJECT
Acute ResPiratory Infections In Children in India
Introduction
1.        ARI contribute to about 202 of mortality in children under 5 years
of age. It is the second most common cause of death in this age. ICMR
multicentric study shows ARI accounting for 15 to 302 of childhood deaths,
with mortality ranging from 3.2 to 13.8 per 1,000 children. Case fatality
rate in hospitals is around 10Z. While country-wide figures are not
available, it is estimated that ARI claim some 600,000 to 800,000 deaths among
children each year.
2.         Id addition to the high mortality, morbidity from ARI is
considerable.! Children suffer 3 to 5 episodes each year, lasting for 7-14
days. Although the vast majority of ARI are self-limiting, these cause
considerable discomfort as well as adverse nutritional impact. Huge expenses
are incurred by the community with expenditures on a wide variety of
medications als well as placing a burden on limited hospital facilities. ARI
accounts for about 30-602 of all outpatient visits and 20-402 of paediatric
admissions.
3.         Pneumonia incidence, although difficult to determine accurately in
India, is estimated to be several times higher than in developed countries. 20
to 30 per cent of all children suffer from pneumonia each year. This is in
contrast to 3.6Z found in a study from North America. Additionally, bacterial
etiology pneumonia is predominant in India in sharp contrast to the
preponderance of viral causes of pneumonias in Europe and North America.
Bacteria accounted for only 102 of all pneumonia in one major study from USA.
Up to 602 of pneumonias are caused by bacteria, mainly streptococcus
pneumoniae, Hemophilus influenzae, and to a smaller degree Staphylococcus
aureus. Fortunately, cheap and effective antimicrobial drugs are available to
control these bacterial infections, and if given timely, selectively and with
appropriate dosage schedules, can substantially reduce mortality.
Technical Basis for ARI Control
4.          A resolution of the World Health Assembly in 1982 recognized the
importance of ARI control as a distinct health program and recommz,nded its
inclusion along with prevention and control of other communicable diseases,
e.g. CDD, EPI. WHO has prepared protocols and recommended standard case
management of ARI for children. These recommendations form the basis for the
policy of GOI.
5.          Ten intervention studies have been conducted throughout the world,
using the WHO's standard case management protocols in order to evaluate the
feasibility and efficacy of this approach in different settings of developing
countries. These studies have demonstrated that Health Workers at the
community level can recognize pneumonia and provide antimicrobials in
appropriate doses, resulting in substantial reduction in pneumonia mortality.



-110 -                       ANNEX 15
Page 2
In India, mortality reductions have been convincingly demonstrated by
intervention studies in the community, as well as in clinical settings.
6.          Because pneumonia is by far the major cause of death, and other
symptoms of acute respiratory illness such as wheezing, ear infection, sore
throat are not important causes of mortality, the Indian policy focuses
predominantly on the recognition, treatment/timely referral of acute
respiratory infections i.e. pneumonia, bronchiolitis and other chest
infections (all called herein 'pneumonia'). Following the standard WHO
protocols, it has been shown that respiratory rate and the recognition of
chest indrawing are the most critical and sensitive indicators of pneumonia.
7.        For children under 2 months of age with pneumonia indicated by
fast breathing only, and for children aged 2 months - 5 years with fast
breathing, chest indrawing or other signs of severe pneumonia/very severe
disease, referral to a clinical facility where diagnosis and treatment can be
overseen by a trained imedical officer, is considered essential. These cases
will be admitted and receive pt .nteral antibiotics and, where necessary,
oxygen and intravenous therapy.
8.         Treatment of uncomplicated pneumonia will be based on the use of
the broad spectrum antibiotic, cotrimoxazole, which has been shown to be
effective against common bacterial pathogens present in Indian children.
Twice daily regimen for five days is recommended for treatment of pneumonia.
9.          Standard training material for each level of the health care
system i.e. hospitals with admission facilities, primary health centers,
sub-centers and the community will be developed to guide and standardize
diagnosis, treatment and criteria for referral.
Objectives and Strategies,
10.         The main objective of the ARI control program is to reduce deaths
due to pneumonia in children under five years of age. Applying the standards
for case management is the main strategy for reducing mortality.
11.         In India, most bacterial pneumonia in children is susceptible to
the broad spectrum antibiotic, cotrimoxazole. An important element in the
strategy is the selective use of antibiotics so that limited bacterial
resistance occurs from the treatment. Limiting the use of antimicrobial drugs
to only those children who need them will have numerous health and economic
benefits. At this time, ear infections, streptococcal sore throat and
sinusitis are not included in the ARI strategy for village-level health
workers, and future strategies will deal with them.
12.         ARI control programs are to be integrated within the Primary
Health Care system and close linkages will be emphasized with other health
programs such as EPI, CDD, Nutrition and MCH.
Diagnosis and Treatment of ARI Children
13.         Mothers and families.  Communication materials will assist mothers
and families to identify a rapid breathing rate, chest indrawing and inability



- lii -
ANNEX 15
Page 3
to feed as signs of respiratory illness. Imuediate referral to the nearest
health care provider is indicated.
14.         Health Care Providers (all levels).  The basic criterion for a
diagnosis of pneumonia is the respiratory rate, carefully counted in a resting
child over a full minute. The respiratory rates for a pneumonia diagnosis are
60 or more per minute for infants from 0-2 months, and immediate referral by
paramedical workers; 50 or more per minute for children 2-12 months of age,
with referral if there are signs of chest indrawing, and if no signs of
respiratory distress, treatment with cotrimoxazole, 2 tablets twice daily for
S days; and 40 or more per minute for children 1-5 years of age, and if no
chest indrawing, treatment wtith cotrimoxazole, 3 tablets twice daily for 5
days. In addition fever control and advice on fluids, feeding and home cough
remedies will be given. The new policy discourages the routine use of
antimicrobials, cough syrups containing ephedrine, codeine, atropine, or
alcohol.
15.         Medical Doctors.  Doctors are to be trained to assess rapid
respiratory rate, chest indrawing and inability to drink as more practical and
reliable to diagnose pneumonia than the traditional practices of listening
with a stethoscope, blood or sputum count, or X-ray. Doctors will also judge
the severity of the illness and appropriate treatment by evaluating other
signs such as whether the child stopped eating; child too sleepy to wake;
sharp and loud breathing noises (stridor) even when the child is calm;
wheezing; convulsions; severe undernutrition and the like. Infants and
children with these signs generally will be referred for hospital admission.
In addition to antibiotics, treatment may include round the clock nursing,
intravenous drugs, laboratory and radiological investigations.
Program Implementation Strategy
16.         A medical college is assigned to work with district health
authorities to plan. train, monitor, and evaluate the programs. The district
plans include training of all doctors and female health workers, provision of
instructional materials and the supply of necessary antibiotics (pediatric
cotrimoxazole). Trai.ing will be provided at me,iical schools, district or
taluka hospitals, and selected CHCs/PHCs by members of the District Training
Teams. Other implementation strategies include:
(a)   trained MCH staff will conduct orientation sessions at the sub-
center level to train health guides, community leaders, etc;
(b)   community-based workers will meet mothers in the village through
anganwadi workers and mahila mandals to explain practices and
indications for referral;
(c)   ARI control efforts will be linked closely with immunization
outreach activities, promotion of breast feeding, growth
monitoring and ORT for diarrhoea/management;
(d)   an integrated structure reaching from village workers to district
level officers in.:luding hospital staff and private practitioners;
and



- 112 -
ANNEX 15
Page 4
(e)   the utilization of existing staff and facilities.
17.         The strategy is expecGed to result in successful early detection
and treatment of pneumonia at the peripheral level, reduction of unnecessary use
of many antimicrobials and useless or harmful commercial co1.sgh medicines, and
savings from fewer hospital admissions.
18.         Indicative Management Protocols:
THE YOUNG INFANT (AGE LESS THAN 2 MONTHS)
- Stopped feeding well,
- Convulsions,
- Abnormally sleepy or difficult
Signs:             to wake,
- Stridor in calm infant,
- Vheesing in calm infant,
- Fever or low body temperature.
Classify As:       VERY SEVERE DISEASE
Treatment:        Refer URGENTLY to hospital.
Give first dose antibiotic.
- Fast breathing                        - No fast breathing (less
Signs:             (60 per minute or MORE) and or          than 60 per mintxte) and
- Severe chest indrawing                - No severe chest indrawing
Classify Ass       SEVERE PNEUMONIA                        NO PNEUMONIA
- Refer URGENTLY to hospltal            - Advise mother to give home
for antibiotic by injection.           caret
- Give first dose of antibiotic            - Keep baby warm.
(if referral is not feasible            - Breast feed frequently.
treat with antibiotic and                - Clear nose, if it
follow closely.)                           interferes with feeding
Treatments
- Keep the young infant warm            - Advise the mother to
during transfer.                        return if:
- Illness worsens.
- Breast feed frequently young             - Breathing is difficult.
infant during transfer.                  - Feeding becomes a
Problem



- 113 -                        ANNEX 15
Page 5
THE CHILD (AGE 2 MONTHS UP TO 5 YEARS)
- Not able to drink,
Signs:           - Convulsions,
- Abnormally sleepy or
difficult to wake,
- Stridor in clam child,
- Wheezing in calm child,
- Severe undernutrition.
Classify As:       VERY SEVERE DISEASE
- Refer URGENTLY to hospital
- Give first dose antibiotic
- Treat fever, if present
- No chest indrawing   - No chest indrawing,
Signs:           - Chest indrawing         and                     and
- Fast breathing.       - No fast breathing.
(50 per minute or       (Less than 50 per
more)                   minute)
Classify As:       SEVERE PNEUMONIA        PNEUMONIA               NO PNEUMONIA:
COUGH OR COLD
-Refer URGENTLY to    - Advise mother to        - If coughing more
hospital.               give home care.         than 30 days, refer
- Give first dose of   - Give antibiotic          for assessment.
antibiotic            - Treat fever, if       - Assess and treat
- Treat fever, if         present.                other problems.
present (If referral - Advise mother to       - Advise mother to
Treatment:         is not feasible,        return with child       give home care.
treat with antibiotic  in 2 days for          - Treat fever if
and follow closely).   reassessment, or         present.
earlier if the
child is getting
worse.
Reassess in 2 days a child who is taking an antibiotic for Pneumonia:
WORSE                   THE SAME                 InPROVING
Signs:           - Not able to drink.                            - Breathing slower.
- Has chest indrawing.                          - Lese fever.
- Has other danger                              - Eating better.
signs.
Treatments       - Refer URGENTLY to    - Review antibiotic    - Finish 5 days of
hospital                or refer                antibiotic



ANNEX 16
- 114 -                           Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Social Marketing Of Contraceptives
A. Social Marketing Of Condoms (Nirodh)
1.        In order to promote the use of contraceptives, a Social Marketing
Program was launched in 1968 with the participation of 12 Consumer Goods,
Pharmaceutical and Oil Companies both in the public and private sector. A
list of these companies is shown in Table 1. Specific geographic areas were
earmarked for each Company and the product was available through the over
300,000 outlets of these Companies in rural and urban areas. In addition, the
Government also took the following steps to increase the availability of
condoms:
(a) an advertising campaign to create demand was launched. This includ-
ed advertisements through newspapers, journals, TV, Radio, short
films, jingles, cinema slides, hoarding, wall painting and point of
sale materials;
(b) special sales promotion measures like supply of commercial Nirodh in
1/2 gross PWC jars which has the advantage of the open display of
the product at the retail counter and also serve as a bonus for the
retailers who retained the jar, were introduced;
(c) assistance was made available    the 12 Marketing Companies for
arranging display contests as w,1l1 as participation in important
melas and fairs;
(d) the services of Operation R6search Group, (ORG) Baroda was utilized
to carry out family planning sur -ys in 1970 and 1980 to assess the
success of the program as well a.. "o provide monthly data on retail
off-take of condoms of all brands, including Nirodh;
(e) on the basis of findings of the st.rvy carried out by ORG in 1980, a
scheme to pay one paise per piece :oid for and to be used for demand
generation activities was sanctioned to the Marketing Companies in
December, 1983. This scheme was made available to the Companies who
had sold more than 10 million pieces;
(f) initially only dry condoms under the generic name Nirodh were
introduced in the program. However, based on the monthly feed back
received from ORG in regard to choice, lubricated condoms under the
brand name Deluxe Nirodh were introduced in the programme n July,
1984 and were priced at Rs. 11- for a pack of 5 pcs.; and
(g) in the initial stages the price to the consumer was fixed at 15
paise for a pack of 3 pcs. However, this was revised to 25 paise
for three pieces in 1974.



- 115 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2
Sales
2.        Sales under the Social Marketing Program increased from 15.74
million pieces in 1968-69 to 162 milli.jn pieces in 1982-83. However, it
remained stagnant around 200 million pieces during 1983-84 and 1984-85 iaspite
of introducing Deluxe Nirodh as well as assistance to the Marketing Companies
for demand generation. In order to overcome this bottleneck a series of
meetings were held with the result that
(a) the Companies involved in Social Marketing agreed to sell Nirodh as
one of their own products;
(b) the Nirodh publicity campaign which was mainly being carried out
through a Government agency would be carried out by the Companies in
their area of operation. The Government agency would provide
umbrella coverage through T.V., Radio and Cinema. The companies
would be provided assistance e 3 paise per piece sold with effect
from 1.8.1985 (instead of one paise per piece sold which was in
effect from 1.12.1983) for promotional activities. The Companies
were to contribute one paise per piece sold as their contribution to
the national endeavour; and
(c) the State Governments were asked to constitute Coordination
Committees with the representative of the Marketing Companies, State
Governments Officials and representatives of Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare to coordinate and review the progress of Social
Marketing Program in each States and remove the bottlenecks if any.
3.        As a result of this initiative the sales under the program picked up
considerably and increased over to 245 million pcs. in 1985-86. However, it
has again stagnated around 250 million pcs. In 1987, the participation of one
Company (Union Carbide) which covered about 40Z of the country and contributed
about 47Z of the total sale was withdrawn and involvement of additional
Companies/Voluntary Organizations was considered. Parivar Seva Sanstha (Marie
Stopes) a voluntary organization in the field of Family Welfare joined the
Government in this effort and took up a project of selling Condoms under the
brand name 'SAWAN' and 'BLISS' in Haryana with assistance from Ford
Foundation. Similarly, Population Services Interiatcional (India), a non-
profit Society registered under the Societies Act and funded by its associates
PSI (Washington) took up selling of Nirodh in the States of Punjab, Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Union Territory of Chandigarh under
the brand name 'MASTI'in 25 districts of Uttar Pradesh. These two
organirations have been allowed to extend the sale of branded Condoms in
Punjab and Haryana by Parivar Seva Sanstha and in remaining districts of Uttar
Pradesh ind the Union Territory of Delhi by Population Services International.
4.        During 1987, a third product which is thinner, lubricated as well as
colored and produced by Hindustan Latex Ltd. at its two new plants were
introduced in the program under the brand name 'Super Deluxe Nirodh'. This
was priced at Rs. 2/- for a pack of 4 pcs.



- 116 -
ANNEX 16
Page 3
Procurement
5.        No procurement of condoms would be financed undcr the project.
Supplies of Condoms are normally procured from indigenous sources unless there
are special circumstances such as labor problems or establishing buffer stocks
for maintaining uninterrupted supplies both under the Social Marketlng Program
as well as Free Supply Scheme. In India three companies are manufacturing
condoms with an installed capacity of 1033 million pcs. These are:
(Million Pcs.)
(a) Hindustan Latex Ltd., Trivandrum.               608.00
(A Public Sector undertaking of Govt.
of India).
(b) LORCOM (Protective), Aurangabad.                200.00
(A Joint venture of LRC and Govt.
of Maharashtra)
[c) London Rubber Companies, Madras                 225.00
(A private Company of TTK Group).
6.        Nearly all the production of Hindustan Latex Ltd. and LORCOM is
being procured by the MOHFW for distribution under both the Free and Social
Marketing Program. London Rubb.r Company which has an installed capacity of
225 million pcs. is selling about 75 milllon pcs. in the market under its own
brand name r.nd the balance of 150 million pcs. are being procured by the
MOHFW.
7.        Supplies under the Social Marketing Program are procured through
these Companies on the basis of Rate Contracts finalized by DTE. General of
Supplies and Disposal (DGS+D) on yearly basis. Supplles from these manufac-
turing Companies are brought to the Medical Store Depots at Bombay, Calcutta,
Madras and Family Welfare Depot, New Delhi and from these depots, the supplies
are made available to the Marketing Companies on demand. The supplies are
sent to the godowns of the Marketing Companies on a freight paid basis.
Price Structure Under Social Marketlng
8.        The price structure under Social Marketing for various brands is as
glven below:
Sale Price to            Normal        Deluxe        SuRer Deluxe
(3 pcs.)       (5 pci.)          (4 pci.)
(i) Marketing Companies      Rs. 0.19 p.   Rs. 0.67 p.    Rs. 1.34 p.
(it) Rel.ailers               Rs. 0.24 p.   Rs. 0.80 p.    Rs. 1.60 p.
(iii) Consumers                Rs. 0.30 p.   Rs. 1.00         Rs. 2.00
Condoms are also being sold by the manufacturer especially London Rubber
Companies, Madras, under their own brand names.



- 117 -
ANNEX 16
Page 4
B. Social Marketing of Oral Pills
9.        The program of Social Marketing of Oral Pills was launched in
November, 1987. The ICMR had approved two types of contraceptive pills for
use under the National Family Planning Program. They are:
(a) Norothisterone Acetate           -      1.00 mg.
Ethinyl Estradiol                -      0.03 mg.
(b) DL-Norgestrel                    -      0.50 mg.
Ethinyl Estradiol                -      0.03 mg.
Both formulations of Oral Contraceptive Pills are being procured under the
brand name 'Mala'. To identify the different composition, it was decided to
put 'N' as a suffice for formulation with NEA and 'D' as suffix for
formulation with DL-Norgestrel. Mala-'N' is being provided under the Free
Distribution Program and Hala 'D' is being provided under the Social
Marketing. The package of the product consists of 28 tablets (21 of Oral Pill
and 7 Placebo).
10.       The program of Social Marketing of Mala 'D' is being carried out by
four Pharmaceutical Companies:
Name of Company                  Areas of Distribution
(i)  Dey's Medical                  West Bengal,.Orissa, Bihar, Assam
and other North Eastern States and
Union Territories.
(ii)  HOECHST                        Punjab. Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar
Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and
Kashmir and Union Territories of
Delhi and Chandigarh.
(iii)  Rallis India Ltd.              Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya
Pradesh, Goa and Union Territories
of Daman and Dieu and Dadra Nagar
Haveli.
(iv)  Warner Hindustan Ltd.          Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh,
Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry and LMA.
11.       The tabletting of Mala 'D' cycles is carried out by IDPL, Gurgaon
(Haryana) and M/s Eupharma, Bombay with the raw material DL-Norgestrel and
Ethinly Estradiol which is donated by UNFPA as commodity assistance.
12.       The Oral Pill is treated as an 'ethical' one and as is therefore
sold only on the prescription of a Registered Medical Practioner. To create
awareness among intended users and promote sales, a systematic media campaign
involving TV, '.adio and Press and Point of sale material has been launched.
In order to enlist the support of Medical Practitioners, Gynecologists and
members of Chemists organizations, national regional and State-Level seminars
are being arranged. One national, five regional and three State Level
Seminars have been arranged during 1987-88 and 1988-89. Voluntary



- 118 -
ANNEX 16
Page 5
Organizations working in the field of Health and Family Welfare are also
involved in the program and Parivar Seva Santha, New Delhi has already taken
up sale or Oral Contraceptive Pill under the brand name 'ECROZ' in Haryana.
Population Services International (PSI) is also planning to launch the sale of
Oral Pills under a brand name to be decided by them after market research.
Price Structure Under Social Marketing
13.       The Companies involved in Social Marketing are provided "Mala 'D'"
by the Ministry at Rs. 1/- per cycle and they make available the same to the
acceptors at Rs. 2/- per cycle. The commission suggested to the trade by
MOHFW is as follows:
Cost Per Cycle
(i)  Price to the disturbing          Rs. 1.00
Company
(ii)  Price to the Stockists           Rs. 1.40 p.
(iii)  Price to the Chemists            Rs. 1.60 p.
(iv)  Price to the acceptors           Rs. 2.00
Sales
14.       The four Companies are entrusted with the marketing and distribution
of Mala-D in Eastern, Northern, Western and Southern Zones respectively.
Although sales have been slow to pick up, after being promoted for about 20
months it now shows an increasing trend in all the zones except Southern Zone.
The sales during 1987-88 (November-March) and 1988-89 in the different Zones
were as follows:
Zone          Sales        1988-89      (Million cycles)
1987-88
(t)  Eastern     0.25         1.17
(ii)  Northern    0.24         1.06
(iii)  Western     0.17         0.53
(iv)  Southern    0.06         0.10
Total         0.72         2.86
15.       The distribution of contraceptives (Nirodh and Oral Pills) during
the last 10 years both under Free and Social Marketing is shown in Table 3.



- 119 -
ANNEX 16
Page 6
Table l List of Companies involved in Social
Marketing of (Nirodh) under the Family Welfare
Program and their area os operation
Sl.No.  Name of the                  Area of operation
Comp2any
1 .     Indian Tobacco               Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya
Company                      Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry, Uttar
Pradesh and Delhi.
2.      Hindustan Lever Ltd.         Assam, West Bengal, Manipur, Meghalaya,
Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Orissa.
3.      Brooke Bond (India)           Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa and Rajasthan.
Ltd.
4.      Tata Oil Mills Ltd.           Bihar.
5.      Smith Stanistreet            All India among Chemists.
Pharmaceutical Ltd.
6.      Indian Drugs and             All India among Chemists.
Pharmaceutical Ltd.
7.      Indian Oil Ltd.              All India through Petrol Pumps.
8.      Bharat Petroleum                          -do-
9.      Hindustan Petroleum Ltd.                  -do-
10.     Reliance Bulk Drugs           Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
and Pharmaceutical           Jammu and Kashmir and Union Territories
Ltd., Chandigarh.            of Chandigarh.
11.     Population Services           Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh,
International                Jam$u and Kashmir and Union Territories
New Delhi (PSI).             of Chandigarh.
12.     Parivar Seva Sanstha          Haryana.
(under brand name
'Sawan' and 'Bliss')
13.     Population Services           25 districts of Uttar Pradesh.
International,
Ncw Delhi, (under
brand name 'Mastl')



- 120 -
ANNEX 16
Page 7
Table 2s Statement Showing Sales under the Social
Marketing Program of Nirodh during 1984-89
(In million pc8.)
Sales under Social Marketing
Name of the CoMpany      1984-85      1985-86     1986-87      1987-88      1988-89
1.  I.T.C.               50.14        56.78       61.98        128.61       113.99
2.  Brooke Bond          13.67        17.76       12.92         13.15        13.63
3.  Hindustan Lever      14.40        20.49       28.36         24.05        15.91
4.  Tata Oil Mills        6.64        12.92        6.26         18.54        27.11
5.  I.D.P.L.             10.63         6.31        4.59         72.65        43.58
6.  Smith Stanistreet    7.32         16.09        4.92          2.78         1.63
7.  Oil Companies         0.70         0.46        0.61          0.52         0.21
(Bharat Petroleum,
H.P.C. and I.O.C.)
8.  Population Services   -             -           -             -          19.05
International
9.  Pariva!' Seva Sanstha  -            -           -            0.61         1.02
10. Reliance Bulk Drugs   -             -           -            5.02         0.20
11. Union Carbide        99.14        116.20      107.88          -            -
12. Others                0.54          0.89        0.24         0.15         0.03
Total:            203.18       247.90       227.76       266.08      236.36



- 121 -
ANNEX 16
Page 8
Table 3: Distribution of Contraceptives under the
Family Welfare Program in India
Years                  Condoms                                          Oral Pill
Free Distri-        Sale under  Sale of        Free Disti- Sale under  Sale of
bution Scheme.      Social       branded       bution       Social        branded
Marketing   Condoms                     Marketing   OCP
cycles.
(in million pcs.)                              (in lakh cycles)
1979-80      136.39           77.80       NA            10.66        -         NA
1980-81      137.43          129.50       NA            11.83        -         NA
1981-82      152.68          166.20       NA            15.60        -         NA
1982-83      174.17          162.67      77.66          23.80        -         NA
1983-84      279.57          198.30      73.05          94.70        -         NA
1984-85      336.05          202.55      73.39          98.00        -         NA
1985-86      376.45          247.47      63.90          97.63        -         NA
1986-87      435.72          227.76      51.88         136.63        -         NA
1987-88      482.18          266.06      71.00         166.27       7.53       NA
1988-89      636.72          236.68       NA           139.36    28.69         NA
Table 4: Plan for Phasing Out Free Distribution and Incrasing
Social Marketing Condoms and Oral Pill.
Years          Conventilonal Contrace;tive (Condoms)           Oral ContracePtive  (Pill)
FREE DISTRIBUTIUN     SOCIAL MARKETING     FREE DISTRIBUTION    SUCIAL MARKETING
miI IIons             (mlI Ions)               millons)           (millons)
Users   Number Shore  Usore   Number  Shoer   u" re  NuDr unere  Users  Number Shoro
1989-90    9.17   638.72   73X    9.86    286.68   27X    1.69   18.98   60e    0.60    9.24  40X
1990-91    9.1?   680.24   63x    5.88    868.76   87X    1.60   20.16   675    0.76    9.76  83X
1991-92    8.35   601.20   55X    6.76   486.00   45X    1.50   19.60   62X    0.90   11.70  38X
1992-9a    7.95   672.40   50X    7.96   672.40   s0o    1.26   16.26   50%    1.26   16.25  S0X
1993-94    7.60   640.00   46X    9.20   682.40   65X    1.26   16.26   46x    1.45   18.86  64X
1994-95    7.00   606.00   40X   10.60   768.00   60      1.10   14.80   40%    1.70   22.10  6OX
Total     39.97  2877.84         89.78   2860.64          6.65   86.45           0.05   78.66



- 122 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
bey Indicative Operational Comonents for Safe Motherhood
District/
Sub-Sietrict
Hospital                         ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS
Main                      Post-Partum
Referral                   Center:                    o Essential Obsteric capabilities to treat
Routo                     Phpcin                        complications, ha.morrhag., obstructed
Prmedical A                   labor, infection, texaseia
Support Staff               o Provide post partur A post MTP counsel-
ling & contraception
* Conduct aseptic d,iiveri.s
Reforral                                  o Support tetanus toxoid F.P.
Levol                                     o Provide supervision, supplies and
Selected CHCs/                logistic support to lower levels
Tal'ika                     o Plan, mnage, monitor S.M. Activities
Hospitals                 o Coordinate in-service training
(100,000 pop)              o Identification & tratment of
maternal morbidity causes
Physicians
Paramedical A
Support Staff
o Conduct A support aseptic deliveries
in their area
o Initial assistance and stabilization to
obeteric cases pending referral (PHC)
o Tretmnt of selected complications;
r*tained placenta, toxami a, anaeals
PHC                           (PHC)
(0,000 pop)                o Identification and tretment of selected
complications; mild toxasola, mild
Single Physician               Infection; referral of cases for
Paramedical A                  higher level care (S/C)
Support Staff                o Identification, referral of high
risk, antenta l cases (S/C)
o Provision of tetanus toxold A F.P.
o Councelling, nutrition, post pertum,
Sub Center                    post MTP
(6,000 pop)                o Supervision, logistic and supplies
support to lower levels
ANM                         o Plan, manage, monitor local SM
activities
o Provide on-the-job training
o Coordinate and support comunity
resource network e.*g, TBA, AWWs
o Provide guidance to famills
e.g., hom visiting, IEC
o Identification, monitoring, referral of
Village Levol:                high risk pregnant women
o Initial assistance and transportation
T3A  AW                       of obsteric cause
Health Guides               o Participatlon In basic planning,
Leaders,                      Implementatlon, monitoring of SM
Groups                        activities
Famillos                    o Create Informed and committed network
for village based care for SM Including
multisectoral Inputs
o Conduct aseptic deliveries
o Orientation and on-the-job training



tio             ,             ,sgjlS              ,i ,        ,t..                                                                     .X. 3 at'
3    i x         e3z sD.}            ;}}j|g U       
___I_______________________________________________________________,
t       3        S 
tu      |@        § e3c uu 5;8X3                             
l t -              -    -  - - -  - -    -  - - -  -    - -  - - -  -    - - -  - -    -  - -  - - -    -  - -  - - -    -  - -  - -    - -  - -  - -    - -  - -  -
El                                                                                                    1-3                                                                    I         la ae°5egs    
_ _                                                          _________________________________
5~~~~C    3.c-5ue                          .                                                   CO                                                   a33
m   ! Ug {  s  W W   e   {  5 t  3 *   " |   t        -   % S   c i    u "   ! w   u > w   8 c                 t ]         4                t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
-#i          i                          =ab3 Z: Se0I  Co                                                                                  4p .:  0od d5 da* J.de                          
,4     3     il, v' I     !        3    ie i#s 0Z 
0
, ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C                                             L                                                                                . O
0                                                                                                                    ag51g{0i 4tS        F   
_ _ _          _ _ _     _ _    _ _ _    _ _     _ _ _    _ _     _ _ _    _ _    _ _ _     _ _    _ _ _     _ _    _ _ _     _ _    _ _ _     _ _    _ _ _     _ _



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    
l                                                                                                                                                 :O
*          -----                --- ----------------------------------------------
:           a                                                                                  t I
.  I                                                                                                                     I
-   -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -   -    -   -    -   -    - -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -    ---j -             -
*§t,-,  e U   lit
|                      3           *Sji    .  sfld1                                                                                                          11
I~~~~ 



i                                                                                                                                        II I
I                                                                                                                                                                                  .                                                                                           Ia
*      r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -     II 
- -               -    -         - -            -    -         -         - -            -    -        - -            - ---                         -           -- - -           -    -         - -       -        - -            -    -- -- -
I                                                                                                                                        . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
I p
- -                -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         --- -                         -        -         -    -         -         -         -         - -           -         -         -



a                                                                                                                     -                                           I                                
*         I                                                                                                                           g P            ;WS ** INW| |                   |
- - - -     - - -     - - -    - - -    - - -     - - -    - - -     - - -    - - -    - - -     - - -    - - -    - - -     - - -    - - -     - - -    - - -
a                                                                                                                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
!                                                                                               t E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r RW1-e
71            1.     I
0
I~O                   F      A      U       ~              S      .,           Vg! ,   E                                F               C '~E Z      I         I
o~~~~~~~~                              r £.                        2                                of *                                              a         'XF|JiEXS       
-- -- -- -   -- -- _                        _ - - - -           -----                                                                -   -- i                             0
t~~~~~~ ;; 1!                                                         ft-g2a!    
, ~   ~        ~       ~~~ _S' .i _                                                                         __ __. 
-     - -     - -       - -     - -  - -      - -     - -        - -     - -       - -      - -    -  -   -0            
.                                           as *i.  .si . lat
ft
*                                                                                                                                  a        a~~~~~~~~T7v-anC
0.
1                                                                                                                  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*                                                                                                            S                 ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                                              CD?~'fl*-I
a                                                                                                                     I   5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
I                                                                     F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
a                                                                                             4             *           g                                         I-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



-- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -
-------------------------------------------__--------------_---_--*__
I. _              __---                          
i i' r 5 *^¢4 t 1 1S5 [S5 1 i~~~~~,    |
.                                                                                              .                                                         t~~~~~~~~t
A. d



I                    isi'2iXtz1li!~~~I                                                                                                          14|
i___-_- _---- -- -- --- -- -- --- ---- -----__                          _    _     _        --------_          ---------__           -       -_ _ _  _     _          _
- - - - - - -      - - - - - -      - - - - - -     - - - - - -      - - - - - -      - - - - - -     - - - - - -      - - - - - -      - --            - --      -      I
j                _--- -------------                                                                                                                              i
r    .  i  l   z  i - 1    !   1    s i  ;                                             1a 3 X 1pI
II- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
101,  13,  41~~~~~~~a                                                                                                                                S
I ___                   U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
* ~-~-                                            ..     I            .                 e~I                  .&' II
~~;A~~   ~                               :~~  ~~                 *~~~* ~~ fl1  dIr  ~~~~jt  r~~~ n:m.z
a  2                  ir~~~~~~~~~~~~g        ~          . 
- - - - - - -    - -    -4   - -    -    - -    - -    -  -   -    - -    - -    -  -   -    -  -   -  -   -  -    -   -  -   -  -    - -    -



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1I 
!----------------------------------i
I    j~~~~~~~-
lip'~~~~~~
-------,                       a     01 
'~~~~ ~ ~                            I
-----------~~---'Xa
!                   7 X           j | t |    |z~'gil
gj



- 130 -
ANNEX 17
Page 9
ZBEHIND THE TECHNICAL TERMS
General Notes on Main Direct Causes of Maternal Mortality
(References 'Preventing Maternal Deaths' WHO. Geneva 1989)
Obstructed Labor and Ruptured Uterus
1.          In most cases of obstructed labor, the problem arises because the
space in the bony birth canal of the mother is either too small or too
distorted to permit easy passage of the head of the baby during labor. If
well fed, most women attain their genetically determined maximum stature at
about 18 years with growth of bony pelvis ceasing 3 years later. With poor
nutrition, environmental hygiene, and diseases like malaria, diarrhoea and
measles, growth in stature will be slow, often causing stunting. There is
also a bone disease (osteomalacia) affecting pelvic size (once common among
the poor in large industrial European cities).
2.          Without early treatment, obstructed labor can last for days and
may result in maternal death from infection, exhaustion and death of the fetus
through infection, birth injury, and lack of oxygen. Antibiotics are needed
within 12 hours of membranes rupturing, and after 12 hours for all women
remaining undelivered. Infection may also be the result of traditional local
treatment for prolonged labor, such as putting herbs or other substances into
the vagina. Ruptured uterus is rare among women giving birth for the first
time, but common among women who have borne several children. Once the uterus
ruptures, the woman experiences severe abdomiral pain and tenderness, heavy
bleeding from torn vessels of the uterus and death follows within 24 hours
from hemorrhage and shock. Emergency caesarian section, assisted vaginal
vacuum extraction or forceps delivery are required to treat obstructed labor
and ruptured uterus.
Hemorrhage
3.          There are two main types of hemorrhage: Bleeding which occurs
vaginally before the baby is born (ante-partum hemorrhage) and bleeding which
begins shortly after the birth of the baby (post partum hemorrhage).
4.          Bleeding during pregnancy is always abnormal.  When it occurs
before the 28th week of pregnancy, it is abnormal and is likely to be
associated with abortion. Bleeding after the 28th week of pregnancy may be
due to premature separation of the placenta which is attached to the inside of
uterus and provides the growing fetus with blood and nutrients. Women over 35
years, and with four or more previous births, are commonly affected. The
primary objective of the treatment is to improve woman's general health status
by giving blood transfusion, pain-relieving drugs and supportive measures.
Without treatment the woman will die of blood loss and shock, along with the
baby. Another cause of antepartum hemorrhage is 'placenta previa.' This
means that the placenta lies in an abnormal position innide the uterus, i.e.
blocking the birth canal opening. Bleeding may be slight and painless. The
aim of the treatment is to prolong pregnancy until a mature haby can be born.
Blood transfusion may be necessary and delivery of baby around the 38th week
of pregnancy, not the usual 40th week. Ectopic pregnancy outside the uterus
e.g. in Fallopian tube also causes hemorrhage before the 10th week. If



- 131 -
ANNEX 17
Page 10
untreated, this condition can be fatal in a matter of hours as the tube
ruptures producing pain, shock and bleeding into the abdomen.
5.          Postpartum hemorrhage occurs when excessive bleeding occurs
through the birth canal after the birth of the baby. Normally the placenta is
expelled within 30 minute after birth of baby, and uterine contractions
continue so that bleeding stops. If sections of placenta remain in the uterus
they cause bleeding. An unduly prolonged labor, injuries sustained during
childbirth, rupture of uterus and tears in birth canal can also cause
hemorrhage. The risk of dying from hemorrhage depends on the amount and rate
of blood loss and state of health of the woman. A woman with antepartum
hemorrhage is estimated to have around 12 hours to live unless she receives
treatment, and a woman with postpartum hemorrhage only 2 hours. Hemorrhage is
the biggest single cause of maternal deaths in many developing countries.
Hypertensive Disease of Pregnancy
6.          During the second half of pregnancy, especially during a first
pregnancy, a woman may develop a hypertensive disease. In pre-eclampsia the
blood pressure rises, protein appears in the urine and there is swelling of
tissues, especially of the legs. In some cases this disease remains mild
throughout pregnancy. In others it becomes severe with high blood pressure,
headache, vomiting, disturbance of vision and abdominal pain. In the last
stages (eclampsia) convulsions occur, and if untreated the woman dies of
heart, liver and kidney failure or brain hemorrhage. In tropical Africa the
disease can progress rapidly from first signs to eclampsia within 24 hours,
although average time may be 2 days. Pre-eclampsia is rare in second and
subsequent pregnancies, except with very overweight women, diabetics, a
particular type of blood pressure condition, or in cases of multiple births.
Very young women and women over 35 with first pregnancies are vulnerable. The
cause of pre-eclampsia is unknown. Treatment is symptomatic. Bed rest and
drugs that lower blood pressure are prescribed. Labor and delivery may be
induced around 37 weeks or a Caesarian delivery performed. When eclampsia has
developed, prompt treatment is required. The disease causes a minimum 5?
death rate. Treatment aims at controlling convulsions, lowering blood
pressure, and rapid delivery, with Caesarian if not delivered within 6 hours,
if the mother is to have a chance of survival.  Treatment cortinues after
delivery. To reduce maternal mortality, effective prenatal care and early
detection of women with signs of toxaemia are necessary.
Infection
7.          Women are particularly prone to infection following delivery and
abortion. The placental site or retained placental fragments in the uterus
may become infected. An unhygienic environment, dirty hands, instruments of
birth attendants, or insertion of herbs, leaves, and oils into the vagina
during labor, can also cause infection.
8.          After a normal delivery, infection is rare, irrespective of
hygienic surroundings, if nothing is introduced into the vagina. However,
many women in the Third World do not have straightforward deliveries and are
subject to harmful interference during labor through untrained birth
attendants. As a result, infection (puerperal sepsis) is one of the three



- 132 -                         ANNEX 17
Page 11
main causes of death in developing countries, and particularly high where
there are high rates of illegal abortion.
9.          When it starts, infection is generally confined to the uterus,
with abdominal pain, tenderness, vaginal discharge and fever. If untreated,
infection can be fatal within 6 days as infection spreads to other sites, such
as the fallopian tubes, pelvis, and eventually into the blood stream, causing
abscesses in the brain, muscles and kidneys. Treatment is straightforward in
early cases (such as rest, balanced diet, pain-relieving drugs and
antibiotics). In advanced disease, it is more complicated. Germs that cause
infection are also becoming increasingly resistant to antibiotics, largely as
a result of indiscriminate use of antibiotics. Improvements in personal and
environmental hygiene from home to hospital are important in infection
control.



- 133 -                      ANNEX 18
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Work Routines for Field Workers
Introduction
1.          Multi-Purpose Health Workers (MPHWs) have 47 tasks in their job
descriptions. There is a consensus that they cannot perform all these tasks
for all of the clients needing a service of some kind in a population of 5,000
people. Therefore, under the proposed project, an effort will be made to
systematize the work of field workers so that (a) they concentrate on those
tasks which will have most impact on reducing mortality; (b) tasks are divided
between village level workers so as to make them most productive; and (c)
workers concentrate most of their time on those clients who are most in need
of services. The Universal Immunization Program Plus/Safe Motherhood (UIP
Plus/SM) package to be emphasized under the project already consists of those
interventions which will have most impact on the death rate. This annex sets
out the principles to be applied under the project with regard to items (b)
and (c) above, i.e., task assignments between different village level workers
and prioritization of clients.
Task Assignment
2.          Because of her 18 month training, and because of her special
access to women as a woman, the MPHW Female (MPHWF) is the best qualified
worker at the village level to deliver MCH/FP services. But to increase her
outreach, she must make maximum use of the four other health workers availabile
at the village level in many parts of the country, i.e., the MPHW Male
(MPHWM), the TBA, the VHG and the anganwadi worker (AWW).   The table below
shows how, under the proposed project, tasks would be distributed among the
para-medical workers at the village level so as to make maximum use of the
comparative advantage of each.
Tasks at Village Level for UIP Plus
and Safe Motherhood Proaramme
TASK                       UPWF       IPWM       TBA      VHG       AWW
A. General
Enumeration
-Pregnant and             Yes        Yeo        -        -        Yes
lactating women,
Infants,
children 1 - 6 years.
Registration - Births         Yes        -          Assist   Assist   Yes
Registration - Deaths
Infant deaths
Child deaths (1-8 A 8-B)  Yes        Yes        Assist   -        Yes
Sti I I births
Support mothers' and
Inmluncers' "tings          Yoa        Yes         Yes     Ye       Yes



- 134 -
ANNEX 18
Page 2
TASK                             MPWF          MPWM         T8A        VHA
B. Child Survival
Now born care
-Cerd care                      -            -             Yes        -          -
-Identification of LB0          -            -             Yes        -
-Management (no both,
feedtng, warmth)               Yos          -             Yes        -          Yos
-Exclusive breast-feeding       Yos          -             Yes        -          Ye.
Detection of at risk
under fives                    -            -            Assist    Assist    Yos
Imunization
-Enumeration of eligibloo       Yes          Yos           -          -          Yes
-Motivation                     Yos          Yos           Ys        Ys         You
-Conduct a session              Yes          Yes           -          -         Assist
-Collect *ligibles on the
day of session                 -            -             Yos       Ys          Yes
-Follow up of drop-outs/
left outs                     Yes           Yoe          -          -          Yeb
-Follow up after
session and referral           -            -             Yes        You        Yes
If nod be
-Maintain records
and report                     Yes          Yes           -          -         Assist
-Surveillance (watch out
for outbreaks of NNT,
measles and polio)             Yes          Yes           Assist    Assist    Assist
Diarrhea control
-Home management                Ys           Yes           Yes       Yes         Yes
(train mothers and
care-givers on
fluids, assess child for
dehydration advise mothers
on feeding/reast-mi k)
-Assessment of the child        Yes          Yes           Yes        Yes        Y
-Advise mother/care-giver
on management at home          Yes          Yes          Ye         Yes        Yes
Distribute ORS (1 packet)       Yes          Yoe          Ys         Yes        Yes
-Depot-holder                   Yes          Yes           Yes       Yes        Yes
-Referral                       Ys           Yes           Yes        Yes        Yes
Acute respiratory Infection control
-Assessment of the child        Yes          Yos           Assist    Yes         Yes
-Education on home remedy
feeding, fluids etc.           Yes          You           Assist    Yes         Yes
-Referral                       Yes          Yes           Assist    Yes         Yos
-Follow up                      Yes          Yes           Assist    Yes         Yes
Vitamin A deficioney control
-Nutrition education            Yes          Yoe           Assist    Assist    Yes
-Early detection of def.        Yes          Yes           -          Assist    Yes
-Follow-up after lot contact
with MO for treatment          Yes          Yos           -          Assist    Yes
-Distribution of Vit. A mega
doses to 9a to 8 years         Yes          Yes           -          Yes        Yes
-Maintain record on above       Yes          Yes           -          Assist    Yes
C. Safe Motherhood
Ante-natal checks
-Identification of pregnancy   -             -             Yos        -          Yes
-ANC exam                       Yes          -             Assist    -           Assist
-Identification/referral of
obstetric complications        Yes          -             Assist    -           Assist



- 135 -
ANNEX 18
Page _
TASK                       UPWF       MPWM       TDA     VHO       AWw
Anasmia Control
-Identify/referral
of severe cases          Yos        Ye         Assist   -       Ye
-Nutrition educatlon     Yes        Ye         Assist   Assist   Yes
-Distribution of IFA      Yes       Y          Yes      -        Ys
-Follow up                Yes       Yes        Assist   -        Y
Delivery
-Encourage Institutional
deliveries whore
infrastructure oxists    Yes       Yes        Yes      Yes      Yes
-Assist with institutional
delivery                 Yes        _          Ye      _
-Assist at home delivery  -         -          yes      -
Birth spacing
-Education/motivation    Yos        Ys         Assist   Yes      Ys
-Resupply of contraceptives  Yes    Yes        -        Yos      Yes
3.          Of the tasks assigned to trained TBAs, two are of particular
importance. First, the TBA will have a key role in the early identification
of pregnancies, because, as a local woman, she will know about these before
the MPHWF. She is therefore the key to the early provision of ante-natal
care, which is critical to the 'cycle of care' approach to be adopted under
the project (Para 6). Second, she will have a key role in the identification
through weighing of low birth weight babies and in new born care, because in
the cultural context of much of India she will have access to the mother in
the first days after birth where the MPHWF, as a relative outsider, may not.
4.          AWWs are now stationed in almost half of all Indian villages with
over 1,000 population. Because they are women, because they are from the
local area, and because they are at a ratio of 1:1,000 people, they are a
tremendous potential resource for MCH care. In ICDS blocks, it is anticipated
that, in addition to sharing many other responsibilities, AWW will take over
the tasks of IFA and Vitamin A distribution at immunization/MCH sessions, thus
freeing MPHWs to give more time to tasks that orly they have been trained to
do.
Prioritization of Clients
5.          Under the project, it is proposed that workers will concentrate
their attention on pregnant and lactating women, and children with particular
health problems. Beginning regular preventive care during pregnancy is
important because good ante-natal care is (a) the key preventive health
measure for obstetrical complications and (b) of key importance for the
subsequent health of the child in view of the links between maternal health
and nutrition education/maternal weight gain during pregnancy and babies'
birth weights/adequacy of child care in the home. Continuing intensive care
through at least the first six months of lactation is important, because most
infant deaths are either neo-natal or linked with early malnutrition and/or
infection around the time of weaning; this is also a key period for education
on birth spacing.
6.          The intention is therefore to institute a 'cycle of care'
approach, in which the health worker intervenes early in the reproductive



- 136 -
ANNEX 18
Page 4
cycle with necessary information on MCH/FP and identification of women with
actual or potential obstetric complications, rather than later in the cycle at
the time of a difficult birth, or once an LBW infant's health has
deteriorated. Ideally, the cycle of care should begin with education of the
adolescent girl, but it is not yet clear how this can be managed given the
large numbers involved. Therefore, under the project, operations research
will be carried out on how to incorporate' the adolescent girl into the cycle
of care; this will be initiated in ICDS blocks, because of the availability of
additional field workers there. (Annex 30)
7.          Under the proposed project, States will be asked to ensure that
village level workers spend a specified amount of their time each month on (a)
immunization/MCH sessions; (b) home visits focused on pregnant and lactating
women (PLWs), low birth weight infants and children with special health
problems: and (c) ante-natal care/MCH clinics at Sub-Centers. It will be up
to each State or district to decide how this work is scheduled, providing that
(a) schedules allow for priority clients to be visited by MPHWF or AW once a
month; (b) schedules are regular and hence predictable; and (c) schedules are
made known well in advance to both clients and supervisors. As noted below,
these priority MCH activities will absorb only part of the worker's time each
month; States and districts will decide how the remainder of workers' time
will be used, according to local priorities.
8.          Immunization/MCH sessions.   Advantage will be taken of the access
to mothers and children at the monthly immunization sessions already held
throughout the country to also deliver other UIP Plus services, such as IFA
and Vitamin A, and to provide education on the whole range of UIP Plus/SM home
care and services. Immunization sessions will therefore become village
-mmunization/MCH sessions. For a typical MPHW, this activity may take about
five days a month, assuming a monthly session in each of four villages of over
a thousand population, and quarterly sessions in each of three subsidiary
villages. These sessions will be carried out on a specified day of the week,
so that this becomes known to the public.
9.          Home Visits.  MCH sessions will need to be complemented by a
regular program of home visits to priority clients, for two reasons. First,
some program interventions are too lengthy or too intimate to be carried out
at public clinics; examples are initial ANC examinations, or family planning
education. Second, some priority clients will not come to the MCH sessions;
examples are mothers with LBW/malnourished but apparently healthy babies, and
very poor mothers who cannot take time from work, even though their families
may be at high health risk.
10.          It is proposed that health workers should make the provision of
full coverage ante- and post-natal care for pregnant and lactating women and
children a particular priority for their home visit time. The time
implications of the above approach are manageable. On average, there will be
about 150 PLWs in an MPHW's area. Of these, 10-12 will be newly identified
pregnancies in a given month, who need a lengthy ANC exam/education session.
These cases, plus visits to children with particular health problems, might
together take three days a month. The remaining PLWs should need no more than
a 'look-in' visit each month; this might take an additional six days a month



- 137 -
ANNEX 18
Page 5
(140 women x 10 minutes = 23 hours, and assuming that four hours work can be
done on a home visit day, the rest going on travel).   As the program
progresses, and mothers increasingly come to HSC ANC/MCH clinics (see below),
the home visit time spent on ante-natal care by ANM8 will decline.
11.         The feasibility of concentrating home visit time on newly pregnant
women and children under three with particular health problems, depends on
other village health workers--TBAs, VHGs and AWWs--identifying these women and
children before the MPHWF's visit, and being present to brief her on her
arrival. MPHWFs cannot take the time to go house to house looking for child
illness cases.
12.         ANC/MCH Clinics.  MPHWFs cannot complete ANC examinations of newly
pregnant women in the field, since these require a urine test. Therefore,
MPHWFs will hold an ANC clinic for two to three hours once a week at the HSC
to deal with these cases. As with immunization sessions, the opportunity will
be taken to offer the full range of MCH/FP services and, like immunization/MCH
sessions, ANC/MCH clinics will be held on a particular day of the week.
13.         Other priorities.  The time taken by the routines outlined above
will be about 16 days a month, counting immunization/MCH sessions, home visits
and ANC/MCH clinics. Assuming that workers have 25 working days a month of
which five are required for attending meetings, record maintenance, taking FP
cases to the PHC etc., this leaves approximately four days a month for other
direct service provision, IEC or community mobilization activities.
Priorities for the use of this time may be set by States and districts, but it
will be preferable if they could be set by local workers and their
communities, on the basis of perceived local needs. Likely priority uses for
remaining worker time will be HSC clinics for curative care cases; visits to
other high risk families (e.g. poor mothers not coming for services); group
IEC meetings for clients and influencers; and individual IEC sessions for
resistant clients. A sample monthly work plan for a typical MPHWF is given
below.
Sample Monthly MPHWF Work Plan
________  N         ~~~~~T       W          TH           F            $
Wek 1   PHC Meeting   Immunization/  Home-visit  Home-visit   Antenatal/  Sectoral
MCH Session   B Villoag   C Village    MCH Clinic   Meeting
(MCHI)-----
A Village                            Home visit
_Base Village
Week 2    Open         MCH/IS        HV-        Open       ANC/MCH
B Village    Subsidiary              Clinic
Village-- ---
Week 8   Maintenance   MCH/IS       HV-          HV-       ANC/MCH     Sectoral
Records    C Villasg      B Villge   C Villea  Clinic      Moetino
Report
Week 4   Mothors       MCH/IS       Open         HV        ANC/MCH
Meeting     Subsidiary               Subsidiary    Clinic
VIlIlags                Village      ------
NV-Base



- 138 -
ANNEX 18
Page 6
14.         Changing the cpaign approach to family planning.  Currently,
family planning work is mainly undertaken on a seasonal, campaign basis
between January and March each year. The pressure on workers to meet their
family planning targets by the end of March--the end of the performance year--
is a major factor behind this seasonal drive. While it makes sense for
sterilizations to take place during the cooler months when the risks of
infection are least, motivational and birth spacing work should take place
throughout the year, integrated with MCH service provision. Preoccupation
with family planning work during the winter months should not be allowed to
interfere with the proposed routine home visit round to pregnant and lactating
women. It will therefore be essential for States and districts participating
in the proposed project to refrain from pressuring workers to give priority to
family planning work at the expense of MCH work in the last quarter of the
year. Substantial field experience in India shows that integrated provision
of MCH/FP care does not threaten the achievement of FP targets; on the
contrary, mothers' confidence in health workers built up through the provision
of good MCH care actually facilitates the achievement C FP targets,
especially for the temporary methods.
Work Routines For Field Supervision
15.         The quality of service delivery and IEC work under the proposed
project will depend critically on the support and on the job training that
workers receive from supervisors. The quality of this support and training in
turn depends on supervisors' familiarity with what is happening in the field,
and the regularity of their contacts with field workers. States and districts
will develop their own work routines for field supervision. But States will
be asked to ensure that these meet the following minimum stav ards without
which quality control over the UIP+/SM program cannot be ensured. First, HAs
Male and Female should spend a minimum of eight working days a month in the
field, of which half should be working with an MPW at an immunization/MCH
session or ANC/MCH clinic, and half should be accompanying an MPHW on a home
visit day. Assuming six MPHWs per HA, this means each MPHW will receive
support and on the job training from a supervisor twice in six weeks--once at
a clinic, once on a home visit day.
16.         Second, each PHC and CHC MO and each district level officer should
spend a minimum of four days a month in the field working on the UIP Plus/SM
program. The number of required supervision visits is less than for HAs, to
take account of the realities of MOs' curative care work at the PHC/CHC, the
pressure of administrative work at the district level, and the
responsibilities of managers at both levels for health programs other than UIP
Plus/SM. But because the required number of visits is small, compliance can
be legitimately enforced. These routines mean that the average MPW should
receive a field visit from an MO at least once a month (assuming two MOs per
new PHC). Each CHC would receive a visit at least once in two months
(assuming 20 CHCs per district and three medically qualified supervisory
personnel available for field supervision at the district level). District
staff visiting a CHC should set aside a whole day per visit, so that they can
also visit one PHC and one HSC (a different one each time) in that CHC's area.



- 139                            ANNEX 19
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Information, Education and Comunication Strategy
A. Introduction
1.          The Government of India's (GOI) Seventh and draft Eighth Five-Year
Plans calls tor lE&C fectivities to contribute to: (a) improved child survival
through promotion of immunization, oral rehydration therapy (ORT) and other
child development services; (b) improvements in women's health by increased
acceptance of antenatal services, deliveries through trained personnel and
telescoping of fertility as far as possible ir women's twenties; and (c)
promoting the status of women with a view to empowering them as full partners
and decision makers in the family and the community.
2.          Promotion of women's health status within the family and
community, increased utilization of MCH services, particularly at the primary
level and, enhanced home care health management, are the cornerstones of the
GOI's MCH program strategy. The GOI has acknowledged, however, that serious
obstacles and barriers exist that constrain the realization of its national
MCH goals and program objectives. Lack of client knowledge of available
services, poor motivation to use services and misconceptions and
misinformation about the need for and use of services, remain obstacles to
generating and sustaining client demand. Negative perceptions about the
ability of available services to provide the level of care required, i.e.
range of MCH services, drugs, etc. remain constraints to the utilization of
government services and health compliance.
3.          On the service delivery or supply side, problems relate to a lack
of quality services, particularly at the village level, and poor health
functionary knowledge of maternal mortality health technology and ineffective
communication skills.
4.          The Family Welfare Department of the MOHFW is responsible for
family planning and maternal and child health services. Within this
Department, the Mass Education and Media, (MEM) division has primary
responsibility for formulating and implementing MOHFW IE&C programs. In
specific program areas, such as UIP and UIP Plus, the concerned section is the
UIP section which has an officer responsible for conceptualizing and
implementing UIP communication programs.
5.          IE&C is viewed by the MOHFW as an important tool in bringing about
the proposed transformation of the national MCH profile. However, the program
effectiveness of the MEM division has been weakened seriously, particularly at
the State and district levels, by workers' inability to plan and implement
IE&C programs that address and meet localized health issues and client needs.
Other issues, such as poor program integration and rapport among the various
levels, limited worker coordination and resource utilization between the
various mateL.aal and child health welfare, and family welfare programs also
constrain program impact. As a result, IE&C activities conducted by the MEM
division are failing to meet program impact expectations. This status-quo



- 140 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2
changes significantly however, within area projects developed with donor
support.
B. Profile of Donor Supported MCH/IE&C Interventions
6.          UNICEF is a major donor supporting GOI's MCH programs.  Following
successful implementation of a UIP communication program in collaboration with
the UIP section of the MOHFW, UNICEF is planning to make a significant
investment in IE&C for Safe Motherhood and Child Survival. Key elements of
its UIP/IE&C program have been: (a) strong linkage between the health service
and the IE&C program; (b) use of teams comprising Angandwadi workers, DWCRA
group leaders, ANM8, and Gramsavaks to conduct village drives; (c) use of
formative research to guide strategy design and message development
activities; (d) employment of the private sector to develop creative messages
and materials; and (e) use of action oriented messages to trigger desired
responses. In its 1991-1995 program, UNICEF proposes to assist the GOI in
developing an umbrella national communication strategy for all related
component areas under the Child Survival and Safe Motherhood project. A
specific communication strategy will be developed for birth spacing.
Communication activities would focus on: (a) creating and increasing awareness
that a significant portion of health problems can be prevented by proper home
management by people themselves; and (b) care available through service
delivery units. Existing institutions/organizations would be supported to
function as a network of wprimary health care resource centers' which would be
developed to disseminate and provide information on health care for people.
The UNICEF strategy also aims at supporting advocacy efforts to (a) make safe
motherhood a societal priority; (b) enhance the welfare and well being of the
child; anG (c) sustain, mobilize and expand governmental and non-governmental
organization efforts for the "package" of MCH services.
7.          USAID is in the final year of financing the IE&C Training Project
which began in 1987 in the States of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh
and Bihar. This project has four major components: (a) preparation of visit
schedules for health personnel at various levels; (b) continuous training of
district, PHC, sector and subcenter level staff; (c) qualitative improvement
in supervision; and 'd) introduction of systems for monitoring and evaluation.
Mid-project evaluation findings are that innovations and positive results have
been achieved in some pockets of the project districts. For example, fixed
health worker visit schedules have introduced some predictability about visits
of health functionaries. However, visit schedules have been affected by a
variety of manpower and other issues. In some districts, villages have become
more aware of the available services and this, in turn, has generated greater
demand. This project is being absorbed into other donor area projects and the
MOHFW plans over time to institute it on a national basis.
8.          UNFPA.  The Health and Family Welfare area Project being
implemented by UNFPA in the state of Rajasthan has a major IE&C component.
This project ends in 1994. The IE&C component supports the reorganization and
integration of the existing MEM Wing, State Health Education Bureau and other
Publicity/Health Education Cells of the Directorate of Medical Health and
Family Welfare into a single unit called the State Health Extension, IE&C
Bureau.



- 141 -
ANNEX 19
Page 3
9.          IDA. The Second Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition II and ICDS I
project are among those IDA sul'ported projects making valuable contributions
in the MCH/IE&C area. Both projects have adopted the social marketing process
to program design and implementation. Hallmarks of the social marketing
process are; (a) its emphasis on approaching the problem from the client's
perspective; (b) use of formative research and field testing; (c) employment
of professional agencies to assist in program implementationg and (d) use of a
mix of mass and interpersonal media. As part of GOI support to these
initiatives, the Department of Women and Child Development has recently added
a communication expert to the ICDS Directorate at the center. These projects
are operational in Tamil Nadu, Orissa, and Andhra Pradesh.
C. Aims and Oblectives
10.         The UIP section of the MOHFW vhich has been spearheading the UIP
IE&C program will also undertake the project's IE&C program in collaboration
with other MOHFW departments. The IE&C component of the project will directly
support three major MCH program goals. These are to:
-     Increase utilization of available MCH services;
*     Increase home care health management; and
*     Promote the safe motherhood in.ttiative.
General IE&C program objectives will be to:
Upgrade and increase key health functionary, knowledge of maternal and
child health technology and communication skills;
*     Generate and sustain client demand for specific health care including
ORT, attended deliveries, antenatal and postpartum services;
*     Develop integrated program supporting communication strategies and
activities for community outreach and demand generation;
*     Enhance community elucation by health functionaries through the use of a
mix of media approaches targeted at specific audience segments;
*     Advocate at national and -tate levels for the state motherhood
initiative; and
*     Increase program efficiency through the use of operations research and
ongoing monitoring and tracking exercises.
11.         The scope of component activities will be national, however,
specific program activities will be implemented in a phased manner in specific
districts within states. The emphasis will be on States in the Hindu belt.
(Refer to Annex 8: Phasing of Districts for VIP Plus and Safe Motherhood).
D. StrateRY
12.         The GOI views the Child Survival and Safe Motherhood project as a
functional program to operationalize key aspects of the MCH program. As such,
the underlying strategy will be to move away from standard approaches in
program design and implementation and use new processes wherever applicable.



- 142 -
ANNEX 19
Page 4
Thus, for program planners, the planning and implementation process that will
be used for the component is as important as the outcome of the activities.
13.         The HOHFW's strategy for the IE&C component is to build on the
IE&C experiences of the ICDS, TNINP I and UIP programs to put in place a new
approach to IE&C activities using existing infrastructure. In this approach,
the Center and States would have distinct program roles. For the Center, key
roles would be to develop an umbrella comnunication effort for UIP Plus and
Safe Motherhood activities, coordinate planning, manage the program and its
resources, and produce prototype materials for adaptation and use by the
states. The Center plans to use a systematic process to program planning
involving the private sector, key IE&C experts and institutions. The
operational model that would be followed is the UIP communication model.
14.         The States' role within the project would be to adopt key elements
of the national umbrella strategy and implement structured but localized IE&C
programs and activities in accordance with program plans worked out at the
central and state levels. Emphasis would be placed on giving states the
resources to develop flexible and innovative program activities. At the
district level, program implementors would be encouraged to shift their
program focus, within the framework of given campaigns and program activities,
away from awareness creation to action stimulation.
15.         The MEM views the role of IE&C within the project as a vital one.
The MEM's has introduced at the state level some new programs aimed at
decentralizing planning and materials development activities and shifting
program focus from attainment of numerical targets as a indicator of program
success and impact to, use of client-related behavioral change and compliance
targets. Key MEM staff within the projects also point to the need for
emphasis on providing information and education on services, as well as
training grassroots level functionaries and media personnel to impart accurate
messages. The MEM staff has proposed the use of women's groups, Mahila
Swasthya Sang, for village outreach; employ of private producers for
television and radio productions and the development of film spots using
famous film stars as key influentials.
E. Component Activities
16.         Key activities to be conducted under the project are: at the
Central level:
-     IE&C strategy development and program planning workshops
-     design of media campaigns
-     development of prototype materials for service givers and clients
at the State level:
-     formative and process research (community analyses and service level
inventories)
-     IE&C strategy development and program planning workshops
-     adaptation of prototype materials
-     multi-media, ongoing campaigns
-     select small-scale operations research activities
-     fnnovative community outreach and education activities



- 143 -
ANNEX 19
Page 5
INC Suunort to Safe Motherhood and VIP Initiatives: Activities Matrix
Program Goal A: Increase Utilization of MCH Services
Proposed      IEC Aims                Target          IEC Activities              Collaborative/
!Health                               Audiences                                    Responsible
Service                                                                           Agencies
Goals
SAFE          Behaviour Change                        a) Conduct literature       private sector
MOTHERHOOD                                            review/formative research  (subcontract)
on area specific
1.  Reduce   * delay age of           oparents        behaviours and attitudes.
incidences    marriage
of IM&MMH                              mothers-in-   b) Direct support to and
Idue to       * delay first           law             program integration with   MEM units
,obstetric    pregnancy                               state and district level   Department of
complica-                             Smothers         delay in age of marriage  Women and
tions         * avoid late                            campaigns, wherever         Child
pregnancy              *young           implemented under FW &      Development
adolesents     Women & Child Dev.lopment
* decrease family                       Programs
size                    males in
general         c) Production of
* promote birth-                        appropriate materials for  Private sector
spacing                *young men      client education.            in
Materials may include:      collaboration
* seek care from                        - 15-20 minute thematic    with MOHFW and
trained providers in                    film documentaries          other sectors
case of danger signs                    - kit containing factual
information, leaflets,
* recognise danger                      etc. re:
signs during
pregnancy and                          * available government
childhood                               services
* age of marriage related
programs and activities
* vldeo and audio
cassettes
* radio spota
* film spots/quickies
* story boards
* pictoral thematic
story-line booklets
* counselling cards



-144-                     ANNEX 19
Page 6
Proposed      IEC Aims                Target           IEC Activities               Collaborative/
Health                                Audiences                                     Responsible
Service                                                                             Agencies
Goals
Advocate for review    legislators    d) IEC campaign to             private sector
and enactment of age                    promote GOI review of age   (subcontract)
of marriage laws        parliamentar-  of marriage laws              in  collabor-
lane                                         tion with
MOHFW
2. Increase   a) Enhance and          TBAs             a) Upgrade TBA, ANM          MOHFW
health        increase TBA and ANM                     training curricula.
function-     knowledge and skills  ANNs               Develop enhanced
aries'        in providing timely                      couuunication training
knowledge &  and good antenatal       AWs              modules for
practice of  care including:                           functionaries.
safe          o TT injections         VHGs
delivery      * Iron folic acid                        b) Distribute existing       MOHFW
* Screening for                         safe motherhood & child
high-risk                               survival materials for
pregnancies,                            use by health
identifying and                         functionaries. e.g.
referring obstetric                     manuals.
complications that
can develop during                      c) Produce specific          MOHFW
labor or immediately                    training films for
after delivery in                       upgrading health
high-risk women                         technology knowledge of
service functionaries
b) Increase health
functionary
knowledge of safe                       d) Produce IEC materials    subcontract
delivery and good                       for placement in TBA kits  university /
birthing practices                      (13 languages)               private sector
e) Conduct formative
research and/or
literature review on
knowledge, attitudes



- 145 -ANN    19
Page 7
Proposed      TEC Aims                Target          IEC Activities              Collaborative/
Health                                Audiences                                    Responsible
Service                                                                           Agencies
Goals
3. Promote    * change behaviour      mothers         * Development of special   Private sector
breast-                                               packets/give-aways for       subcontract/
feeding and  * increase knowledge   mothers-in-       pregnant and lactating      MOHFW
improved      of pregnant and         law             women.  Packets may
lactation     lactating women of                      include
management    importance of           health          - pictoral educational
colostrum and          functionaries  materials on
exclusive                              breastfeeding
breastfeeding for      TEAs             - weaning methods
infant care and                         - maternal nutrition,       MOHFW
survival               ANMe            etc.
AWe             0 Promote GOI
breastfeeding policies
public          and programs
4. Increase   a) Motivate health      Health          a) As part of overall
client        functionaries to        functionaries  research on area-specific
utilization   provide increased       and MCM staff  service delivery
of gov't      and regular MCH                         infrastructure &
MCH primary   services so as to                       operational levels,
health        benefit FW/MCa                          conduct inventory of MCl
services      programs                                service levels and
staffing patterns at key
b) Increase and        ANMs             service units.
upgrade the            AWs
commiunication         CHGs             b) Conduct formative
skills (counselling    TBAs             research/literature
& motivation) of key                    review on health
functionaries                           functionaries' knowledge.
behavior and attitudes.
c) Improve image and  ANMs              c) Review training
morale of key health  AWe               curricula and strengthen
functionaries          CHGs            where necessary.  (See
including TBAs         TBAs             page 2.)
BEEs



- 146 -                   ANNEX 19
Page 6
Proposed      IEC Aims                Target          IEC Activities              Collaborative/
Health                                Audiences                                   Responsible
Service                                                                           Agencies
Goals
c) Improve image and  ANMs             d) Conduct district-         private sector
morale of key health  AWs               specific ongoing mass       and MOHFW
functionaries          CHGs            awareness activities to
including TBAs         TBAs            1) promote mass knowledge
BEEs            of MCH services available
and 2) improve
image/boost morale of
health functionaries.
MOHFW
e) Produce IEC materials
for use by service
providers in clinic
counselling and outreach
activities.
f) Institute program        MIES system
impact and monitoring
system to track client
use of health services.
* As part of ongoing mass
awareness and promotion
d) Motivate clients    public           of MCH services.  (See
to use health                           (b) above.]
services.
* Provide IEC give-aways   private
and service promotion       sector/MOHFW
feature activities at
service units.
* Conduct OR activity.
(See OR component.]



- 147 -                  ANNEX 19
Page 9
Proposed      IEC Alms                Target          IEC Activities              Collaborative/
Health                                Audiences                                   Responsible
Service                                                                           Agencies
Goals
UIP Plus      0 To continue UIP       * mothers-in-  * Reprint most               MOHFW
1. Attain     mass media              law             appropriate and effective   (centre and
and sustain   activities at           * mothers       of existing UIP/IEC          state levels)
universal     national and sub-       * health        materials                   with private
coverage      national levels         functionaries                                sector input
* family unit  0 Assess IEC materials
* community    needs for all UIP +
activities.
* Evaluate use and impact
of existing materials
2. Decrease   * Direct district-      * health        * BEEs and health            HOHFV
incidence     specific support for   functionaries  functionaries to conduct
of            control and                             small-scale community
childhood     reduction of            * mothers-in-   analyses for program
vaccine       diseases and            law             planning purposes
preventable   attainment of
diseases,     district and            * mothers       e Conduct IEC strategy       MEH
especially    national program                        and program planning
polio,        goals/targets           0 family        workshops for UIP + safe
measles, &                            unit/fathers   motherhood activities at
neonatal                                              central and district
tetanus                                               levels
private
* Design and implement      sector/HOHFW
regular multi-media UIP +
mass mobilization
campaigns



- 148 -                  ANNEX 19
Page 10
Proposed      IEC Aims                Target          IEC Activities               Collaborative/
Health                                Audiences                                    Responsible
Service                                                                           Agencies
Goals
3) UIP Plus  3) continued.            see above       * Conducts
- home visits
* To take early                         - village contact drives
action and                              - Mahila Swasthya Sangs
administer ORS and                     * As part of comunity
home-made remedies                      outreach education
efforts
* Design and implement      private sector-
ongoing process             subcontract
evaluation activities
* Conduct OR activity.
(See OR component.]         MOHFW/private
sector
* Increase health                       Develop specific IEC
functionaries'                          tools for enhancing
knowledge about                         knowledge of care givers
kinds of pneumonia                      in key UIP + areas, e.g.   HOHFW/private
and correct                            * counselling cards          sector
administration of                      oleaflets/materials for
contrimaxazoal                          use in client counselling
* in-clinic posters
* quickie films/videos
4. Increase   * Increase ANH                          for review during group
coverage of  knowledge of doses                       meetings
vitamin A     schedule and correct
prophylaxis   administration
practices



- 149-                   ANNEX 19
Page 11
Proposed      IEC Aims                Targit          IEC Activities              Collaborative/
Health                                Audiences                                    Responsible
Service                                                                           Agencies
Goals
Increasing Knowledge                   As part of overall UIP +   MOHFW/private
Decrease                                              IEC activities, develop    sector
neonatal      * Increase client       TBAs            mass information kit for    (subcontract)
deaths        use of trained birth  ANHs              use in
attendants             AWe             upgrading/enhancing
VGHs            service provider
* Increase knowledge                    communication skills.
of safe birthing                       Kit to includes
practices                              * videos
* audio tapes
* counselling cards, etc.
Increase client        clients         * Conduct large group
knowledge for need                      educational &
fort                                   motivational talks
through:
* Two TT injections
3 Management of low-                    - village contact drives
birth weight babies                     - Mahila Mandals
* Safe birthing                         - Hahila Swasthya Sang
practices
3 Importance of use                     e As part of ongoing UIP
of new razor blades                     + IEC campaign
* improved nutrition
during pregnancy                       * Provide client
* Iron folic acid                       education and counselling
during home visits
* Joint outreach visits
by AM4s and AWs.



- 150 -                   ANEX 19
Page 12
Program Goal B: Increase Home Care Health Management
Proposed      IEC Aim                 Target          IEC Activities
Health                                Audiences
Service
Goals
1. Decrease   Increase Awareness &  Mothers           * Client home care IEC
death among   Knowledge                               health kit to be
children                              Mothers-in-     presented during home
due to        * Increase awareness   law              visits by health
dehydration   and knowledge about                     functionaries.  Kit to
the use of home made                    include:
fluids including                       * ORS packets
rice water, coconut                    0 pictoral instructions
water, ORS.                             for use of ORS
0 instructions for use of
- Increase knowledge                    home available remedies.
of proper mizing of                     etc.
ORS
* Educate mothers to  Mothers           0 Education through
continue feeding                        - Mahila Mandals
during diarrhoea       Mothers-in-      - Mahila Swasthya Sang
law             - Village contact drive
* Increase knowledge
of signs of                             0 Film shows
diarrhoea and
actions to take                         0 Home demonstrations
early in episodes
Mothers         0 Clinic demonstrations
* Motivate clients
to seek advise from   Mothers-in-
health functionaries   law



- 151-                   ANN-19
Page 13
Proposed      IEC Aims                Target           IEC Activities              Collaborative/
Health                                Audiences                                    Responsible
Service                                                                            Agencies
Goals
Increase knowledge      private         0 Leaflet on 'Facts about
about patient home-    practi-          Diarrhoea Management*
based treatment and    tioners
cures for diarrhoea                     * Posters educating on       MOHFW
correct treatment of
* Motivate to                           episodes
promote use of ORS
and home fluids                         * Develop training aids
for use in continued
training of private
practioners on diarrhoeal
management
* Increase health       Health          * Village contact team
functionary             function-       group education
demonstrations of       aries and MEK
ORS mixing &            officers        * Joint outreach visits
counselling &                           by AMMs and AWs
educational
activities on ORT



- 152-                    ANNEX 19
Page 14
Program Goal C: Promote GOI Safe Motherhood Initiative
Proposed      IEC Aims                Target           IEC Activities              Collaborative/
Health                                Audience                                      Responsible
Service                                                                            Agencies
Goals
1. Promote    To increase             - Politicians  1. National Workshop on    MOHFW
the concept   knowledge,                              Safe Motherhood
of Safe       awareness, and          - Opinion        initiative for
Motherhood    approval of Safe        leaders          politicians & top
at Central    Motherhood                               influentials.
and           initiative              - Media
District      nationally              Professionals  2. Media awareness for         MOHFW
levels.                                                involvement workshop
- Medical
community       3.  Development of S.M.      private sector
leaders         information kits
containing facts,
- General       GOI/position,
public          testimonials re:
initiatives etc. for use
by spokespersons &
influentials for the
initiative.
4.  Reproduce Safe          private
Motherhood IEC kit and       sector/HOHFW
support materials for use
by health functionary
5. Develop Safe
Motherhood IEC materials
for clients
6. Impact assessment of
select IEC activities



-153-                            ANNEX 20
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Functional Guidelines for Field Level Recordkeepinp
1.          Over the almost three decades of the family welfare program, there
has been a series of efforts to develop management information (and
evaluation) systems. (MIS/MIES) in the different states. While the
requirements of the Government of India have served to standardize to a large
extent the data that are collected and transmitted, the means and formats for
recording data at field level and their use for monitoring purposes vary
widely from state to state.
2.          Given these circumstances, any effort to institute a uniform
recordkeeping system at subcenter level at this point in time would be
counterproductive and futile. Instead, the project will aim to bring about
modification in subcenter recordkeeping where necessary in order to bring it
into conformity with the following functional guidelines:
(a)   the objective of recordkeeping at field level is to produce data
that will be of use to field workers, supervisors and program
managers for purposes of monitoring, feedback and planning.
(b)   the system of recordkeeping should be designed so as to put the
least possible burden on the field worker who does the actual
recording. This means;
Ci)   consolidation of records and rigorous elimination of
duplication;
(ii)  consideration of reporting of forms (e.g., there should be
only one consolidated monthly subcenter report sent to the
PHC); and
(iii) provision of printed registers, cards, reporting forms, etc.
(c)   the system of recordkeeping should be designed so as to facilitate
assessment of both;
(i)   the current status of individual members of the target
population;
(ii)  the activities carried out by the worker in the reporting
period.
(d)   the system of recordk2eping should be designed so as to facilitate
the calculation of coveztee rates for various services from
numerators and denominators derived from the system itself.
Specifically, this means that complete records of alls (i) married
woman ages 15-44; (ii) p2egnant woman; (iii) births; and (iv)
under-fives; must be maintained if family planning and MCH
coverage rates are to be calculated.
(e)   records should be kept up to date on an ongoing basis; annual
updating of records should not be substituted for keeping records
current.



- 154 -                         ANNEX 21
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Ensuring The Qglity Of Drugs In India 1/
Introduction
1.          The quality of drugs in India is regulated under the Drugs and
Cosmetics Act of 1940 and the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules of 1945. Under these
laws, the role of the Central Government (GOI) and State Governments has been
well defined. State Governments are responsible for the licensing, sale,
distribution and manufacture of drugs in the States. The GOI is concerned
with the approval of new drugs, the quality of imported drugs, updating
standards of drugs, amendment of legislation and coordination of activL:ies
with the Stato Drug Controllers for uniform enforcement.
2           Laboratory Quality Control including Standard and Reference
Substances. There are two Central Drug Testing Laboratories in India: the
Central Drugs Laboratory, Calcutta, and the Central Indian Pharmacopoeia
Laboratory, Ghaziabad. The Central Drugs Laboratory, Calcutta, maintains
reference standards of drugs included in Pharmacopoeias and provide the
reference standards to drug manufacturers and approved laboratories. For sera
and vaccines, the Central Research Institute, Kasauli, is the statutory
reference laboratory. The Central Drugs Laboratory is a WHO collaborating
Center.
3.          Laboratory quality control is also provided through a network of
Central Laboratories and through the Laboratories in the States to meet the
increased pressure of work with the expansion of formulation manufacturing
units. Private laboratories are also permitted to test and are specifically
approved for the purpose. Under the present requirements of the Drugs Rules,
each manufacturing unit is expected to have its own laboratory testing
facility for both bulk drugs and formulations made thereof. The present
licensing procedure has been made very stringent by making it obligatory of
all units to have this facility whether they are new or applying for the
renewal of a license.
4.          Good Manufacturing Practices.  A new schedule 'M' was added to the
Drugs Rules in 1988 and has been implemented. India is also participating in
the WHO Certification Scheme for the export of drugs whereby manufacturing
units are required to follow WHO Good Manufacturing Practices. At present,
the inspection of units which apply for a certificate under the WHO scheme is
carried out generally by a team comprising the Central Drugs Standard Control
Organization (CDSCO) and State Drug Control Authorities. The final
certificate is issued by the State depending on the results of the inspection.
1/  Prepared by WHO and UNICEF, New Delhi.



- 155 -
ANNEX 21
Page 2
S.          The progress made in the short period airter the notification of
Schedule 'X' is satisfactory and is expected to improve further with proposed
strengthening of both testing facilities as well as the inspecting staff.
6.          Regulatory Control.  In  addition to the self-regulation exercised
by the manufacturers, the Drugs Control Organization also exercises through
its team of Drug Inspectors, a regulatory control by drawing samples of
formulations which are available in the market for sale to the general public
or are supplied to the public/private hospitals and institutions. Stringent
measures are taken if eny sample fails the quality control tests.
7.          Vaccines.  WHO has been collaborating with countries of the South
East Asia Region (SEAR) since 1977 in the development of vaccine programs.
The vaccines produced are in accordance with WHO specifications and are tested
in the CRI, Kasauli, which is recognized by WHO.
8.          With technical and financial inputs, WHO and UNICEF have now
strengthened facilities for production of bacterial and some of the viral
vaccines in India. India has also developed capabilities for the production
of DPT vaccine, rabies vaccine and polio vaccine. Several Indians have been
trained and new technology (fermentation) was introduced by WHO. WHO has also
organized an inter-regional seminar at the Pasteur Institute, Conor. to
establish tisiue culture technology for the production of rabies vaccine.
9.          Quality Control of Vaccines.  WHO's major thrust in the South-East
Asia Region has been to establish expertise in quality control of bacterial
and viral vaccines. Nationals from several countries of the region were
trained in quality control procedures and techniques. Intercountry and
national seminars were organized for training of nationals in quality control
of DPT, polio and measles vaccines. A network of WHO Collaborating Centers
has been established in the region: in India, Indonesia and Thailand, where
facilities are available for quality control of DPT vaccine and training of
nationals in quality control procedures. International consultants
recommended by WHO, and working on the request of GOI, UNICEF and WHO, have
reviewed vaccine production and quality under the Universal Immunization
Program (UIP) and found them both satisfactory.
10.         Future Trends in Vaccinology.  In the future, WHO will concentrate
on the transfer of technology for the development of new vaccines,
particularly the viral vaccines for hepatitis, rabies, and new bacterial
vaccines, and will develop training programs for vaccine production and
quality control.



- 156 -
ANNEX 22
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Schedule of Appobntmaet of Additional Staff
STAFF                    TOTAL    1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96
Research Officer                 10       10        -        -         -        -
Cold-Chain Officer                9        9        -        -         -        -
Technical Assistant              12       12        -        -         -        -
District MCH Officer            160      160        -        -         -        -
Statistical Investigator        200      200        -        -         -        -
Steno-typist                     15       15        _ -           -             -
Refrigeration Mechanic          200      200        -        -         -        -
Clerk                           200      200        -        -         -        _
Drivers                         500      500        -        -         -        _
Auxiliary Nurse Midwife       6,000    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500         _



- 157 -                                    ANNEX 23
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Proiect Costs
Table 1: Summary Costs by Component and Time
8ns Costs                            Total
91/92      92/93       93/94      94/95          RS      (tiS$ '000)
= _:=                     =5  _=   =--
A. CHILD SURVIVAL IMMUNIZATION           663.929.5  413,332.9  413,332.9  418,424.5  1,909.019.8  78.238.5
B. CHILD SURVIVAL PROPHYLAXIS            325,574.6  263,031.9  302e033.8  330,968.8  14221,609.1  50,065.9
C. SAFE MOTHERHOOD                       331,190.8  493,834,3  727.168.7  8194820.8  2,3729014.6  97.213.7
D. MANAGEMENT AND SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT    474,255.9  680,947.0  740792.7  757,246.6  2,653,242.3  108,739.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                      1,794,950.8 1#851,146.t 2#1834328.2 2#326,460.7  8,155,895.9 334,257.6
Phwsical Contingencies                   153,732.9  1520476.3  178,870#6  199,783.1    673,863.0  27,617.3
Price Contingencies                      177,665.5  330,819.2  566,457.2  783M010#5  1,857,952.5  -32,290.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                      2,126,349,2 2,334441.7 2,928,656.0 32m9254.4  10t687,701.4  329,584.2
_t_------- ------               - =              ==-
Taxes                                   113.571.6  109P550.1  137,910.3  152,487.7    513,519.7  15873.2
Foreign Exchange                        326,684.3  3120771.9  411,320,5  455,822.3  14506599.0  46,534.4
August 20, 1991 10:49



- 158 -                                       ANNEX 23
Page 2
Table 2: Summary Costs by Categories of Expenditure and Time
Base Costs
(Rs Million)                Foreign Exchanre
91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   Total        Z     Ahount
~~~~C    ==Z-_ G___=C_-- =SCSCZZ    =Z-
I* INVESThENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                96.1   138.6   174.1   163.9    572.8    10.       62.5
B. VEHICLES                                   51.6    39.5    45.5    45.5    182.2   8B,         16.3
C. EQUIPMENT                                 108.0   154.4   247.3   247.3    757.0    34.8      263.5
D. COLD CHAIN EQUIPMENT                      203.5    92.1    92.1    96.9    484.6    34.8      168.7
E. LOCAL ADVISERS                             70.1    71.5    81.3    87.1    309.9      0.0       0.0
F. PROFESSIONAL FEES                          22.4    22.4    20.6    20.6      85.9     0.0       0.0
6. MCH MATERIAL AND SUPPLIES                 121.8    97.5    97.5    97.5    414.4      9.9      41.1
H. VACINES                                   356.1   246.9   246.9   246.9  1,096.8      9.9     108.8
I. OTHER DRUGS                               222,2   320.1   327.7   335.3  1,205.3      9.9     119.5
J.o DRUGS                                    164.2   147.0   180.1   210.5    701.8      9.9      69.6
K. VITAMINS                                   38.6    10.8    17.0    23.3      89,7    39.8      35.7
Lo DISPOSABLE DELIVERY KITS                    6.5    16.2    32.4    48.5    103.5    19.9       20.6
N. TRAINING                                  139.8   235.8   281.5   281.5    938.7      3.0      27.9
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                       1601.0 19592.8 1i844.0 1,905.0  6,942.7    13.5       934.1
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES OF ADD. STAFF                    73.3   120.7   156.5   192.4    542.8      0.0       0.0
B. CONSUMABLE                                10.4    10.4    10.4    10.4      41.7    19,9       8.3
C. REPORTING FEES                            13.0    32.4    64.8    97.2    207,5      0.0       0,0
D. OPERATION , MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES       32.1    21.8    27.9    34.0    115.7      5.0       5.7
E. OTHER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE           65.2    73.1    79.6    87.5    305.4      5.0      15.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                           193*9   258*4   339*3   421.5  1213.1      2*4      29.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                           1,795.0 1,851.1 2,183.3 2,326.5  8,155.9    11,8      963*2
Phlsical Contingencies                        153.7   152.5   178.9   188.8    673.9   113*6       91.8
Price Contingencies                           177.7   330.8   566.5   783.0  1858,0   124.3      451.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                            2P126.3 2t334,4 2,928.7 3,298.3 10,687.7    14.1   1,506.6
=-_==_ =--_#   _   5  =--   ====   ==  =             __Q
Taxes                                         113*6   109.6   137.9   152.5    513.5      0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                              326.7   312*8   411*3   455.8  1,506*6      0.0       0.0
ou§t- -- -20,                                                     -----   --
August 20P 1991 101#49



- 159 -                                           ANNEX 23
Page 3
Table 3:  Summary Costs by Component, Categories of EzpendLture and State
Phwical
WAJMT   AND             Catlnuncie
CHILD SURVIVAL CHILD SrVIVAL    SAFE        SYSTES
I8lUNIZATION    PROPR#ALXIS  HIOTHERHO    DEVELPENT    Totll       Z   Aount
*=Z=   X=X==sssa=w*_ *acmzzlwa----- =a=:s =s--
I. INVESTIIENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VRKS                                       -           24,3       548.5              -    572.8  10.0   57.3
. UVEHICLES                                         -           136.6       45.5              -    182.2  10.0   18.2
C. EQUIPHENT                                        -           41.6       696.5           18.9    757.0  10.0   75.7
Do CLD CHAIN EGUIPIENT                          484.6              -           -              -    484.6  10.0   4895
E. LOCAL AD9ISERS                                 24.5           10.5       40.9          234.0    309.9   5.0   15.5
F. PROFESSIONAL FEES                                -            3.6        82.3              -      85.9  10.0    8.6
s. HOCH nATERIFL AND SOPLIES                   303.1              -           -          111.3    414,4   5.0   20.7
H. VACIHES                                    1s096h               -           -              -  1,096.8  10.0  109.7
I. OTHER DRUGS                                                     -        30.4        1W175#0  1,205.3  10.0  120.5
Jo DRUS                                             -          701.8           -              -    701.8  10*0   70,2
K. VITMITHS                                         -           99.7           -              -      89.7  10.0    9.0
L. DISPOSABLE DELtVERY KITS                         -               -      103.5              -    103.5  10.0   10.4
H. TRAININ6                                         -              -           -          938.7    938*7   5*0   46.9
Total INVESTENT COSTS                            1,909.0         1s00682    1,547.5        2,478,0  6,942.7   9.8  611.1
II, RECURRENT COSTS
A. SLALIES Wf ADD. STAFF                           -            79.3      414*.           48*7    542.9   5.0   27.1
B. CONSUMABLE                                      -           41.7           -              -      41*7  10.0    4.2
C. REPORTING FEES                                  -              -       207.5              -    207,5   50   10*4
D. OPERATION F NAINTOENHCE OF VEICLES              -            92.4       23.3              -    115.7   5.0    5
E. OTHER oPERATION AND HAINTENANCE                 -              -       178.9          126.6    305.4   5.0   15.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                  -          213.4       924.5          175.3  1#213.1   5.2   62.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                              1,909.0         1t221.6    2#372.0        24653.2   8155.9   8*3  673.9
Physical Contingencies                           174.5           113.1      1939           192.4    673,9   0.0    0.0
Price Contlngencies                              413.3          271.9       606h7          566.2  1,858.0   7M8  144.1
Total PROJECT CSTS                                2,496.8         1,606.5    3,172,6        3,411.8  106987.7   7.7  817.9
z2=_Z=  uz==~m=m= m8=z=  == =
Taxes                                           I.1             96.9       138,7          111.9    513.5   9*1   46.7
Foreign Exchmnge                                 469.7           229.b      544.3          262.8  1,506.6   8.7  131.1
AuSust 20, 1991 10:49



- 160 -
ANNEX 24
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Basis of Prolect Cost Estimates
Introduction
1.          The estimates are based on MOHFW projections of expenditures for
the years 1991/92 through 1994/95 with some retroactivity to October 1990.
Investment Costs
2.          Civil works costs are based on the cost of minor extensions and
repairs about 6,300 existing PHCs and CHCs and construction of 120 stores and
about 1,700 subcenters. Estimates for improvements or extensions to the first
level referral facilities such as CHCs for the Safe Motherhood program are
based on the preliminary results of the Facility Survey.
3.          Professional fees for design and supervision of construction are
estimated on the basis of private practice in India which total about 15Z of
the cost of civil works.
4,          Cold-chain equipment is based on the costs of detailed equipment
lists developed by MOHFW and UNICEF. These lists are included in the Project
File.
5.          Supplementary equipment for Sub-centers, PHC, and CHCs in the
Districts under the Safe Motherhood Initiative, are based on the costs of
lists of equipment developed by MOHFW and UNICEF on the norm of 400
Subcenters, 50 PHCs and 10 CHCs per district at unit cost of RS 6,500, 20,000
and 100,000 respectively.
6.          Educational Materials and MCH Supplies.  Materials for training
and medical and MCH supplies, postage, stationery, and office material are
estimated on the costs of annual requirements determined by MOHFW and reviewed
by the appraisal mission. Syringes and needles costs are based on estimates of
annual requirements of about 6.0 million syringes and 4.0 million needles at
the annual cost of Rs. 68.42 million.
7.          Vehicles are based on the provision of two jeeps/vans per district
for all 466 districts and 20 tr--wheelers per district for the 180 districts
under the Safe Motherhood Initiative.
8.          Training is based on norms agreed among MOHFW, UNICEF, and the
appraisal mission for each type of medical, managerial, paramedical and other
staff to be trained in a typical d-trict under the UIP "Plus" and the Safe
Motherhood programs respectively. Costs include the travel and daily
allowance of the trainers and trainees, and the cost of development and
distribution of training materials. More precisely, the estimates cover the
cost of training of (a) the National Core Training Team (100); (b) the cost of
the Leadership Team at the Center and in the States (134); (c) the cost of
District Core Training Teams (5000); (d) the cost of 130 medical officers and
1,090 paramedical workers and 3,235 TBAs per district under the UIP "Plus"



- 161 -
AIMEX 24
Page 2
program; (e) the cost of special training in obstetric care, anaesthetic and
laboratory work of 20 medical officers per district under the Safe Motherhood
program; and (f) the cost of training of the field staff of 30,000 subcenters
to be opened in remote and difficult areas.
9.          Drugs costs include two items.  Durg for the UIP  PlusZ program
which is based on the targeted beneficiaries of a typical district, the dosage
of the drug to be dispensed, the coverage for each district to be introduced
in a phased manner to the program, and maintaining the current coverage level
for the districts to be introduced into the program in the following years.
The above norms as well as the unit cost per dosage for each of the drugs
(IFA, cotrimoxozole, ORS and Vitamin A) were developed by HOHFW and UNICEF and
reviewed by the appraisal mission. The tables below summarize the target
number of beneficiaries, coverage, and the cost of each of the drugs according
to the phased introduction of the districts into the program. The second item
represents the difference (increment) in the norm allocation for drugs to be
supplied to all subcenters. This is to be increased to Rs. 5,000 from the
currently level of Rs. 2,000.
10. Iron and Folic Acid Tablets
Annual Requirements per District.
(a)  IFA Prophylaxis for           32,000 pregnant women
32,000 lactating mothers
10.000 IUD acceptors
Total beneficiaries  -        74,000
200 tabs. per beneficiary -  14.80 million tabs
(b)  IFA for anaemia control   =  32,000 pregnant women
300 tabs per beneficiary  .   9.60 million tabs
Total/tabs                 X  24.40  million
(c) Total cost at Rs 12 per 10,000 - Rs. 293,000 for project districts.
(d) Prophylaxis target for other districtst 32,000 pregnant women
32,000 lactating mothers
10,000 IUD acceptors
Total beneficiaries                        74,000
[No target for anemia control in non-project districts)
200 tabs per beneficiary - 14.80 million tablets.
Total cost for a non-project districts - Re. 177,000
(e) IFA prophylaxis for 40? of
children in a population of 260,000
beneficiaries                 -  104,000
100 tabs per beneficiary      =  10.40 million tabs
Total cost at RS. 8 per 1,000 - Rs. 83,200 per district



- 162 -
ANNEX 24
Page 3
Total cost of the program
IFA LARGEt for ?regnant women,                      IFA SHALL: for children
lactating mothers and
IUD recipients
Total
UIP Plus        RS     Other        Re         All           Rs        Rs
Year    Districts       Hill   Districts   Mill         Districts    Hill      Mill
91/92      50            14.65    416       73.63       466          38.77     127.05
92/93     150            43.95    316       55.93       466          38.77     138.65
93/94     250            73.25    216       38.23       466          38.77     150.25
94/95     350          102.55    116        20.53       466          38.77     161.85
Totals                  234.40             188.32                   155.08     577.80
Total large 422.72 million
Total small 155.08 million
Expenditure on IFA 1989-90: Re 62.60 million
Total anticipated expenditure without this project - Rs. 250.40 million
Incremental Cost (included in project) - Re. 577.80 - Re. 250.40 = Rs. 327.40
million
11. Cotrimoxozole
Annual Requirement per District
Assumption: Pneumonia attacks children below 5 years of age. In a population
of 260,000 with 3 attacks per child per year.  Total attacks - 780,000
Actual Pneumonia in 102 = 78.0000
Average 20 tabs per case - 1.56 million tabs
Total costs at Rs. 100 for 1000 tabs - 0.156 million
Total Costs
Year        Districts       Coverage      Rs Million
91/92          50              50S           3.90
92/93         150              501          11.70
93/94         250              50S          19.50
94195         350              50S          27.30
Total                                       62.40
Expenditure on Cotrimoxozole in 89-90t NIL
Incremental Costs (included in project) - Rs. 62.40 million



- 163 -
ANNEX 24
Page 4
12. Oral Rehydration Salts (ORS)
Annual Requirement per District
Target: Children under 5 years - 260,000 children
Average of 3 episodes per year    780,000 episodes
Cases of dehydration estimated at 1OZ - 78,000 dehydration cases
3 packets of ORS per case        =  234,000 packs
Cost at Rs2.00 per packet        =  Rs. 468,000 million
Total costs
UIP Plus               Rs.        Other                 Rs.
Year   District  Coverage  Million    Districts  Coverage  Million    Total
91192     50        502       11.70        416        25Z     48.67
91/93    150        50?       35.10       316         252     36.97
93/94    250        50?       58.50       216         252     25.27
94/95    350        50?       81.90        116        25Z     13.57
Total                        187.20                          124.48    311.68
Expenditure on ORS in 1989-90: Rs. 16.46 million
Total anticipated expenditure on ORS without this project - Rs. 65.84 million
Incremental Costs (included in project) = Rs. 311.68 - Rs. 65.84 = Re. 245.84
million
13. Vitamin A
Annual Requirement per District
Doses
Target:  94Z of live births (60,000 infants) 1/2 dos.            30,000
942 of infants (56,000 one-year olds) 2 dos            112,000
902 of one year olds (50,000 two year-olds) 2 doses_100,000
Total dose required per district per year                       242,000
Total cost at Rs. 0.60 per dose                             Rs. 145,000
Total costs
UIP Plus                Rs.         Other                 Rs.
Year   Districts  Coverage  Million      Districts  Coverage  Million         Total
91/92    50          80X       5.80         416        401     24.13          29.93
92/93   150          80?      17.40         316        401     18.33          35.73
93/94   250          80X      29.00         216        402     12.53          41.53
94/95   350          80X      40.60         116        40?      6.73          47.33
Totals                        92.80                            61.72         154.52
Expenditure in 1989-90: Rs. 24.60 million
Total anticipated expenditure without this project - Re. 98.40  million
Incremental cost (included in project) - Rs. 154.52 - Re. 61.72 - Rs. 92.80
million



- 164 -
ANNEX 24
Page 5
14.         Vaccines costs are estimated on the basis of the following:
(a)   targeting about 22.83 million infants for OPV, DPT, BCG and Heasles
vaccines during the first year of their life. This represents 1002 of
live births. More precisely, the annual cost for the entire country,
(466 districts), is as follows:
Type of    Target in      Doses in       Unit cost          Total
Vaccine    millions       millions        Rsldose           Rs million
OPV        22.83         177.85           .85              151.17
DPT        22.83         121.46           .80               97.16
BCG        22.83          45.66           .50               22.83
MSL        22.83          45.66          2.25              102.74
Total      22.83         390.63                            373.39
(b)   targeting about 25.63 million pregnant women or IOOZ pregnant women,
18.73 million children age 10, and about 18.36 million children of age
10 (85X of total) for TT and about 19.48 million children (852) of up
to 5 years of age for DT. More precisely, annual cost for the entire
country, (466 districts), is as follows:
Type of     Target in    Doses in         Unit cost         Total
Vaccine     Millions      Millions        Rs/Dose           Re million
T.T         62.72        135.87            .25               33.97
D.T         19.48         52.77            .50               26.39
Totals      82.20        188.64                              60.36
Grand
Totals/yr  105.03        579.27                             433.75
Total for 4 years: Rs. 1,735.00 million
Expenditure in 1989-90: Rs. 189.83 million
Total anticipated expenditure without this project - Rs. 759.32 million
Incremental costs (included in project) - Rs. 1,735.00 - Rs. 759.32 - Rs. 975.68
million
Recurrent Costs
15.         TBA's Fee for reporting deliveries is calculated on the basis of
64,000 deliveries per district per year and on a REs. 10.0 fee for each
reported delivery. This expenditure is provided for under the Safe Motherhood
program.
16.         Disposable Delivery Kits.  The total cost for the entire program
is summarized below:
Delivery Kit                    TBA fees
District    Number         Total          Deliveries    Total
Year     Cummulat.   in million   Rs millions    in mlllion   Rs millions
91/92       20          1.28           6.40           1.28         12.80
92/93       50          3.20          16.00           3.20         32.00
93/94      100          6.40          32.00          6.40          64.00
94/95      150          9.60          48.00          9.60          96.00
Totals                               102.40                       204.80



- 165-
ANNEX 24
Page 6
17.         POL Costs are based on the total number of vehicles to be utilized
during the project period including the existing fleet of 1,395 jeeps/vans.
18.         Maintenance of Cold Chain.  Costs include estimated annual repair
and maintenance costs for WIC, WIF, immunization vehicles, etc. These are
based on actual maintenance costs over the past 5 years of UIP.
19.         Salaries of Additional/Incremental Staff.  The annual cost of
opening and maintaining a new subcenter includes Rs. 23,600 for salaries of
one ANM, one attendant and one sixth of the salary of LHV. Incremental
salaries are also included for the specific staff listed in Annex 22.
20.         Rent.  Rs. 1,000 for rental of a temporary facility.  The new
subcenters will be opened about at the rate of 1,500 per year during FY91/92
and FY94/95.



- 166 -
ANNEX 25
Page I
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Financing Plan by Categories of 3xpenditure
IDA     UNICEF        GOI       TOTAL
Civil Works                  21.14         -         2.36       23.50
Equipment                    26.32        3.00       3.58       32.90
Cold-Chain Equipment          7.04       12.00       1.76       20.80
Vehicles                      5.92         -         1.48        7.40
Training                     12.24       22.50       1.36       36.10
Local Consultants            11.34        2.60       1.26       15.20
MCH/IEC Supplies               7.28       7.00       1.82       16.10
Medicines                    61.96         -        15.99       77.95
Vitamins                      3.12         -         0.78        3.90
Vaccines                     26.08       12.00       6.52       44.60
Delivery Kits                 3.52         -         0.88        4.40
Salaries                     15.60         -        5.20        20.80
TBA Reporting Fees            4.50        2.00       1.50        8.00
Consumables                    -          1.70        -          1.70
O+M                           8.44        5.00       2.81       16.25
TOTAL                       214.53       67.80     47.27       329.60



- 167-                         ANNEX 26
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Proiect Additionalitvy and Sustainability
The Health Sector
1.    Achievements in health and population over the past 20 vears in India
have been impressive. With per capita income of about US$ 300, India's life
expectancy at birth of 57 represents a gain of 30 percent in two decades,
exceeding the level reached in Japan just 45 years when per capita income was
considerably higher than in today's India. Despite impressive achievements,
w'men and children continue to face serious health challenges.  Unlike other
Asian countries where women on average live 2 to 7 years longer than men, life
expectancy for Indian women lag behind men, and infant mortality, while
declining, is still high in most rural India. Launching the family welfare
program, with special emphasis on safe motherhood and child health, the
central government intends to correct misallocation of resources at home away
from women and children, and the state governments tendency to favor more
curative services at the tertiary hospital level.
2.    India spends about four percent of its GNP on health.  This share
compares favorably with the Asian average of 3.1 but is about half the 8
percent spent on health in industrialized countries. Private out of pocket
expenditures account for about two thirds of total spending. Per capita
government expenditures amounts to USS 4.00, of which the center spends USS
1.00 and the States about USS 3.00. India remains almost exclusively
dependent on tax revenues to support all government activities in health.
User fees and health insurance finance a negligible share of government
expenditures. The range of public per capita state expenditures is very
large.  Himachal P.adesh spends 5 times more per person (150 Rs.) than Uttar
Pradesh (28 Rs.) or Bihar (29 Rs.). Central Government expenditures on family
welfare and HCH programs are more equitably distributed across states. Indeed
the MCH program is designed to target the poorer states and to offset state
government expenditures which favor hospitals and curative services.
Family Welfare Program (FWP)
3.    Resource allocations over the last two decades reflect increasing
government commitment to the program. Financial outlays under the Seventh
Plan (32560 million Rs.) were six hundred times greater than those allocated
under the Third Plan. The share of FWP to total health expenditures increased
from 10 percent during the Third Plan to almost 50 percent during the Seventh
Plan and compared to total public sector expenditures from 0.3 to 1.8 percent.
MCH is a key and growing component of FWP, accounting for about one-fourth of
expenditures in 1990, up from 16 percent five years earlier. Operational
expenses account for three fourths the expenditures, drugs and vaccines for
over 10 percent, and staff training absorbed 3 percent of total capital and
recurrent expenditures, a significant share implying emphasis on quality
improvements in service delivery.
4.    As public sector budgets increased, FWP and MCH activities competed
favorably for more than proportionate increases of resource allocations.



- 168 -
ANNEX 26
Page 2
During tight budgetary squeeze, however, they were at a disadvantage. The
recent difficult budgetary conditions, further aggravated by the Gulf crisis,
resulted in reduced allocations for FWP and HCH programs. The 1990/91 FWP
allocations of 6750 million Rs. were 142 less than the 1989/90 expenditures
(7810 million Rs.). For HCH activities, allocations were reduced by 3 percent
from 1970 to 1900 million Rs. The decline was the first in the history of
these programs and implies vulnerability during periods of stagnating overall
government budgets.
5.    The MCH project will reverse the sluggish start of the first year of the
new planning period (1991-95) as GOI adjusts its resource allocation criteria
in favor of externally assisted projects during periods of budget
difficulties. The proposed 1991/92 MCH allocations of 574 million Rs.
represents the highest annual increase since the inception of the program
(200X) and amounts to 384 million Rs. ($ 192 million) over 1990t91
allocations. The proposed allocations for the remaining years of the Eighth
Plan 1991-95 would increase at 112 p.a. over the 1991/92 allocations. By
1995, MCH will account for one-third of total PWP expenditures, an increase
from one-fourth in 1990.
Project Additionality
6.    Resource allocation for the MCH program, with and without the MCH
project (supported by UNICEF and IDA), are presented in Table 6. Six
scenarios depicting probable allocations without the project have been
identified in Tables 7-14. The first assumes a continuation of the decline at
the 1989/90-1990/91 level of 3.3?. The second postulates that the decline
will be arrested in 1991/92 and will remain stable for the consecutive three
years. The third scenario applies the same annual rates of growth experienced
during the previous five years of the Seventh Plan - a very optimistic
scenario. The fourth, fifth and sixth scenarios assume 10, 20 and 30 percent
annual increases during the 1991-95 period. The proposed resource allocations
"with the project" are given annually in Table 3.
7.    The basic conclusion is that external assistaLce to the MCH program,
through the project, would be mostly, if not totally additional resources over
what would be predicted had external assistance not been provided. By the end
of 1992, "additional, resource allocations would range from US$ 147 million
under scenario 3 to US$ 195 million under scenario 1. By the end of 1993,
cumulative additional resource allocations, again mostly on account of the
project, would range from US$ 315 to US$ 431 million.
Sustainabi ity
8.    Under the present financial circumstances in India, it would be
difficult to present a quantifiable set of indicators ensuring availability cf
financial resources to sustain FWP/MCH activities at meaningful levels beyond
the project's life cycle. However, in addition to government assurances,
several qualitative factors provide positive indications of program
sustainability.
(a)   When the project is completed in FY9!, recurrent expenditures on
the project would represent a very small share - 3.4? of total GOI
expenditures on health and family welfare programs.



-169 -                         ANNEX 26
Page 3
(b)   The Central Government finances one hundred percent of capital and
recurrent expenditures of the FWPIMCH program. A unique features
of this program is that during the successive five-year plans, no
liability of the previous plans has either been transferred to the
non-plan budget of the states or the central government. All
liabilities will continue to be paid by the central government
from the "Plan* budget. Inasmuch as central government revenues
are more stable than those of state governments, the FWP/MCH
activities are less likely to experience major fluctuations in
resource allocations.
(c)   FWP/MCH program is one among six special schemes comprising the
'Technology Mission' program for which the central government has
made a commitment to allocate financial resources on a priority
basis; a moral shield if not a guarantee against major budgetary
reductions.
(d)   The Central Government launched FWP program to redress the growing
inequitable distribution of health expenditures as state
government expenditures favored second and tertiary level services
(mainly hospitals) at the expense of primary, preventive care
services.  FWPIMCH activities disproportionately benefit the
poorer segment of the population as FWP expenditares represent a
larger share of total health expenditures in sates with lower per
capita income compared with the more endowed states. In addition,
the need to sustain the MCH program will especially be true in
times of fiscal constraints to assist in mitigating the
consequences of macroeconomic stabilization.
Ce)   Successful implementation of an integrated package of MCH
activities under the project would set in place an effective
infrastructure across the country, supported by institutional
mechanisms, information, monitoring and evaluation systems and
trained staff that would not require duplication in future years,
thus easing the pressure for continued increases in financial
outlays. The cost of maintaining these efforts would increase but
at much lower levels than initial program set-up.



-170-                        ANNEX 26
Page 4
Table 1: Pattern of Plan Outlays on Health & Family Welfare
Program in Seven Planning Periods (Rs. Crores)
Planning Periods
First    Second   Third    Fourth   Fifth    Sixth    Seventh
Plan     Plan     Plan      Plan     Plan      Plan      Plan
(51-56)   (56-61)  (61-66)   (69-74)  (74-79)  (80-85)   (85-90)
Health Services            65.2    140.8   225.9    335.5       760.8   1821.0   3392.9
Family Welfare Program      0.1       5.0    24.9    278.0      491.8   1010.0   3256.3
Total Health & FWP         65.3    145.8   250.8    613.5    1257.6   2831.0   6649.2
Total Public Sector      1960.0   4672.0  8576.5  15778.8   39426.2  97500.0  18000.0
As Proportion of
Total Publ_c Sector:
a. Health Services Z      3.3       3.0     2.6      2.1        1.9       1.9      1.9
b. FWP              X     0.0       0.1     0.3       1.8       1.3       1.0      1.8
c. Health & FWP    Z      3.3       3.1     2.9       3.9       3.2       Z.9      3.7
Source:  Health Information India 1990
Table 2: Family Welfare Expenditures During the
Seventh Plan Period 1985/96-1989/90
(Rs. Crores)
Maternal & Child   Other         Total Family   MCH as 1
Health (MCH)        ProRrams     Welfare (NWP)  of FWP
1985/86             77.1               4O2.6          479.7         16.1
1986187            114.0               454.9         568.9          20.0
1987/88            127.3               463.5         590.8          27.5
'988/89            158.8               513.0         671.8          30.1
1989/90            196.7               584.7          781.4         25.1
Total Seventh      673.9              2418.7        3092.6          21.8
Plan
Sources  Ministry of Health & Family 'felfare



-171-                           ANEX 26
Page 5
Table 3: Proposed Allocations to FWP
1990-91 - 1994-95 (Rs. Crores)
Year                      Total              MCH
1989190                   781 _              197 /a
1990/91                   675 a              19O L
1991192                  1892 ac             574 .c
1992/93                  2100 Jc             650 JC
1993/94                  2335 /c             740 /
1994/95                  2600 Jc             845 L.
Total 1990/91 - 1994/95               9602 I4            2999 /d
La Actual expenditure 1989/90.
/b Approved allocations 1990/91.
fc Mission estimates based on discussion with MOHFW officials.
/d MOHFW Proposed allocations for 1990/91 - 1994/95.



- 172 -
ANNEX 26
Page 6
Table 4: Per Capita Expenditures on Family Welfare Program
by State 1986187
State/Union Territory                Rank               Per Capita Expenditure
in Rs.
Below 5 Rupees
Arunachal Pradesh                      1                          3.28
Jammu & Kashmir                        2                          4.42
Goa, Daman & Diu                       3                          4.44
Bihar                                  4                          4.54
5-7 Rupees
West Bengal                            5                          5.01
Orissa                                 6                          5.93
Tripura                                7                          6.17
Maharashtra                            8                          6.36
Anrdhra Pradesh                        9                          6.44
Tamil Nadu                            10                          6.63
Rajasthan                             11                          6.66
Haryana                               12                          6.71
Assam                                 13                          6.91
7-10 Rupees
Madhya Pradesh                        14                          7.59
Uttar Pradesh                         15                          7.89
Pondicherry                           16                          7.92
Punjab                                17                          8.36
Gujarat                               18                          8.58
Meghalaya                             19                          9.41
Karnataka                             20                          9.59
10 & Over
Kerala                                21                         11.17
Manipur                               22                         11.58
Mizoram                               23                         12.60
Sikkim                                24                         13.68
Himachal Pradesh                      25                         14.74
Nagalnnd                              26                         22.33
ALL INDIA AVERAGE                                                 7.61
Per Capita Expenditure on Family Welfare 1985-87
Year                                  Rs.
1985                                  5.88
1986                                  7.24
1987                                  7.61



- 173 -
ANNEX 26
Page 7
Table 5: Comparison of Per-capita Public Expenditures on Health &
Family Welfare in Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra (1985-87)
(in Rupees)
Uttar Pradesh               Maharashtra
Family Welfare
1985                              5.7                          6.4
1987                              7.9                          6.4
Other Health
1985                            25.6                          49.8
1987                            28.7                          69.4
Total Health & FW
1985                            31.3                          56.2
1987                            36.6                          75.8
X Growth 85-87
Family Welfare                   39                            0
Other Health                     12                           39
Total H & FW                     17                           35
Family Welfare as
' of total Health
1985                            18                            11
1987                             22                            8



- 174 -
ANNEX 26
Page 8
Table 6: MCH Expenditures with & without IDA Project
Under Different Probable Scenarios 1/
(in Rs. Crores)
With                        Without Project
Year          Project           __ ._._. _._.
Scenarios 1/
1     2     3      4     5       6
89/90           197          197   197   197   197   197    197
90/91           190          190   190   190   190   190    190
91/92           574          184   190   281   209   228    247
92/93           650          178   190   341   230   274    322
93/94           740          172   190   391   253   328    418
94/95           845          167   190   485   278   394    544
90191-94/95   2999           891   950  1661  1160  1414   1721
Table 7: MCH Project Additionality by Year Under Different
Probable Scenarios, 1991/92-1994/95
Scenarios 1/
Year                  1      2         3        4       5        6
1991/92      Rs Cr    390       384     293      365     346      327
$ M      195      192     147      183     173      164
1992/93      Rs Cr    472       460     336      420     376      328
$ M      236      230     168      210     188      164
1993/94      Rs Cr    568       550     348      487     412      322
$ M      284      275     174      244     206      161
1994/95      Rs Cr    678       655     360      567     451      301
$ M      339      328     180      283     225      151
1992-95      Rs Cr   2108    2049    1337    1839    1585    1278
$ M     1054    1025      669      920     792      639
1/ Assumptior.s:
Scenario l  The rate of decline between 1989/90 and 1990/91 of (3.3Z) will
continue throughout the period.
Scenario 2:  Arrest the decline of previous year and annual expenditures
remaining constant at 1990/91 levels.
Scenario 3s  Applying the same annual growth rate of expenditures during
the Seventh Plan.
Scenario 4:  A 102 annual increase in expenditures 92-95.
Scenario 5:  A 20X annual increase in expenditures 92-95.
Scenario 6:  A 30  annual increase in expenditures 92-95.



- 175 -
ANNEX 26
Page 9
Table 8: MCH Proiect Additionality under Several Probable Scenarios 1/ 1991-95
Scen.rio 1               Scenario 2               Scenario 3
Year      Crores Million Cumula-  Crores Million Cumula-  Crores Million Cumula-
tive                     tive                     tive
Rs.    US$   US$ M       Rs.    US$   USS M       Rs.    US$   US$ M
1990/91     - 7      - 4    - 4       - 7     - 4    - 4       -7      - 4    - 4
1991/92     390      195    '95       384     192    192       293     147    147
1992/93     472      236    431       460     230    422       336     168    315
1993/94     568      284    715       550     275    697       348     174    489
1994/95     678      339   1054       655     328   1025      1337     669    567
Total
1992-95    2108    1054   1054      2049    1025   1025       1337     669    699
Scenario 4               Scenario 5               Scenario 6
Year      Crores Million Cumula-  Crores Million Cumula-  Crores Million Cumula-
tive                     tive                     tive
Rs.    US$   US$ M       Rs.    US$   USS M       Rs.    US$   US$ M
1990/91     - 7      - 4    - 4       - 7     - 4    - 4       - 7     - 4    - 4
1991/92     365      183    183       346     173    173       327     164    164
1992/93     420      210    393       376     188    361       328     164    328
1993/94     487      244    637       412     206    567       322     161    489
1994/95     283      920    451       225     792    301       150     639    639
Total
1992-95    1839      920    920      1585     792    792      1278     639    639
1/ Assumptions:
Scenario 1:  The rate of decline between 1989/90 and 1990/91 of (3.3z) will
continue throughout the period.
Scenario 2: Arrest the decline of previous year and annual expenditures
remaining constant at 1990/91 levels.
Scenario 3:  Applying the same annual growth rate of expenditures during
the Seventh Plan.
Scenario 4: A 1OS annual increase in expenditures 92-95.
Scenario 5:  A 202 annual increase in expenditures 92-95.
Scenario 6:  A 30Z annual increase in expenditures 92-95.



- 176 -
ANNEX 26
Page 10
Table 93 HCH Expenditures With and Without Prolect
Additionality
SCENARIO       Without      With          Re.         USS        Cumulative in
No. 1          Project    Project    (crores)    (million)    US$ (million)
1989/90           197
1990/91           190        190
1991/92           184        574          390         195            195
1992/93           178        650          472         236            431
1993/94           172        740          568         284            715
1994/95           167        845          678         339           1054
1990/91-94/95    891        2999         2108        105l           2395
Assuming the rate of decline between 1989/90 and 1990/91 of 3.32 will continue.
Additionality
SCENARIO       Without      With          Re.         US$        Cumulative in
No. 2          Proiect    Proiect    (crores)    (million)    US$ (million)
1989/90           190
1990/91           190        190
1991/92           190        574          384         192            192
1992/93           190        650          460         230            422
1993/94           190        740          550         275            697
1994/95           190        845          655         328           1025
1990/91-94/95   1160        2999         2049        1025
Assuming the decline will be arrested and annual expenditures remain at the
present 1991 levels.
Additionality
SCENARIO       Without      With          Re.         US$        Cumulative in
No. 3          Pro1ect    Project    (crores)    (million)    US$ (million)
1989/90           197
1990/91          190         '90
1991/92           281        574          293         147            147
1992/93           314        650          336         168            315
1993/94           391        740          348         174            489
1994/95           485        845          360         180            669
1990/91-94/95   1661        2999         2049        1025
Applying the same annual growth rates of expenditure during the Seventh Plan.



- 177 -
ANNEX 26
Page 11
Additionality
SCENARIO       Without      With         Re.          USS       Cumulative in
No. 4          Proiect    Project    (crores)    (million)    US$ (million)
1989/90
1990/91          190         190
1991/92          209         574         365          183            183
1992/93          230         650         420          210            393
1993/94          253         740         487          244            637
1994/95          278         845         567          283            920
1990/91-94/95   1160        2999        1839          920
Based on an assumption of a 10? increase in expneditures annually beginning
1992/93.
Additionality
SCENARIO       Without      With         Re.          US$       Cumulative in
No. 5          Proiect    Project    (crores)    (million)    US$ (million)
1989/90
1990/91          190         190
1991/92          228         574         346          173            173
1992/93          274         650         376          188            361
1993/94          328         740         412          206            567
1994195          394         845          451         225            792
1990/91-94/95   1414        2999        2049         1025
Based on an assumption of a 202 increase in expenditures annually beginning
1992/93.
AdditLonality
SCENARIO       Without      With         Re.          US$       Cumulative in
No. 6          Project    Protect    (crores)    (million)    US$ (million)
1989/90          197
1990/91          190         190
1991/92          247         574         327          164            164
1992/93          322         650         328          164            328
1993/94          418         740         322          161            489
1994/95          544         845          301         150            639
1990/91-94/95   1721        2999        1278          639
Based on an assumption of a 20? increase in expenditures annually beginning
1992/93.



- 178 -                          ANNEX 27
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE HOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Coordination Between Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare and Women and Child Department
Introduction
1.          Cooperation between family welfare and ICDS workers in the field
has improved in recent years. One way in which this has been fostered is by
holding immunization sessions at Anganwadi Centers, with worker from both
programs assisting. Under the proposed project, efforts will be made to build
on this beginning to achieve similar levels of cooperation in implementing the
other key UIP Plus/Safe Motherhood interventions. The gains from improved
cooperation are potentially very significant since ICDS now covers about 40Z
of India, including most of the most backward and hard-to-reach areas. ICDS'
288.000 Anganwadi Works (AWs) offer an enormous potential for increasing
health service outreach in these areas. Both programs stand to gain from
improved cooperation since their aims are so similar. For example, the
following interventions under the proposed project are already recognized
elements of the ICDS service package:
(a)   Anaemia prophylaxis for pregnant and lactating women;
(b)   Immunization;
5C)   Ante- and post-natal care including high risk referrals;
(d)   Diarrheal disease c ntrol;
(e)   Health check/referral for under-fives;
(f)   Vitamin A prophylaxis for under-fivesg and
(g)   Identification and referral of ARIs.
2.          This Annex sumnarizes several Government Orders issued in early
1991 with the aim of improving coordination. These orders are important,
because they help to clarify roles for workers, and demonstrate to field staff
that improving cooperation is seen as a serious issue. But GOs alone may not
be sufficient to change time-worn practices in the field. Therefore, measures
will be taken under the proposed project in five additional areas to reinforce
and complement the existing instructions:
(a)   joint planning;
(b)   clarification of task assignments and work routines;
(c)   joint supervision;
(d)   informal joint training; and
(e)   harmonization of formal training curricula.



- 179 -                          ANNEX 27
Page 2
Recent Government Orders
3.          In February, 1991. the following orders were issued by both Family
Welfare and Women and Child Development Departments:
(a)   Multi-Purpose Health Workers Female (MPHWFs) to visit each
Anganwadi Center (AWC) in their area at least once a fortnight, on
a predetermined day;
(b)   Delivery kits to be routed through AWs to TBAs and pregnant
women;
(c)   Vitamin A to be distributed by AWs;
(d)   Health staff to attend monthly meetings held by ICDS staff;
(e)   Referral of cases from ICDS to health services to be strengthened
by:
*i)   issuing quick 'priority' referral slips for all ICDS cases;
(ii)  creating an exclusive counter at PHCs/CHCs/district
hospitals for attention to ICDS referral cases; and
(iii) number of referral cases to be a special agenda item for
monitoring and discussion at monthly meetings.
Joint Planning
4.          ICI)S staff should be fully involved in the annual planning process
at the district level, since ICDS is an intrinsic and important part of
district health services. ICDS staff have in particular an important
substantive contributi.n to make to target-setting at the district level,
since special targets say need to be set for ICDS blocks. With the greater
outreach available in lCDS areas, it may be realistic to plan for project
coverage targets to be achieved faster in these Blocks than over the district
as a whole. As well as the substantive contribution, the process of joint
planning will have important benefits. Officials who have worked together to
produce a District plan will have greater commitment to jointly achieving its
goals.
Task Assignments anJ Work Routines
5.          The proposed distribution of tasks between AWWs, and MPHWs, TBAs
aind VHGs is shown in Annex 18. The two project interventions for which AWWs
would be primarily vesponsible at MCH sessions would be the distribution of
Vitamin A and of IFA. With regard to the other project interventions, MPHWs
and AWs would work to cooperate, and ensure that these are incorporated into
field workers" work routines via the supervision and training system.
6.          AWWs would assist the MPHW in the following main wayst
(a)   alert mothers to the timing of upcoming immunization/MCH sessions
to be held in their village, encourage mothers to come, attend and



- 180 --
ANNEX 27
Page 3
assist at the sessions, be available to mothers in subsequent days
for follow-up;
(b)   meet with the MPW on her arrival in the village on home visit
days, to brief her on the priority clients to visit. These would
in particular include newly pregnant women; children with health
problems such as severe ARls; severely malnourished children, or
malnourished children with infection; and clients, especially poor
clients, not making use of program services;
(c)   accompany the MPW on selected home visits in the afternoon (the
AWW, who is a part-tine, low-paid worker, and who has a full
program of work at the AWC in the mornings, cannot be expected to
escort the HPHW throughout all of her rounds).  AWs and MPHWFs
should especially aim to jointly visit rwothers not making use of
services; and LBW/malnourished children who may need referral, or
special follow-up care from the AW; and
(d)   help in the achievement of MCh targets, including birth-spacing,
by advising the MPHWF of clients needing particular services, and
by educating and encouraging mothers.
7.          In order for AWs to have an incentive to assist MPWs in the above
way, it is important that their cooperation be reciprocated by help from the
MPW, in the following main ways:
(a)   advApe on appropriate dare/referral for children who have either
persistent malnutrition or malnutrition complicated by infection.
These are cases likely to be beyond the AW's skills to treat;
(b)   help in reducing malnutrition by using the opportunity of her
regular ante-natal care visits to stress to mothers the importance
of eating more during pregnancy; taking advantage of supplementary
feeding at the AWC; and of rigular growth monitoring for the
child;
(c)   use her greater education/IEC skillslsocial standing to assist the
AWW to put across key messages at group meetings; to encourage the
participation of resistant clients; and to develop the support of
local influential persons for both FW and ICDS programs; and
(d)   help the AWW with the completion of her records.  This will be
particularly important in tribal areas where AWWs are often not
fully literate.
Joint Supervision
8.          Greatir cooperation can also be fostered by joint supervision of
field workers. This has both substantive benefits, in temss of greater
understanding of each others' program; and proceas benefits, in that if field
workers are visited by their supervisor from both programs simultaneously,
this sends a clear message about the importance of working together at the
village level. It is proposed that ICDS and health staff at the district
level should carry out at least one joint supervisory field visit a month;



- 181 -
ANNEX 27
Page 4
BMOs/CDPOs at least four per month; and MOs/Mukyha Sevikas at the PHC level at
least four per month.
Joint Informal Training
9.          Revised task assignments and work routines, along with the new
special emphases of the family welfare program on the UIP Plus/Safe Motherhood
interventions, can best be communicated by training workers from both programs
together in the groups in which they will cooperate. At the higher levels of
the two services, it is proposed that this should be done through a series of
two-day annual workshops, for both program managers and trainers. For
managers, separate workshops will be held at the State and district level, to
orient them to the UIP Plus/Safe Motherhood program, prior to the holding of
the first district planning exercise.
10.         For trainers, three types of workshops will be held.  One, at the
regional level, will bring together trainers from Middle-Level ICDS Training
Centers with principal trainers from Health and Family Welfare Training
Centers, plus the National Core Training Team to be formed under the proposed
project. The second, at the State level, will bring together the Medical
College consiltants and otber trainers used by the ICDS Central Technical
Committee to conduct the Integrated Training Scheme for ICDS, the trainers of
State Anganwadi Training Centers, and the State Core Training Team. The
third, at the district level, will bring together the District Training Team
to be created under the proposed project, with the medical consultants
attached to the ICDS blocks in the district. In each case, the purpose would
be orient the participants to the priorities to be adopted by the family
welfare program under the Eighth Plan, and to ensure that a common approach to
training workers of both services is taken. In each case also, state or
district managers from both programs would be asked to participate, to promote
the exchange of experience between the field and classroom.
11.         At the field level, MOs and CDPOs would have received joint
orientation at the district-level workshops. Thereafter, a series of
workshops would be held at the block-ltvel to bring together all ICDS and
family welfare field staff in a given sector- i.e. a group of up to three
supervisors (two HAs and an MS), ten MPWs (male and female) and 20-25 AWWs.
The trainers would be the BMO and the CDPO, assisted by a member of the
District Training Team. The purpose would be to orient the group as a team to
the proposed family welfare prioritiros; work out plans for the sector area in
the context of the district and block level plans already developed; and to
address problems in service delivery, IEC or inter-departmental cooperation in
the local area. Such workshops would be carried out on annual basis to review
progress and problems, and to draw up plans for the succeeding year.
Harmonizing Basic Training Curricula and Operational Strategies
12.         The orientation training summarized above would be informal, based
on curricula to be developed jointly by MOHFW and WCD. In addition, there is
a need to ensure that on-going formal training course curricula in both family
welfare and ICDS, as well as ICDS operational strategies, reflect the
priorities of the proposed Eighth Plan family welfare program. Issues which
must be addressed include, for example, the need to reflect the special
emphases of the UIP Plus program; to incorporate the new strategies for IFA



- 182 -
ANNEX 27
Page 5
and Vitamin A; to develop a new module for Safe Motherhood, including a
consistent set of guidelines for identifying obstetric complications and for
referrals; and to revise ICDS training curricula to follow the new policy
guidelines on diarrhoeal disease control developed by MOHFW. In these and
other areas, changes will need to be made to the basic and in-service train3ng
curricula for both MPWs and AWWs, and therefore also in supervisor training
curricula at all levels. A Committee from MOHFW and WCD will be set up to
systematically identify needed changes, which will then be pursued with
relevant authorities such as NIPCCD and the Nursing Council.



- 183 -                          ANNEX 28
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
District Plann=._  Guidelines
Introduction
1.          The Family We-lfare jrogram is a centrally sponsored scheme,
implemented by the States within the framework of fairly rigid guidelines or
norms developed by the Center. During the Seventh Five-Year Plan period,
there was growing concern that the centralized, standardized nature of the
scheme gave local program managers insufficient flexibility to meet varying
local needs. There was also increasing awareness that variation within
States in terms of language, social and religious groupings, distances between
settlements, access to services, and health and nutrition status, is as
significant as variation between states, given the size and diversity of
India. There is now a consensus that the family welfare program should as far
as possible be tailored to meet the needs of individual districts, and
therefore that the district should be seen as the basic 'unit of management'
for the proposed project.
2.          A second, related concern was that the target-setting process for
the program, especially for family planning acceptors, was too top-down in
nature. Performance targets imposed from above, and not sufficiently related
to local capacities and constraints, had three main adverse effects: first,
staff motivation suffered where targets were unrealistically difficult or too
easy to achieve, rather than 'challenging but attainable'; second, in many
areas, 'target-chasing' became more important than providing high quality
care; and third, in some areas, performance figures were rigged. Under UIP, a
more participative approach to target-setting was developed, and there is a
growing consensus that a greater involvement of local managers in setting
realistic targets for all interventions is likely to improve not only worker
motivation and program quality, but also program coverage.
3.          Therefore, under the proposed project, MOHFW intends to adopt a
district-based planning system, which will allow local managers more
flexibility in designing operational strategies to meet local needs, and
participation in setting their own performance goals for each of the key
interventions   This annex outlines the process which will be followed to
develop distr t plans, and the basic principles or 'rules of the game' which
States and d: -ricts will follow.
The Planning Procesb
4.          Guidelines for district planning will be developed by MOHFW by
September, 1991 on the basis of trial planning efforts in one or two States.
The process being experimented with begins with a State-level workshop in
which State and District managers are briefed on the content of the proposed
UIP Plus/Safe Motherhood program, and in which a first draft of a series of
district plans is drawn up. A subsequent workshop is designed to refine these
plans, and to synthesize the lessons of this initial planning process in a set
of planning guidelines, to which would be attached a sample district plan to
illustrate the required format (but not to serve as a standard model for



- 184 -
ANNEX 28
Page 2
content). Once finalized, these guidelines will be circulated to all
districts participating in the proposed project. Preparation of a
satisfactory district plan will be a precondition for any district to have
access to project financing.
PlanninR Principles
5.          While the deta,led guidelines for the planning process are under
preparation, it is understood that district managers will plan according to the
following basic principles.
6.          Continuous process.  The planning process will be an annual one,
rather than a single exercise undertaken at the beginning of the project. Each
year, districts will review progress made the previous year, d2velop specific
plans to improve performance during the subsequent year, and develop targets for
the major project interventions based on what district managers believe to be
possible.  Draft plans will be discussed with State authorities, modified as
necessary, and adopted as agreed. The planning process should therefore take
place in September and October of each year. This will be late enough in the year
for performance figures for the previous financial year -o be available, and yet
early enough for the financial implications of the proposed plans to be fed into
the annual central planning/budgeting process, which is normally completed in
December of each year.
7.          Vertical and Horizontal Cooperation.  The planning process will be
initiated by district-level staff, working with the health staff representatives
of each block in the district. The district plan will be built up from estimates
by each block of what they can achieve, based on their staff and other resource
availabilities, and the particular advantages and constraints of their areas.
The planning process will also be a joint effort with other agencies in the
district whose work affects public health. From the beginning, the Women and
Child Development department (or its local equivalent in the particular State),
will be involved in the process, because of the importance of the ICDS scheme to
achieving program goals (see Annex 27). Other departments/agencies would be
associated later in the process, such as health units of railways, defence and
public sector undertakings and private sector %.orporations; private voluntary
agencies; associations of private practitioners; and representatives of
traditional medical systems.
8.          Intra-District Variations.  Just as districts vary substantially
from each other, so also may PHC and Sub-Center areas within districts,
depending on their geographic or population characteristics, or local resource
availabilities. Plans will therefore be expected to allow for this variation,
by differentiating strategies and targets by block or groups of blocks.
Appropriate responses may to be to concentrate resources in particular areas
of the district, for example, to concentrate certain IEC activities in
resistant areas, or supervision resources on poor performing blocks; or to
develop distinct service delivery strategies, for example for referral in
hard-to-reach parts of a district.
9.          Special Strategies.  To respond to particularly difficult local
conditions, in districts as a whole or in parts of districts, district
managers will be free to propose special strategies or programs. These may
take the form of a reallocation of resources under their control, in which



- 185 -
ANNEX 28
Page 3
case they can be implemented without outside sanction. But under the proposed
district planning process, managers will mlso be free to propose new
strategies which require additional resources or changes in established
procedures, and hence sanction from the State or Center. Such strategies
might include, for example, proposals for additional transport or supervisory
posts for hard to reach areas; or special demand creation activities, such as
development of special IEC materials in local languages. Such strategies
should be justified in terms of special local constraints, and in terms of the
likely benefits, quantified if possible, of the proposed additional
expenditures.
10.         Such proposals would be sanctioned, or turned down at the time of
the annual review of district plans, by the State or center as appropriate.
States will be given the discretion to sanction additional amounts for
districts up to a specific limit per district, after which central approval
would be required. MOHFW will decide on the size of these ceilings, and
develop illustrative guidelines for eligibility of proposals by December 1991.
11.         Target-setting.  Each district will agree to tentative performance
targets for each PHC based on the planning discussions described above, and
will amalgamate these targets into proposed performance targets for the
district as a whole. Where these targets differ significantly, either
positively or negatively, from 'norm' performance targets established by the
Center per average unit of population, districts should be prepared to explain
the differences. The final targets agreed for the district should be the
product of discussion between State and Center, based on a realistic appraisal
of assets and constraints in the area, rather than a negotiated agreement.



- 186 -                          ANNEX 29
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MnTHERHOOD PROJECT
Key Indicators
1.          Direct assessment of program effectiveness in achieving program
goals of reducing maternal and child morbidity and mortality will be
difficult. Particularly in rural India, vital events are not reliably
recorded. State-level estimates of infant and young child mortality rates
will continue to be available from the Sample Registration System (SRS). With
this exception, mortality and morbidity estimates will be dependent on
expanded roverage evaluation surveys and on special studies skich as the
excellent maternal mortality study carried out by the Indian Institute of
Management Bangalore in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh in 1984.
2.          Program progress can also be monitored through a number of more
accessible process indicators, as indicated below. Many of these indicators
will take two forms: (a) quantity of services delivered; and (b) coverage
level achieved. Quantity of services delivered is or will be available from
service statistics, including reports from PHCs/CHCs and reports from both
public and private sector hospitals on child survival and safe motherhood
services provided.
3.          Coverage estimates will be available from coverage evaluation
studies, contraceptive prevalence surveys and prevalence calculations based on
service statistics, special studies, and to the extent available aggregated
coverage statistics based on field-level recording. In the case of those
indicators referring to the treatment of diseases (ARI, diarrhoeal disease),
coverage will be calculated using the number of cases treated from service
statistics as the numerator and either the number of under-ones from the child
register or a demographic estimate multiplied by a standard estimate of
incidence as the denominator.
Process Indicators of Project
A.    Child Survival
(a)   low birth-weight births identified;
(b)   immunization coverage by type and dose;
(c)   ARI cases treated;
(d)   diarrhoeal disease cases treated; and
(e)   Vitamin A prophylaxis.



- 187 -                         ANNEX t9
Pag3 2
B.    Safe Motherhood
(a) antenatal registration by trimester;
(b) antenatal care including:
tetanus toxoid,
anaemia prophylaxis (I&F) and treatment,
examination and tests,
(c) attend.nce at delivery by type (including low birth weight babies
identified);
(d) high-risk referrals by type;
(e) post-natal care; and
(f)   contraceptive prevalence by method.



- 188-                            ANNEX 30
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Operational Research and Studies
Section lt Operational Research and Studies Undertaken by GOIJUNICEF under
the Universal Immunization Program (UIP)
Introduction
1.          The term operational research (also called operations research or
action research) is used to cover a variety of kinds of research activities.
For example, OR projects can incorporate research designs with careful
controls built in or they can be carried out on a much less formal basis. The
scale can also vary greatly. What they have in common is an action component,
that is, they are used to introduce, test and/or modify strategies,
structures, and activities, as a survey would do. OR projects are also
frequently used to evaluate alternative changes or options in existing
programs.
2.          The immunization program in India is one of the largest in the
world in terms of pregnant women and infants immunized annually; quantities of
vaccines utilized; number of immunization sessions organized over
geographically widespread and socio-economically diverse areas. Climatic
conditions range from sub-tropical to temperate variations in temperatures.
Such conditions throw up a variety of problems for which solutions must be
found leading to needs-based operational research. The vast experience and
data collected can be used to reach relevant conclusions on program-related
issues and by program managers on the field utility of some of the equipment
currently being marketed for the immunization program. Vaccine-efficacy and
low _; 4s of vaccine-associated adverse events can be documented.
3.          Since operational research is generally carried out in the field
by personnel directly involved in the program and is need-based, the results
are more readily applied for improving management of the program. The
Immunization Program in India has given priority to such activities. Medical
Colleges and national-level institutes are involved into the various
activities of the immunization program, including operational research.
Current Status of Research Activities
4.          Vaccination Coverage Evaluation Surveys are an important
management tool in assessing program achievement, determining reasons for
failure to immunize and a better understanding of the sources of immunization
in the community. The surveys also help to assess the accuracy of data
through service statistics. Information on important indicators of antenatal
and perinatal care are also obtained. 870 surveys have been conducted.
5.          Disease Surveys.  Large scale sample surveys for lameness and
neonatal deaths were conducted in 1981 and 1982 in urban and rural areas of
all major States to collect baselire data on poliomyelitis and neonatal
tetanus. Immunization coverage levels during this period were negligible.



- 189 -
ANNEX 30
Page 2
Surveys on the same scale have not been repeated.  However, lame-sss and
neonatal tetanus surveys are being combined with vaccination coverage surveys
in selected districts.
6.          Surveillance and Documentation of Disease Trends.  Additional
funds have been provided to selected Me4ical Colleges for epidemiological
analysis of data on vaccine preventable 2iaeases of cases treated at the
medical college hospitals. Use of the surveillance data from the medical
colleges and other large hospitals in the country has been utilized to
document declining trends of poliomyelitis and neonatal tetanus.
7.          Line listing of cases of poliomyelitis was started in 1989 to
check for duplication and spot-mapping of cases for identification of high-
risk areas. Line listing of neonatal tetanus cases was started from 1991. In
addition to making available data for epidemiological analysis, line lists are
useful to study the degree of duplication and identification of high riok
pockets. Follow-up of 'low-risk' patients and a typical case study has
started to study the reliability of clinical diagnosis in busy OPD's anu by
general physicians with little experience of poliomyelitis.
8.          Active surveillance has also been started in selected districts
with low incidence so that new or no cases are missed. The observations would
also be useful in determining the degree of under-reporting through passive
surveillance in a given area. However, additional support in terms of better
medical care and physiotherapy facilities would be required to make active
surveillance sustainable.
9.          Poliovirus Isolation.  The isolation of polioviruses is essential
to reach the goal-of eradication of poliomyelitis. Although, India is still
experiencing endemic poliomylitis, it is necessary that the facilities be
developed at this stage because of the large size of the country, the
logistics of collection, storage and transportation of faecal samples is
complex and would require time for its establishment.
10.         The country has at least 6 laboratories which have the capacity
and technical expertise to conduct these tests. Guidelines for the collection
and transportation of samples have been issued. A meeting of the concerned
laboratories was organized in 1990 to ensure uniformity in methodological and
interpretation of results. Samples have started flowing in to all the
laboratories but the numbers are limited. Although the laboratories in the
network have adequate experience, a limiting factor so far, has been the
recurrent shortage of supplies. As the samples are contaminated material it
is also essential that equipment is not shared with other "sterile, laboratory
work. As the workload increases additional equipment will need to be provided
to the laboratories for the establishment of a separate poliovirus isolation
unit. Additional funding will also be required for developing the logistics
of collection, storage and transportation of samples from the treatment
facilities to the laboratories.
11.         Samples from clinically diagnosed cases in Bombay have been tested
by ERC, Bombay over the last decade. There has been a change in the pattern
of isolates; the proportion of Type I isolate is declining and an increase in
the rate of non-polio enteroviruses has been observed over the last three



- 190 -
ANNEX 30
Page 3
years. This period corresponds with declining trend of poliomyelitii in
Bombay.
12.         Vaccine Efficacy is an important measure of the quality of an
immunization program. Moreover, as immunization coverage levels increase, the
proportion of cases with history of immunization also increases. This can
often cause alarm among pediatricians and others responsible for the care of
the child. The situation is aggravated if there is an alternative, more
expensive vaccine available. Program managers have therefore been encouraged
to assess their data for vaccine efficacy as a management tool, especially if
there are an: doubts or complaints have been received. A paper on 'A Simple
Screening Method for Field Evaluation of Vaccine Efficacy, has been widely
circulated.
13.         A study on the efficacy of oral polio vaccine (OPV) in Bombay has
been completed and it concluded that (a) the efficacy of OPV was high and (b)
the relatively high incidence of poliomyelitis was due to a failure to fully
immunize all eligible children. Another study using the same methodology
showed similar results ia Delhi.
14.         Use of OPV for Polio Control.  OPV is the vaccine of choice in
India for the control of poliomyelitis. The vaccine is known to be effective
in many countries of the world which have reached high levels of immunization
coverage. The obvious advantages of OPV are its ease of administration, herd
immunity and low cost. The vaccine is socially acceptable and there is a high
demand. India is self-sufficient in the production of DPT. The indigenous DPT
vaccine is not compatible with IPV.
15.         OPV vaccine was introduced in the national immunization program at
the end of 1979. Up to 1986, the overall reported immunization coverage with
OPV3 was less that 50? of the estimated infants in the country. By 1989, the
estimated coverage was around 75Z with a wide range of performance in the
States and the districts. Despite high priority on surveillance, increased
awareness in the community and better accessibility to health care facilities,
there has been a declining trend of poliomyelitis since 1989. The decline is
commensurate with immunization coverage levels. The reported incidence of
poliomyelitis has declined from more than 32,000 cases in 1981 to 13,866 cases
in 1989 and 8,014 in 1990. During the first quarter of 1991, the number of
reported cases are less than half the numbers in the corresponding period in
1990. The decline has been steeper and over a longer perlod in many States
and a large number of districts. The surveillance data from ten States and
Union Territories with a combined population of more than 250 million is
monitored separately as these States have a better health infrastructure,
higher immunization coverage levels and fairly reliable surveillance systems.
16.         During the initial years of the program, attention was largely
focused on strengthening health infrastructure, improving logistics, and the
development of training material to ensure quality and sustainability.
Coverage levels in the first half of the 1980's were low to moderate. Since
1985, with selective focus on individual districts and heavy inputs in the
Program, increases in immunization coverage levels has been more rapid. Any
impact in the early years of the Program was negated by improvements in
surveillance activities.



- 191 -
ANNEX 30
Page 4
17.         However, due to doubts raised by some scientists and ceotroversies
on the use of oral and killed polio vaccines, a project for the field use of
IPV was taken up in 2 health unit districts with an approximate population of
2.5 million. Since problems in field use and high costs is a major concern is
large and developing countries. the study was primarily focussed on
operational aspects related to field use of IPV and additional investments
that would be required in terms of manpower, training, health education of
community, supervision and supplies. The results of the study are likely to
be available by 1991. The study is being conducted by the (ICMR) Indian
Council of Hedical Research.
18.         Monitoring of the Quality Control for Vaccines. Samples of OPV are
lifted regularly from different levels of the coid chain system and tested for
potency as one of the measures to monitor the effectiveness of the cold chain.
These tests were started in 1984. 932 of the 8100 samples tested in 1990 had
more than the minimum acceptable titre at the time of testing. If any sample
is found to be unsatisfactory, the reasons for the deterioration in the
quality of the vaccine are quickly identified and specific follow-up measures
are taken to avoid recurrance in the future.
19.         Adverse Events following Immunization (AEFI'S).  The use of
several hundred million doses of various vaccines over the last decade, had
documented the safety of the vaccines used under the Immunization Program.
However, since no vaccine is 10OZ effective, none is entirely without risk.
As immunization coverage levels increase, the incidence of vaccine preventable
diseases and their complications decline and surveillance systems and
communication networks improve, the perceived relative importance of adverse
events can increase and influence public 8'- Atance of immunization services.
The monitoring of severe adverse events fo- jwing immunization was started in
India in 1985.  The main objectives were to identify programmatic errors, if
any, so that preventive measures are taken to avoid recurrence in future, to
allay public fear and to assure the community and medical professionals of the
low risk of inherent vaccine-associated severe adverse events.
20.         State and regional expert teams, with an epidemiologist, a
pediatrician and a microbiologist have been constituted for the investigation
of severe adverse events. Medical college professors have been associated
with most of the teams. Formats for the investigation of the adverse events
have been circulated through government circulars and printed documents.
Reports and technical papers on the subject have been published for
dissemination of information.
21.         Life time Cost of Refrigeration and Cold Rooms.  Heavy investments
have been made in the cold chain. A comprehensive review of program
operations in the districts was developed for mid-term evaluation. The
objective of the review was to document achievements as well as to identify
weaknesses and problems that might require corrective action or additional
support. The review wcre conducted by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare
in 1987 & 1988 in 7 of the 30 districts taken up in the first year of UIP. A
national level review in 48 districts commissioned by the Ministry of Health &
Family Welfare in 1989. The experience gained had enabled some of the States
to take the initiative of conducting similar studies in selected districts
themselves.



- 192 -
ANNEX 30
Page 5
Section 2: Indicative List of Operational Research Topics
22.         The project will first of all make use of existing, related
operational research under the Bank-assisted Population and Nutritlon (TNINP
and ICDS) Projects in the areas of improved implementation of the family
welfare program with emphasis on a shift to temporary contraceptive methods
and MCH services, and health and nutrition education for adolescent girls,
respectively. Under the project this research will be expanded to States not
covered under the Population and ICDS projects. In addition, operational
research projects will be developed in the following project areas:
(a)   Program management.  Testing of composition and functions of
proposed district resource teams.
(b)   District planing.  Options for developing successful district
planning mechanisms.
(c)   Persistent diarrhoea.  Alternatives for identification and
treatment of persistent diarrhoea.
(d)   Acute respiratory infections (ARI).  Testing of an alternative for
home delivery of cotrimoxazole and referral of severe cases.
Se)   Low birth-weight babies CLEBW.  TestinS of current assumptions
concerning measures to improve survival of LBW babies and those
with birth injuries, and to prevent asphyxia;
(f)   Anaemia prophylaxis.  Evaluation of a series of related issues
including reasons underlying and ways to overcome compliance
problems assuming compliance, effectiveness of varying levels of
dosage; and importance of deparatization;
(g)   Safe Motherhood referral.  Testing the effectiveness of
alternatives for first: referral for emergency cases; and ways to
improve community-based care.
(h)   Field-level interpersonal communication strategies.  Evaluation of
strategies for identifying local demand constraints to acceptance
of MCH services and training field workers to deal with them.
(i)   Social Marketing of ORS.  Evaluation of (i)a mix of commercial
advertising and marketing with health functioning outreach (PSS
approach) vs (ii) predominance use of commercial advertising and
marketing strategies (PSI approach).
Section 3: Special Safe Motherhood Evaluation Studies
23.         Particularly in the initial phases of the introduction of the Safe
Motherhood program, special evaluation s udies will be necessary to gain
insights into the functioning and effectit;eness of the program, identify
bottlenecks and constraints, and assess cost-effectiveness implications of the
program's various components. Research institutions with the capacity to
carry out such studies will have to be identified.



- 193 -
ANNEX 30
Papg 6
24.         In order to provide a baseline, such studies would have to be
carried out imaediatel, in selected districts where the SM program is to be
introduced. When progcam inputs, e.g. training, equipping and staffing of
CHCs, provision of emergency transportation, etc., have been in place and
functioning for a reasonable time, about a year, a follow-up study can be
carried out.
25.         Since the family welfare program is implemented by the States and
circumstances vary from State to State. it would be desirable for at least one
study to be carried out in every State. Within districts, blocks and
subcenters can be sampled. (The exact construction of the sample would be
determined by technical considerations. Even in rural India a maternal death
is a relatively rare event, which has implications for the size of the sample
needed.)
26.         There are two keys to carrying out these studies successfully.
The first is the identification of all pregnant women within the sample
population and the recording of the outcome of the pregnancy. Female field
workers (ANHs) are supposed to register all prenatal cases. However, it
cannot be assumed that even in the best of circumstances, an ANK will be able
to record all pregnancies, particularly because so many deliveries in India
take place at the home of a women's parents rather than at her own (husband's)
home. It will therefore be necessary for the researchers to identify
pregnancies not seen by the ANH as well. All pregnancies coald then be
classified as without (maternal) mortality or morbidity, with morbidity, and
with mortality. The resulting percentages would provide weights for the
population of pregnant women, and once such weights were established the
morbidity and mortality catefiries could be oversampled for intensive
investigation.
27.         At the village level, female workers (ANHs) must be able to list
antenatal cases and record standard background, history and service data
including results of tests, subsequent antenatal checkups, identification of
risk, referral recommendations, place and outcome of the delivery, by whom
delivered, postnatal care provided, etc. Natal registers for this purpose are
already in use in some States. If it is not possible to provide workers
covered by the studies with printed registers, at a minumum they need to be
given a copy of the format so that they can record the necessary data in blank
registers. It is essential that service data be recording on an on-going
basis in such a fashion that it can be recovered subsequently by researchers,
in order to know which pregnant women are reached by the ANM and what services
she is providing to those whom she does register.
28.         The second key is to follow the experience of individual cases
across levels. Once a woman leaves her village to obtain referral care,
detailed information concerning her case will be available only from those
institutions where she subsequently receives treatment. In cases where a
women in a study population does go outside the village for treatment, the
place, kind of treatment, outcome and transportation utilized would have to be
followed up and recorded. Similarly, the handling of all emergency cases
would have to be followed up.
29.         A set of parallel studies before and after the introduction of
Safe Motherhood inputs in the initial SM districts would provide process data



- 194 -
ANNEX 30
Page 7
on the provision of basic maternal care and the working of the referral system
as well as impact data in terms of reduction of maternal mortality. It would
also provide a basis for assessing the relative importance of various inputs
(training, high-risk identification, availability of staff and/or equipment,
availability of emergency transportation, etc.) in preventing maternal deaths.
(Obtaining useful data on morbidity reduction is more problematic.) In
addition, by estimating costs for the inputs, a cost-effectiveness analysis
can also be carried out.
30.         The desired impacts of the Safe Motherhood program can be measured
in terms of reductions in case fatalities and complications.   An illustrative
list of the interventions necessary to achieve these impacts and a set of
process indicators that could be used to evaluate the achievement of these
process indicators is given below. These indicators can also be analysed in
terms of prevention of pregnancies (no. 1); reduction of pregnancy
complications (nss. 2, 3, 5, 6, 7); and improvement in the treatment of
pregnancy complications (nos. 4, 8, 9).
Intervention                       Indicators
SUIBCENTER LEML
1. Improved provision of family       Increased contraceptive prevalence, esp.
planning (esp. temp. methods)    prev. of temporary methods
services                          Decreased higher order births and births
to older women
2. Improved ability of dais to        Increased referral of risk cases by dais
recognize and refer risk cases
3. Improved coverage and quality    Increased ANC registration and more
of pre-natal care by ANM8         complete provision of basic ANC services
by ANMs
4. Improved emergency care by         Improved condition of women on arrival at
dais and ANHs                     referral facilities
5. Improved delivery practices        Increased deliveries conducted by
trained dais using kits and ANMs
6. Improved community understand-   Improved ANC coverage
ing of needs of pregnant women   Reduced delays in seeking treatment for
and danger signals during         problems during pregnancy and delivery
pregnancy and delivery             Improved condition of women on arrival at
referral facilities



- 195 -                          ANNEX 30
Page 8
REFERRAL LEVL
7. Improved availability of MTP       Increased numbers of MTP procedures
8. Improved referral facilities       Provision of required infrastructure,
staff and equipment
Reduction in distance at which referral
services available
Increased numbers of referrals
Reduced waiting time
9. Provirion for emergency trans-   Increased numbers of referrals
portation                         Reduced delays in reaching referral
facilities
Improved condition of women on arrival at
referral facility



- 196 -
ANNEX 31
INDIA
CHILD SURVI"AL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Forecast of Annual Expenditures and DJsburesments
Expenditures                  Disbursements
BANK Fiscal Year           Semester    Cumulative         Semester   Cumulative
--_______-----_---US$ Million--------------------
FY92
1st (Jul 91-Dec 91)          35.4         35.4             23.1         23.1 La
2nd (Jan 92-Jun 92)          35.4         70.8             23.1         46.2
FY93
lst (Jul 92-Dec 92)          36.5        107.3             23.7         69.9
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)          36.5        143.8             23.7         93.6
FY94
lst (Jul 93-Dec 93)          44.4        188.2             28.9        122.5
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)          44 4        232.6             28.9        151.4
FY95
1st (Jul 94-Dec 94)          48.5        281.1             28.0        179.4
2nd (Jan 95-Jun 95)          48.5        329.6             28.0        207.4
FY96
1st (Jul 95-Dec 95)            -            -               7.13       214.5
Closing Date: September 30, 1995
La Includes Special Account of US$18.0 million.



- 197-                           ANNEX 32
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Rationale for Recommended Methods of Procurement
1.          Generally the nor-'al Bank methods and threshoids required for
projects in India will be applicable to this project. Some exceptions are
warranted, however, because of the special nature of vaccine, medicine and
vitamin manufacture and supply.
2.          Vaccinera.  There is an economic reason why it is unlikely that
foreign manufacturers would be interested in entering the Indian market for
these vaccines. There is no "natural" demand for these items. In contrast to
other pharmaceuticals where there is some demand in the private sector, the
vaccines needed for the project, like all preventive medicines, do not combat
illnesses that are considered an immediate threat to life and they are
included only in government programs aimed at improving the general level of
health in the population. Governmentb typically target the poorest level of
society for these programs with the result that, even in the developed world,
prices tend to be controlled and profit ma-gins very slim. Therefore, there
is usually little idle manufacturing capacity available because manufacturers
are not inclined to invest in plant to produce these vaccines when other items
can be more profitable. For this reason and those relating to logistics, '4H0
recommends that governments establish either a local or a regional
manufacturing capability for all vaccines that are on the WHO "essent54al"
list.
3.          Logistics are a key factor in deciding what procurement approach
is appropriate. Use of local sources to the maximum extent is justified by
the need to reduce the risk of loss during transrirt alone. The vaccines
covered by the project must be shipped in a refrigerated state and even a
brief expcsure to heat can either drastically reduce its shelf life or destroy
it completely. (See Table 1 which outlines the stability of various project
vaccines ak different temperatures).  In addition, the Government controls
which are imposed, combined with monitoring by WHO, ensure that the required
quality standards are kept and that the prices charged are reasonably related
to actual cost.
4.          The market situation affecting each vaccine differs, however, and
each has been considered separately by the appraisal mission.
(a)   Oral Polio:  There are three existing local suppliers of oral
polio vaccine and they cannot as yet meet all of MOHFW's needs.
These three firms consist of (i) a Central Government enterprise
(Babcock) which has a collaboration and imports the raw material
it needs in bulk from the Soviet Union; (ii) a S-ate Government
enterprise (Haffkine) which procures its raw material from various
foreign sources selected through competitive bidding; and (iii) a
private sector company (Radicula) which has a foreign



198 -                          ANNEX 32
Page 2
collaboration with and obtains its raw materials from an Italian
firm. The shortfall of less than 10 is covered by imports
purchased by UNICEF's Copenhagen office using their global
competitive bidding procedures and offered to the Ministry on a
grant basis. MOHFW complains of delivery losses with some of
these imports because of failures in maintenance of the "cold
chain." Recomendation: Accept use of the ezisting LCB procedure
regardless of estimated contract value because of the importance
of minimizing the distance between supplier and end-user, with the
exception of any vaccines purchased from Babcock because the raw
material they use comes from an ineligible source.
(b)   DPT and TT:  There are five or six WHO-approved local suppliers
respectively for these vaccines. All have proven that they can
deliver acceptable quality vaccines with a minimum of loss due to
refrigeration problems during delivery. Recommendation: Accept
use of LCB procedures regardless of the estimated contract value
for the same reasons as for the polio vaccine.
tc)   BCG:  There is only one WHO-approved source of BCG supply in
India: BCG Laboratories India, Guindi, and only nire others in the
world. In a recent case where MOHFW asked UNICEF to procure some
BCG on the world market to make up for a drop in production at
Guindi, they found that there is a current shortage of supply
worldwide. Reconendation: Allow procurement of BCG by direct
contracting from BCG Laboratories India because of delivery
problems. In any event, given the world supply situation, ICB
would be unlikely to result in lower costs. Any shortfall in
supply should be made up by international shopping.
(d)   Measles:  There are two strains of measles vaccine in the world,
E-Z and Schwartz. WHO recommends use of E-Z in the third world
because it can be administered to children younger than 9 months
and MOHFW have accepted their recommendation. There are only two
manufacturers of the EZ strain in the world: a Yugoslavian firm
and the Indian firm preferred by MOHFW which has a collaboration
with this Yugoslavian firm. Recomuendations To avoid the same
delivery problems anticipated for oral polio, DPT, TT and BCG,
agree to procurement by direct contracting from the any Indian
manufacturers.
5.          Vitamin A.  IOHFW has opted for ease of administration to young
children and to achieve better overall compliance, to disperse the Vitamin A
covered by the project during clinic visits in liquid form. The most common
alternative, soft gelatin capsules which are generally used in the West are
prone to degradation under the extreme temperatures prevailing during much of
the year in India with consequent loss of patency. Vitamin A in liquid
formulation is not available elsewhere in the world. Recomendation: Agree to
the use of LCB for procurement of Vitamin A from all approved local
manufa.turers.



- 199 -
ANNEX 32
Page 3
6.          Pharmaceuticals.  The only pharm%ceutical of significant value
needed for the project is ORS (Oral Rehydration Salts). It is justified to
procure ORS as close to the end-user as possible to minimize contamination and
loss. It is normally supplied in inexpensive packets that are easily damaged
during shipment or storage. It is readily available from over 50 qualified
local suppliers and customarily procured by the State Governments themselves,
in small quantities, not by the Ministry. Rocoondations  Permit the State
Governments to continue procurement of ORS using their existing LCB
procedures.



- 200 -
ANNEX 32
Page 4
ATTACHMENT 1s CONCLUSIONS
1.          In this paper an effort has been made to assess the loss of
potency of various vaccines kept at elevated temperatures. A summary of
available informa?-ion on EPI vaccines is shown in Table 1, where data for
various storage .emperatures are presented and, in Table 2, where the
estimated rat-'t-   degradation of EPI vaccines at 370C are listed.
2.          t1  otability of EPI vaccines varies considerably.  They can be
ranked by ths.  rn,I--ance to storage at 370C from stable toxoids to unstable
reconstituted med1ieL vaccine or oral polio vaccine (Table 16). The data
presented show th-at some vaccines can withstand a long period of exposure
without a significant loss of potency. The high resistance of tetanus toxoid
to heat, for example may warrant studies on using this vaccine without
refrigeration. Tetanus toxoid could retain sufficient potency for short term
exposure to heat when used in the outreach system of delivering immunization
against tetanus to women of childbearing age in areas where cold chain cannot
be maintained.
3.          However, each exposure to elevated temperature results in some
degradation of a vaccine, even if the remaining potency is still above a level
which is considered as the minimal immunizing potency. Furthermore, each
exposure to ambient temperature has a cumulative impact in reducing vaccine
potency: vaccines at peripheral health units will not be able to withstand
the temperatures mentioned in this review if their potency has already been
compromised by previous breaks in the cold chain. Data presented in this
review may provide some guidelines to programme managers and storekeepers at
central and provincial levels in making proper decisions about a vaccine
exposed to elevated temperatures.
4.          All vaccines should be routinely stored at the temperatures
recommended by manufacturers and by national programmes. The cold chain for
vaccines still remains a highly vulnerable point for immunization programmes
in developing countries with tropical climates.   Developed countries with
temperate climates can also have similar problems. In all countries, systems
of refrigeration, temperature monitoring and record keeping are required to
assure that each vial of vaccine is maintained under appropriate conditions
until it has been used, and that it is used before the expiry date shown on
the label.
5.          The area of greatest need for further research is the heat
stability of oral polio vaccine. This is the most sensitive vaccine of the
EPI family and it therefore sets the standard for the cold chain. Any
improvement in this vaccine would have an influence on the cost and
effectiveness of immunization programmes in tropical climates.



201 -                               ANNEX 32
Page 5
Table 1. Stability of EP? Vaccines at Various Temperstures
Storage temperature In degress Centigrade
Voccin-
0-8       1       22-25        1        5-37              over 87
Tetanus and          Stahle for        Stable for            Stable for at      Stable for 2 we ks
diphtheria toxoids   3 - 7 yoers       monthse               loeat 6 weeks      at 46 degrees C,
as monovalont                         IOSS of potency
ivaceines or                                                                     after few days at
components of       I                                      I63 degroes C and
Icoebinod vaccines                                          Ifter few hours
!  I   !             !                  ! at6 066 dgres CI
__  _   _ _  _ _    I1  ,__     _     I     ._ _ _._       I  . _ _,_._.       I       ._ _.__    . I
jPertusie vaccino     Safe storage      StI biIlty varies.    Stability varies.  At 46 degree  C
for 18-24 mos.   so"O vccnos           Soo vacines         bout IO        of
although with    stable for two        lose 50 of         potecy per day,
continuous slow   weeks.               pote ny ater on    rapid lose In
I                   I  er ss of                              week torage.        potency at 60
I                   i potency                                                    dogro C.
~~~~~~~~I                                         I ,111I
1Freezr-droid          Stable for     iSes.    Stability vorlosI Unstabl-  so
IBCC vaccine          one year          20-30% lose of       2   loss of       I loss after 30
I                                     I viability after      vlability after   I minute exposure
I                                       3--onth storage      8-14 day storage  I to 70 degree C.
;     ______________ _______                                    -.
II
IReconstituted      I Reconstituted 9CC vaccino should not be used during more than one working
IBCG vaccine          session (5-6 hours). This recommendation has two bases: (1) concern
l  over the risk of contamination, as 8CC contains no bectenrostatic agents,
j                      *and (2) coneorn over the loss of potency. 
iFreeze-dried         Stable for   j  Retains satis-         Retains satis-      S 50X loss In potency1
measles vaccino      two yoors        ......... I factory potency  factory potency  after 2-3 days
|measles vaccine      two years       I (half life) for      for at least      I exposure to 41     I
one month          Ione woek            degrees C. At U4
door"s, 80X lose
In potency after
i_____________________________ I    ______________________    I  |______ _     I    __on--day   exposur .   I
I   ..   I      .}                .     I                  l~~~~~~~~~~ I
IReconatituted      j Unstable.         Unstabl. 501        I Very unstable.        Inactivation    I
measles vaccine.     Should be usod    loss after one      | Titr- may b       I within one hour. 
in one working  I hour. 701 loss     1below acceptable  I
session.          after 3 hours.       level after 2-7
!                !                     s hours.                                I
I   ,          l                 l   _I               I         .   .I  _                   -
l0ra1 polloiyolitis   Stable for      I Unstable. S0X        Very unstable.      Very unstable.
Ivaccine           I e-12 months.   I lose aft8r 20 days.| Lose of *ati2-       A At 41 d-gres C
Some vaccines may   I fec';ory titer    S1X loss after one I
r ot ln *atisactory I after 1-3 days.    day. At 60 dogr a,
j  titers for 1-2 days                   I loss of satis-
I  I              I                    I                   I t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~actory eter aft er
I i ______________    j    __________________  I           I    1-3     hourts
I             ~~                ~~I               I,I,
Inactivated         I Stable for       Deilne of          I Loss of 0-antigen I Procise data
jpollomyslitis      I 1-4 years         D-antigen content   I for type I after     lacking.
Ivaceine                              I for type I after    1 20 days In some
I 20 days              vaccines but no                       I
I  §   |             |*significant loss
after 4 weeks In
others.



- 202 -                                 ANE  32
Page 6
Table 2. Stability o9 EPI vaccines at 37 dgroes Centigrade
I         Stability at 87 degres. Centigrade                i
iEsmated loss (M)
Voccin          of potency pert               Vaccine    ble for            Rdfrences
houir       day17
TtoUnu                       a0-1                at least 6 weeks            I 68, 69, 92, 101
idtpht rls
Itoxoldo
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I  -       1  . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .   I   .   _ _ _ _ _ _
ilnactivated     i             0 1-3 for       i o-nttg   content            i80, 92
gpoltowirus                   type rr and       unchongw f or                                    I
1vaclne                        ZIII, 06-f        severol da ysI
tor type I a      u          f
..I                                                        I_ 
IBCO vaceine     | ...         1-              j 20X loss of viability        I 18, oa
Ifeeze-driced---                                 after J-14 day exposure
*~~~~~~~~~~epsr  I :
jPertussis       I i..       11-6              1501 loss after one             84, 45, 8
Ivaccine                                       i week exposure                 92,  a  -
I                I           i                                               Ii
IMeaslesIIII
vaccine         I           I
iFreoze-dred    i ...        1 2-                Retain mintoum potency      j 23, 86, 87
!II                          I                 Itfor at least one week,
II                     I                       I although losses 201 and
'OX of potency after 1-4
I  I                *and 2-6 day *xposure
I  respectively               1
j                                     51ate  -3hu                II
Reconstituted     10-01       ...             I Very unstable, loss of
I§                                 § 50~~~~~~~~~SO after 1-3 hour  
.,  .   I         I exposure                    I
Oral, live                                      Unstable, oco of 201          as, 86 , go
poliomyelitis               |                 | and SO  after 1 and 2      I
vaccine                                         day exposure respectively



- 203 -
ANNEX 32
Page 7
ATTACHMENT 2
WHO/PHARM/86.529
ACCELERATED STABILITY STUDIES OF WIDELY USED PHARMACEUTICAL SUBSTANCES
UNDER SIMULATED TROPICAL CONDITIONS
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION



- 204 -
ANNEX 32
Page 8
WHOfJ PHAPM/86 .529
Page 2
(EXCERPTED FROM LONGER REPORT)
The study was initiated and coordinated by Dr. M. Pesez, a member of the WHO
Expert Advisory Panel on The International Pharmacopoeia and Pharmaceutical
Preparations. The World Health Organization gratefully acknowledges the
contribution of Dr. M. Pesez and of Messrs Roussel-Uclaf SA, Romainville,
France which generously offered facilities within their analytical
laboratories to effect the work.
Acknowledgements are also due to rrofessor A.W.M. Indemans,
Director of the Laboratory of the Dutch Pharmaceutical Society, The Hague,
Netherlands, who kindly performed stability studies on some substances subject
to narcotic regulations, and to Mr. B. Ohrner, Director of the WHO's
Collaborating Centre for Chemical Reference Substances, Solna, Sweden who has
corroborated many of the results obtained.1
2. Index of degradable substances
Priority was accorded to substances included within the WHO model
list of essential drugs.2  Altogether 110 of 296 substances tested were
degraded under the condition employed.
Acetylsalicylic acid                      Benzylpencillin sodium
Aminophylline                             Bephenium hydroxynaphthoate
Aminophylline hydrochloride
Ammonium chloride                         Calcium gluconate
Amphotericin B                            Calcium para-aminosalicylate
Ampicillin sodium                         Carbenicillin sodium
Ampicillin trihydrate                     Cefalexin
Antimony sodium tartrate                  Chloral hydrate
Ascorbic acid                             Chloramphenicol sodium succinate
Chlorphenamine hydrogen maleate
Bacitracin                                Chlorpromazine hydrochloride
Bacitracin zinc                           Chlortetracycline hydrochloride
Benzathine benyzlpencillin                Cloxacillin sodium (monohydrate)
Benzylpencillin potassium                 Coal tar
WHO Technical Report Series, No. 704, 1984 (WHO Expert Committee on
Specifications for Ppharmaceutical Preparations, twenty-ninth
report).
2      WHO Technical Report Series, No. 722, 1985 (WHO Expert Committee on
The Use of Essential Drugs).



- 205 -
ANEX 32
Page 9
WHO/PHARM/86.529
Page 3
Codeine phosphate                        Orciprenaline sulfate
Colecalciferol                           Oxytetracyline hydrochloride
Cresol
Paromomycin sulfate
Dapsone                                  Penicillamine
Dexamethasone sodium phosphate           Pethidine hydrochloride
Dicloxacillin sodium (monohydrate)       Phenobarbital sodium
Diethylcarbamazine dihydrogen citrate   Phenoxymethylpenicillin
Doxycycline hyclate                      Phenoxymethylpencillin calcium
Emetine Hydrochloride                    Phentolamine mesilate
Ephedrine                                Phenylbutazone
Ephedrine sulfate                        Pilocarpine hydrochloride
Epinephrine                              Pilocarpine nitrate
Epinephrine hydrogen tartrate            Procainamide hydrochloride
Ergocalciferol                           Procaine benzylpencillin
Ergometrine hydrogen maleate             Procaine hydrochloride
Ergotamine maleate                       Procarbazine hydrochloride
Ergotamine tartrate                      Promazine hydrochloride
Exthosuximide                            Promethazine hydrochloride
Ethylmorphine hydrochloride              Pyridoxine hydrochloride
Ferrous sulfate                          Quinine bisulfate
Flupehnazine decanoate                   Quinine dihydrochloride
Flupehnazine hydrochloride
Formaldehyde solution                    Retinol (Vitamin A)
Gentamicin sulfate                       Salbutamol sulfate
Guanethidine sulfate                     Senna leaf
Silver nitrate
Hexylresorcinol                          Sodium calcium edetate
Hydralazine hydrochloride                Sodium lactate
Hydrocortisone sodium succinate          Sodium nitrite
Hydroxocobalamin                         Sodium para-aminosalicylate
Hysocyamine sulfate                      Sodium stibogluconate
Sulfacetamide sodium
Imipramine hydrochloride                 Sulfadiazine sodium
Ipecacuanha powder                       Sulfadimidine sodium
Isoprenaline hydrochloride               Suramethonium chloride
Isoprenaline sulfate
Tetracaine hydrochloride
Lidocaine hydrochloride                  Tetracycline hydrochloride
Thiamine hydrochloride
Melarsoprol                              Thiamine mononitrate
Mercuric oxide yellow                    Thiopental sodium
Melrifonate                              Tolbutamide
Naloxone hydrochloride                   Undecylenic acid
Neomycin sulfate
Nystatin                                 Warfarin sodium



- 206  -ANNEX 32
Page 10
VHO/PHARM/86 .529
Page 4
3. Index of substances resisant to degradation
The following substances proved to be resistant to degradation
under the conditions of the test. It is important to emphasise that light was
excluded, since some of these substances may be readily degradable under the
influencot of light.
AcetazolIamid.                                    Dexamethasono
Acrif lavinium chloride                           Dexamethasone, acetate
Ajualin.                                          Diazepam
Al lopurinol                                      Diazoxide
Aluminiuialcetat.                                 Dicoumarol
Aluminium hydroxide                               Diethyisti Ibestrol
Amikacin                                          Digibexin
As Il :r Ide HydrochlIor Ide                      Digoxin
Aminocaproic acid                                 Diloxanid. furoate
Al knophonazon.,                                  rierprolI
Amobarbital                                       Di phenhydramin. hydrochloride
Amodiaquine hydrochloride                         Disokium edeUtat
Atropine sulfate                                  Dopamine hydrochloride
Axathloprine
Edrophonium chloride
Barbital                                          Ephedrine hydrochloride
Barium sulfate                                    Erythromyci n
Beclometasono, dipropionate                       Erythromycin othylsuccinate
Benzoesi no                                       Erythromyci n stearste
Benzoic acid                                      Ethambutol hydrochloride
Benzyl bengoate                                   Ethinyleutradiol
Btetmethasone                                     Teynodiol diacetate
Utetmethasone, va lerste
Oupivacaine hydrochloride                         Fludrocortisone
Busul fan                                         Fludrocortisone aceUtat
Fluorescoin sodium
Caffeine                                          Fluorouracill
Carbamazepi no                                    Folic acid
Cetrimi do                                        Furosemi de
Cetylpyridinium chloride
Charcoal, activated                               01libenclamide
Chloramph*nicol                                   Glucose
Chloramphenicol palmitate                         OIriseofulvin
Chlorhoxidine, diaceUtat
Chlorhoxidine, dihydrochloride                    Haloperidol
Cholroquine phosphate                   W~alothene
Chlorothiazide                                    Hexach Iorophene
Chlorproguanil hydrochloride                      l4exobarbital
Chiortal idon*                                    Homatropi no hydrobromide
Clofazimine                                       Hydrochlorothiazide
Clofibrate                                        H4ydrocortiscone
Clomifene citrate                                 Hydrocortiscone aceUtat
Codeine monohydrate
Colchicine                                        lbuprofen
CyanocobalIaol n                                  Indostetci n
* Duo to high volatilization of the substance at 50cC, a degradation study is not feasible,
though It Justifies to apply stringent storage conditions..



- 207-                                  ANNEX 32
Page 11
loodine                                           Prodnisolone acetate
Ionloisd                                         Primequine diphosphat.
Probenecid
Lactic acid                                       Progestrone
Lactos                                            Proguanil hydrochloride
LAvodopa                                          Propronolol hydrochloride
Levonorgestro                                     Propylthiourecil
Lidocoine                                         Protlonmide
Lindans                                           Pyrazinmids
Lithium carbonate                                 Pyridoatigmine bromide
Lobelino hydrochloride                            Pyrimethlamine
Magnoslum chloride                                Quinidine sulfate
Magnesium oxide heavy                             Qulnine dihydrochloride
Magnoelus  oxide light                            Quinin, sulfate
Mannitol
Mebendazol                                        Reserpine
Mopracine hydrochloride                           Riboflavin
Meprobamate                                       Rlfampicin
Methyidopa
Methyl toststerone                                Salaosoultapyridine
Methylthiourscil                                  Salicylic acid
Metodloproaide hydrochlorlde                      Sodium bromide
Metronidazole                                     Sodium chloride
Miconazole nitrate                                Sodium croogllcote
Morphine hydrochloride                            Sodium fluoride
Sodium hydrogen carbonate
Neostige ne bromide                               Sodium m_taperiodate
Neostigmine metilsulfato                          Sodium nitroprusside
Niclosamide                                       Sodium salicylate
Nicotinamide                                      Sodium thiogulfate
Nicotinic acid                                    Sprionolaecton.
Niturtimox                                        Streptomycin sulfate
Nikethaside                                       Sucrose
Ni ridazole                                       Sulfadiazine
Nitrofurantoin                                    Sulfedimidine
Noreth-sterone                                    Sultadoxine
Norethisterone acetate                            Sulfamethoxazole
Sulfamethoxypyridazine
Papaverin. hydrochloride                          Suromin sodium
Paracetaxol
Pentamidine iotionate                            Testosterone enantate
Pentetrazol                                       Testosterone propionate
Phonenctin                                        Theobromino
Phonobarbital                                     Theophylline
Phonolphthalsin                                   Thloacetazone
Phentolamine hydrochloride                        Tiabendazole
Phanytoln                                         TrIamterene
Phonytoin sodium                                  Trihexyphenidyl hydrochloride
Physostigimlne salicylate                         Trimethadione
Phytoenadione                                     Trimetoprim
Piperazine adipate                                Tubocurarine chloride
Piperezin- eltrato
Potassium bromide                                 Zinc oxide
Potassium Iodide                                  Zinc undecylenate
Prednisolone



- 208 -                         ANNX 32
Page 12
ATTACHI5NT 3: LCB PROCUREMENT: DEFINITION OF
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES BETWEEN MOHFW AND DGS&D
Pre-Procurement Activities
1.  Schedule of requirements             MOHFW
2.  Technical specifications             MOHFW
3.  Packaging specification              MOHFW
4.  Dose specifications                  MOHFW
5.  Delivery schedules                   MOHFW
6.  Post qualifica4-.on technical
criteria                             MOHFW
7.  Quality parameters                   MOHFW
8. Preparation of bid documents          DGS&D
9.  IFB                                  DGS&D
Procurement Processing
Relase of tenders                        DGS&D
Bid opening                              DGS&D
Comparative analysis of bids             DGS&D
Bid evaluation - MOHFW to be involved in tec1nica. evaluation
Tender award                             DGS&D
Follow up of supplies                    DGS&D
Dispute resolution                       DGS&D
Post Procurement
Inspection                               MOHFW
Quality testing and sampling             MOHFW
Receipt and verification
Distribition                        MOHFW
DGSD has the necessary expertise in procurement and dispute resulution and
can, exercise lcverage on suppliers because of its special zois as the GOI's
principal procurement organization.



- 209 -                         ANNXa3
Page 1
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAEE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Suaervision Plan
I.     Bank Supervision Ingut into Key Activities
Details of the supervision needs for this project are given in the
table below.
In the earlier years, the project will require about 18 staff
weeks a year of supervision, later dropping to 12. Each mission will comprise
about 4.5 staff weeks in the early stages and 3 - 4 staff weeks towards later
stages of the project. The number of missions undertaken per year will be 3
in the early years and 2 later.
The focal points of supervision will be:
(a)   review of the Semi-Annual Progress Reports that will be prepared
by MOHFW. The principal objective of these reports is the
adequate monitoring of project activities.
(b)   review of the Operational Research Program that has been
instituted and related studies that have been undertaken, in order
to determine whether program objectives are being
achieved as planned.
(c)   utilization of key indicators in the assessment of program
effectiveness. Many of these indicators will take two forms:
(1) quantity of services delivered; and (2) coverage
level achieved.
(d)   annual review of plans for the UIP Program, UIP "Plus" Program and
the Safe Motherhood Program. The annual plan for training and
civil works would also be reviewed.
IDA and UNICEF will work closely together in the monitoring and
evaluation process, both at Delhi and at the State level. UNICEF has a
representative in each state to who will assist in project supervision.
National level supervision will clearly not be possible on each
mission. Each mission, however, will visit a sample of states to examine
progress at the field level.



- 210 -
ANEX 33
Page 2
lank Supervision InMat into K2.Activities
Approximate                                                                Staff
Dates                                     Expected Skill                Input
(month/year)        Activity                  Requirements           (staff weeksl
11/91         Supervision Mission            Project Officer                4.5
(a) initiation of             Public Health
project management,           Procurement
procurement, dis-             Disbursement
bursement and key
immunization, UIP
"Plus", Safe Mother-
hood and Operational
Research activities;
(b) help develop first
set of Annual Plans for
UIP, UIP "Plus" and
Safe Motherhood Programs.
1/92          Supervision Mission            Project Officer                4.5
(a) review of Annual          Public Health
Plan for the UIP              Procurement, Disbursement
Program, UIP "Plus"           MIS
Program, and the Safe         IEC
Motherhood Program;           Training
(b) ensure that satis-
factory job descriptions
for health workers
have been instituted;
(c) ensure that satis-
factory mechanisms have
been instituted for
purposes of coordinating
the activities of the
MCH program and the ICDS
Program under the project;
(d) review the operational
research and studies prog-
ram, to be furnished by
MOHFW; and (e) ensure that
MOHFW has entered into a
satisfactory agreement with
UNICEF on procurement deve-
lopment.



- 211 -
Page 3
Approximate                                                                Staff
Dates                                     Expected Skill                Input
(month/year)        Activity                  Requirements           (staff weeks)
4/92          Supervision Mission            Project Officer                4.5
(a) help in establish-        Public Health
ing National and Reg-         Safe Motherhood
ional Maternity Mort-         Child Survival
ality Review Committ-         MIS
ees; (b) review modifi-       Accounting
cations to MIS (currently
used) if any, and bring
them into conformity
with agreed guidelines;
and (c)ensure that audit
reports are being prepa-
red and that project
States are sending indi-
vidual audit reports to
the Centre to be compiled.
9/92          Supervision Mission            Project Officer                4.5
(a) review key evalu-         Public Health
ative reports that            Child Survival
focus on the implemen-        Procurement
tation of the integra-
ted package of services
of UIP, UIP "Plus" and
Safe Motherhood Programs;
(b) take necessary correct-
ive action as might be requ-
ired for proper implemen-
tation of the integrated
package of services of UIP
"Plus" and Safe Motherhood
Programs; and (c) review
procurement management
issues.
1/93          Supervision Mission            Project Officer                4.5
(a) ensure that re-           Public Health
quired audit reports          Procurement
are up-to-date.               Disbursement
(b) review the Annual         MIS
Plan for UIP Program,         IEC
UIP "Plus" Program and        Training
the Safe Motherhood
Program to ensure that
implementation of these
programs is in line with
specified guidelines.



- 212 -
ANEX 33
Page 4
Approximate                                                              Staff
Dates                                    Expected Skill               Input
(month/year)        Activity                 Requirements           (staff weeks)
4/93           Supervision Mission          Project Officer               4.5
(a) ensure that the         Public Health
maintenance of the          Accounting
cold chain system           Cold Chain
has been satisfact-         MIS
orily transferred to
the states; (b) ensure
that individual state
audits are being comp-
iled in an acceptable
manner and being handed
over to the Center for
timely compilation of
a consolidated Audit
Report to be furnished
to IDA by the end of
every year.
There will be one more mission in 1993 and two each in 1994 and
1995.  While the earlier m;s-lons will concentrate on initiating implementation,
the latter part will concentrate on checking results against key indicators and
dealing with key constrainttr to implementation.
II.   Borrower's Contribution £, Supervision
General
(a)   Overall project monitoring and evaluation, i.e., use of credit
proceeds, achievement of objectives, etc., would be undertaken by
MOHFW with the assistance of other specialized institutions attached
to the MOHFW.
(b)   Progress Reports are to be submittel as f^1lows:
(i) in the form agreed upon;
(ii)  semi-annually; and
(iii) by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), which
will coordinate report preparation by the various project
agencies.
(c)   As part of supervision, GOI has agreed to undertake operational
research to determine whether program objectives are being achieved.



- 213 -
ANNEX 33
Page 5
(d)   GOI will also utilize the key performance indicators satisfactory to
IDA for evaluating the progress of the project and furnish to IDA
annual monitoring reports and end-of-project summative evaluation
reports focussing on the impact of the project.
Particular Areas of Concern
(a)   National and Regional Maternity Mortality Review Committees, with
their specialized power, will assist MOHFW in monitoring and
evaluating the Safe Motherhood Program.
(b)   For the monitoring and evaluation of the civil works portion of the
project, PWDs in the States will be responsible.
(c)   Procurement details and procedures will be monitored by MOHFW
along with UNICEF in the early years and later by MOHFW alone.



- 214 -
ANNEX 34
Page 1
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project Fils
A.    GENERAL REPORTS, STUDIES AND DATA COLLECTIONS
A-1   INDIA: Health Informationt Central Bureau of Health Intelligence,
Directorate General of Health Services, MOHFW, New Delhi, 1989.
A-2   Annual Report 1989-90: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW),
New Delhi, February 1990.
A-3   Year Book 1988-89: HOHFW, New Delhi, January 1990.
A-4   Rural Health Statistics: India (Quarter ending September 1990) Rural
Health Division, Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), MOHFW,
New Delhi, December 1990.
A-5   Job Responsibilities of staff of the Primary Health Center, Rural Health
Division, MOHFW, New Delhi, 1986.
A-6   Family Planni.ig Practices in Indiat Third All India Survey.  Volumes I
and II Operations Research Group, Baroda, 1990.
A-7   Census of India 1991 - Provisional Population Totals, Nanda, A.R.,
Registrar General and Census Commissioner, India, New Delhi.
A-8   A Program for Children and Women in India.  Plan of Operations 1991-
1995, UNICEF, January 1991.
B.    REPORTS AND STUDIES RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
INTER-MINISTERIAL COORDINATION
B-1   Integration of Programs and Schemes Aimed at Development and Welfare of
Women and children; Ministry of Welfare, Department of Women and Child
Development, New Delhi, February 1991.
INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
B-2   Mass Education and Media; MOHFW, 1990.
B-3   Communication Guidelines; MOHFW, 1990, New Delhi, India.
B-4   Proposed Outlay for Eighth Plan for Mass Education and Media; MOHFW
1990.
B-5   Allocation of Funds for HEM/IEC Activities for 1991/92.  MOHFW, New
Delhi, April 1991.



- 215 -
ANNEX 34
Page 2
TRAINING
B-6   Revised Health Worker (Female) ANH Curriculum; MOHFW, New Delhi,
September 1986.
DRUGS AND EQUIPMENT
B-7   List of Essential Drugs to be Supplied to Sub-Centers Report of Expert
Committee on Essential Drugs and Equipment; MOHPW, New Delhi 1986.
B-8   Essential Drugs List at CHCIPHCISC for Safe Motherhood and Basic Needs.
MOHFW, New Delhi April 1991.
B-9   List of Equipment to be available at CHC or district Hospital for Safe
Motherhood - Based on "Essential Obstetric Functions at First Referral
Level. Report of Technical Working Group Geneva, June 23-26, 1986'.
MOHFW, New Delhi, 1991.
B-10 List of Equipment for Sub-Centers, MOHFW, New Delhi, March 1991.
B-l1 List of Equipment for PHCs, MOHFW, New Delhi, March 1991.
UNIVERSAL IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM (UIP)
3-12 National Review of Immunization Program in India;.Executive Summary and
Report NIHFW, New Delhi 1989.
B-13 Guidelines for Planned Approach to Immunnization; Basic Components of a
District Immunization Plan. Special Task Force on Immunization in
Selected States, Technology Mission, GOI.
B-14 National Immunization Program; Sockhey, Jotna, NIHFW, New Delhi,
December 1988.
B-15 Supplies under the National Immunization Mission, Item Detail, MOHFW,
New Delhi 1990.
B-16 National Mission of Immunization; Department of Bio-Technology, Ministry
of Science and Technology, MOHFW, New Delhi, September 1987.
B-17 Health: The First Priority: Universal Immunization Program - MOHFW,
New Delhi 1991.
B-18 Measles: Guidelines for Health Workers - National Immunization
Program - MOHFW, New Delhi 1991.
B-19 Compilation of Important Circulars and Instructions on the Universal
Immunization Program, MOHFW, New Delhi, September 1988.
B-20 Transport and Equipment Management - UNICEF, New Delhi, April 1991.
B-21 Management of the Cold Chain and other MCH Supplies. MOHFW, New Delhi,
April 1991. The Cold Chain System in India (Logistics); UNICEF, New
Delhi, 1990.



- 216 -
ANNEX 34
Page 3
UNIVERSAL IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM - PLUS (UIP PLUS)
B-22  Diarrhoea Management; Policy on Management of Diarrhoeal Disease amongst
Children under Five through the Promotion of Oral Rehydration Therapy
(ORT); MOHFW, New Delhi, April 18, 1991.
B-23  District Planning and Work Routines:  Project on Child Survival and Safe
Motherhood, MOHFW, New Delhi, April 18, 1991.
B-24  National Program for Control of Diarrhoeal Diseases; Bannerjee, K.B.
MOHFW, New Delhi, December 1988.
B-25  Treatment of Diarrhoeal Diseases and Program Management, DGHS, MOHFW and
National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (ICMR) Calcutta,
1989.
B-26  Nutritional Care During Diarrhoea; Directorate General of Health
Services (DGHS), MOHFW; Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 1989.
B-27  Acute Respiratory Infections in Children: Policy Document, MOHFW, 1990.
B-28  Policy on Management of Vitamin A Deficiency; MOHFW, 1989.
B-29  Policy on Control of Nutritional Anaemia; MOHFW, New Delhi, January
1991.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
3-30  Concurrent Evaluation of Family Welfare Program; Evaluation and
Intelligence Division, MOHFW, June 1990.
B-31  Health Management Information System: Implementation in States/UTS at
District level; MOHFW, New Delhi, November 1990.
B-32  Vaccinution Coverage Surveys; MOHFW, New Delhi, March 1991.
B-33  UIP Plus and Safe Motherhoods Scope of Facility Survey, MOHFW, February
1991.
B-34  Proceedings of Workshop on ARI Control Ptogram; MOHFW, New Delhi,
December 1989.
SAFE MOTHERHOOD
B-35  Evaluation of Traditional Birth Attendants (DAIS) Training Scheme in
India; A Collaborative Study, National Institute of Health and Family
Welfare (NIHFW), New Delhi, 1983.
B-36  Essential Components of Safe Motherhood Programs and Corresponding
Indicators of Success. Columbia University, April 8, 1991.
B-37  Safe Motherhood Programs  Guidelines for Planners, Wong, Vivian, World
Bank, Washington D.C., April 1991.



- 217 -
ANNEX 34
Page 4
B-38 Terms of Reference for Consultancy on Safe Motherhood Initiative in 200
Districts, Society for Women and Children Foundation; Chandigarh,
February 1991.
B-39 Mother and Child Health - TBA (Dai) Guide - MOHFW, New Delhi.
PROJECT PROPOSALS
B-40 Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project: India, Project Proposal,
MOHFW, November 1990.
B-41 Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project: India, Revised Project
Proposal; MOHFW, March 1991.
B-42 Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project: India, Revised Project
Proposal, MOHFW, May 1991.
C.    WORKING PAPERS, TABLES, DRAWINGS
SET OF WORKING PAPERS (MAY 1991)
C-1   Training.
C-2   Information, Education and Training.
C-3   Social Mobilization.
C-4   Safe Motherhood.
C-5   Organized Sector Family Welfare Programs.
C-6   Evaluation of Injection Technologies.
C-7   Support of Private Voluntary Organizations in Family Welfare.
C-8   Details of COSTAB.



- 218 -
CHART 1
INDTA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
MIaternal and Child Health Services Beneficiaries
lmmunization Program (1970-1989)
-TT-Ezp.ltat MoWrn         + DOF & Dr - Children
p olio                   p4- e
In Million
30
25
20
i~so
10
0
10-fl          75-76            0-t                  87-69
YOa



- 219 -
CHART 2
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Maternal and Child Health Services Beneficiaries
Prophylaxis Program (1986187-1987188)
In Millton
50
19-7                          1987-J8
YOr
I:A#6l*d NuVtaIVID0 Me.m1I. SOON#
insb.1n I & buld,. (..pl1ed4)
2:A..lahmiIagmts -cad-vil SA bD-lleles



- 220 -
CHART 3
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
India: Distribution of Childhood Deaths
Malaria
7    '~~~     O~iarrhosal Oiseases
Neo-nstal Tetanus                           28
ARI
20              //
Meesls                      283
Seau"t survey of COuse of Seet D e.
Regogtra GoeneteL Indl 1966 



- 221 -
CHART 4
IlNDTA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Sex Ratio
Fmale per 1000 Manea
910
960e
900
1901  11  21   31   41  S1   di   71  81  1991
Consua Year



- 222 -
CHART 5
IND_A
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SArZ' MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
India: Distribution of Hateral Deaths
Puerperlum Sepels
13.1
Melposition
8.2Aba
AbortionToei
Somoa Sumy of Caues of Deaths.
.Reoitrer General Indlb 1986



- 223 -                        CHART 6
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Imlementation Phasing of National MCI Prosr
Number of Districts
Intervention                    1991/92   1992193   1993194    1994/95
Immunization (UIP):
- sustaining services                     466       466        466        466
- disease reduction: Polio
NNT*
UIP Plus package of services
(integrating programs with UIP/ORT)
- trainlng. communication, supplies,       50       150        250        350
logistics, MIS **
- ORT training units at District
Safe Motherhood
- Strengthening Service Delivery           20        30        100        180
- TBA Training
* NNT - Neo-natal Tetanus
** MIS - Management Information System



- 224 -
CHART 7
INDIA
CHILD SURVIVAL AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
The Effect of SocLo-EconomLc Development and
Provision of Health ServLces oan the Maternal MortalitL Rate *
Maternal MortJb!Ity                                       1300
Heathy Womn 'without  I
any Maternal Care                              86
(Impact of Improved
30 10_ conotie status alon-)
Unhoelthy Wmen with
Antenatal and Delivery Carle  s
(Impact of maternal
health services alone)
Healthy Wmen with
Antenstal and D-livery Care    20
(impact of improved
mocio-eonomic statue and
maternal health sorvices together)
Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR): The Effect of Health Inverventions
* Maternal deaths per 100,000 live bLrths
Source: World Health Organization Data Bank



