Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6782-AM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 40.4 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
January 31, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dram
EXCHANGE RATE
US$1.0 = 403 Dram
(as of December 1, 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACMC                     -      Aid Coordination and Management Center
ANM                      -      Armenian National Movement
CAS                      -      Country Assistance Strategy
CBA                      -      Central Bank of Armenia
CG                       -      Consultative Group
ESAF                     -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESW                      -      Economic and sector work
EU                       -      European Union
EU TACIS                 -      EU Technical Assistance to the CIS
FSU                      -      Former Soviet Union
GDP                      -      Gross Domestic Product
GNP                      -      Gross National Product
ICB                      -      International Competitive Bidding
IS                       -      International Shopping
LDP                      -      Letter of Development Policy
NMP                      -      Net Material Product
O&M                      -      Operational & maintenance
OSCE                     -      Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe
PFP                      -      Policy Framework Paper
SAC                      -      Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC                    -      Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance
Credit
SBA                      -      Stand-By Arrangement
STF                      -      Systemic Transformation Facility



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Armenia
Amount:                     SDR 40.4 million (US$60 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Payable over 35 years, including 10 years of grace, on standard IDA
terms
Objectives and Description:   The primary objective of the proposed credit is to support the
Government's reform program to stabilize the economy and create the
conditions for a resumption of growth and an improvement in living
standards. This will be achieved through (i) provision of foreign
exchange for the purchase of critical imports, particularly for the
private sector; (ii) budgetary support, especially for the strengthening
of the social safety net for the most vulnerable groups; and (iii)
providing a framework for urgently-needed financial assistance from
other donors.
The program includes policies that: (a) reorient the role of the state
away from direct management of the economy towards support of
private sector development; (b) result in improved financial discipline
for enterprises and banks; and (c) improve the targeting of the social
services and benefits to the most needy.
Poverty categ,or:           Poverty-focused. The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit would
support improvements in the targeting of social benefits to the poorest
groups and in the provision of primary health care.
Benefits:                   The implementation of the structural reforms supported by the
proposed credit will promote reorientation of the Armenian state away
from direct intervention in the economy. Enterprises will be
stimulated to adjust to the new incentive framework and the conditions
will be created for the private sector to become the engine of growth.
At the same time, efficiency gains in social service provision and
improved targeting of protection for the most vulnerable groups in
society will promote human resource development and poverty
alleviation. Fiscal adjustment and financial discipline of enterprises
will increase both public and private savings, thereby promoting price
stability, investment and growth.
Risks:                      There is a risk of stabilization and structural reform being undermined
by sociopolitical opposition if economic recovery does not proceed fast
enough to satisfy rising expectations (presidential elections are to be
held in September 1996). However, this will be mitigated by
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
improved targeting of social assistance and by continued humanitarian
assistance from donors and the Armenian diaspora. The
implementation of the reform program could be undermined by
institutional deficiencies, although the ongoing reorganization of the
public administration and the provision of technical assistance by the
World Bank Group and by other donors will help to counteract this
risk. There is a substantial risk of the international community
providing insufficient balance of payments financing in support of
stabilization and structural reform, which would entail an
unsustainable level of poverty. However, the Consultative Group
process is designed to mitigate this risk. An additional risk is that
aggregate demand will recover only slowly in Armenia's FSU
markets, and that access to non-traditional export markets will be
undermined by protectionism. A further risk is the resumption of
hostilities over Nagorno-Karabakh, and the consequent continuation of
Armenia's economic isolation. However, the current peace
negotiations continue to move in a positive direction and economic
recovery is increasing popular support for peace.
Estimated
Disbursement:              The proceeds of the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit would be
released in two tranches. SDR 8.08 million (or 20 percent of the
credit) will be disbursed against Armenia's actual imports (excluding
items covered by the negative list) since November 1, 1995, i.e. four
months prior to the expected date of signature of the credit agreement.
This retroactive financing is justified by the up-front action already
taken by the Government on many important elements of the reform
program.
Proiect ID Number:         AM-PA-42793
This report is based on missions which visited Armenia between June and November 1995,
comprising Messrs./Mmes. Jonathan Walters (country economist, mission leader), Jeanine Braithwaite
(social sectors), Stephen Lister (civil service reform), Alexandre Marc (social sectors), Cyril Muller
(trade), Alan Roe (banking), Melinda Roth Alexandrowicz (enterprise reform), Onno Ruhl (economic
management), and Salman Zaheer (energy). Afsaneh Farzin assisted in developing the
macroeconomic framework. Una Raymond provided secretarial support. Documents were reviewed
by Andrew Ewing and Alan Gelb. Basil Kavalsky and Wafik Grais are, respectively, the Director of
the Country Department, and Division Chief of the Country Operations Division, responsible for
Armenia in the Europe and Central Asia region.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE    ....   1
A.    Background ......................................   1
B.    Recent Economic Developments ..........................  3
C.    Challenges for the Future ..............................  4
D.    Macroeconomic Prospects  .............................  5
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM OF STABILIZATION AND
STRUCTURAL REFORM  .................  8
A. Stabilization.                                                             8
B.    Structural Reform - the Achievements Thus Far.                          9
Price  Liberalization   .............................    11
Energy Sector Pricing and Payments ................... 11
Reform of the External Trade and Payments Regime ......... 11
Private Enterprise Development       . . .12
Privatization                     . . .   12
Financial Discipline          . . .12
Financial Sector            . . .13
Social Assistance  ..............................    13
Labor  Market    ................................    13
C.    Structural Reform - the Agenda Ahead        .      .     .14
(a)   Financial Discipline of Enterprises .14
Energy Sector Policy           . . .14
Trade Policy and Enterprise Adjustment .15
Enterprise Privatization        .      .       .17
Enterprise Restructuring and Bankruptcy   .     .    .18
Financial Sector Reform .               .      ...     ..... 19
(b)   Improving the Efficiency of Public Spending .20
Targeting of Social Assistance      .      .      .20
Health Sector Reform ............................ 22
Education Sector Reform          . . .23
Pay and Employment Reform in the Public Service  ...           24
PART III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ..                                              26
A. Background and Objectives .26
B.  Bank/IDA Assistance to Date .26
C. The Lending Program .28
D.    Coordination of External Assistance, MIGA and IFC Activities .29



2
PART IV. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
CREDIT ....................... 30
A.      Program  Implementation and Credit Conditions   ................  30
B.      The Proposed Project  ................................   32
C.      Benefits and Risks  ..................................   35
PART V.  RECOMMENDATION   .................................   35
Annex 1          Main Economic Indicators  .............................  36
Annex 2          Status of Bank Group Operations  .........................  39
Annex 3          Timetable of Key Processing Events  .......................  40
Annex 4    Policy Matrix . ..................................... 41
Annex 5          Letter of Development Policy  ...........................  50



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Armenia for SDR 40.4 million (the equivalent of US$ 60 million) to
provide support for the Government's economic reform program. The credit would be on
standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years including a grace period of 10 years.
Cofinancing or parallel financing for balance of payments assistance is being sought. The
proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) has been prepared in parallel to an Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) (SDR 101 million) from the IMF. Total external
financing requirements of about US$366 million are projected for 1996, of which US$193
million is projected to come from multilateral sources and US$173 million from bilateral
donors (although not all identified financing is fully confirmed).
2.    Financing for technical assistance to support a number of measures in the
Government's reform program will be provided by the Bank's ongoing Institution Building
Loan and by the proposed Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC).
3.    Armenia became a member of IBRD in September 1992, and became eligible for IDA
terms in August 1993. The country joined IFC in March 1995 and MIGA in December
1995.
PART I. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE
A.   Background
4.    Armenia is a country of 3.7 million people situated on a crossroads between Europe,
the former Soviet Union, and the Middle East. Turkey lies to the west, Georgia to the
north, Iran to the south, and Azerbaijan to the east and south-west. Armenia has depended
for its economic growth on its highly educated population and strong entrepreneurial
traditions, in the face of limited natural resources.
5.    Since Independence in September 1991, the Armenian Government has been drawn
primarily from the Armenian National Movement (ANM); few Soviet-era senior officials
have remained in office. The ANM has pursued the objectives of consolidating national
independence and promoting market reform. The President, Levon Ter-Petrossian, was
elected to a five-year term in October 1991 with 80 percent of the popular vote. Presidential
powers were strengthened by the first post-Soviet Constitution, approved by plebiscite in July
1995; at the same time parliamentary elections returned an ANM majority for a five year
term. Political continuity means that most key economic decision makers have now
accumulated considerable post-Independence experience.



2
6.    However, Armenia's economic development is highly constrained by the legacy of
Soviet central planning. Armenia's production structure yielded a high degree of dependence
on trade with the rest of the Former Soviet Union (FSU) (exports and imports represented
over 50 percent of GDP during the 1980s) and on industry (which constituted about 60
percent of Net Material Product (NMP)). In the absence of raw materials and primary
processing facilities, Armenia had to rely heavily on imports of semi-finished goods and
critical inputs, particularly of primary energy resources. Armenia also had a
disproportionate share of the Soviet military-industrial complex. This high degree of
integration into the FSU economy induced economic collapse in Armenia when the intra-FSU
trade, payments and financial system broke down. More fundamentally, the elimination of
non-market pricing in trade between FSU states imposed a severe terms of trade shock on
Armenia, particularly due to the sharp rise in energy import prices. The lack of comparative
advantage of significant parts of Armenia's productive base was exposed.
7.    In addition, until recently, the structure of government was largely that inherited from
the Soviet Union: a multiplicity of ministries organized to manage the productive sectors of
the economy. Nevertheless, a strong commitment to a reorientation of the role of
government away from direct intervention in production has been established, particularly in
the core economic management agencies: the Prime Minister's office, the Ministries of
Finance and Economy, and the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA). Furthermore, the
implementation of a comprehensive stabilization and structural reform program since early
1994 has served to reinforce the coordination between ministries to a significant extent.
Moreover, the adoption of the new Constitution has initiated a radical restructuring of
government agencies.
8.    Progress on reorienting government in the transition to the market economy has
accelerated with an easing of the regional political situation. The conflict over Nagorno-
Karabakh led to a trade and transport blockade by Azerbaijan (traditionally Armenia's
principal transit route for oil, gas and other products) and the closure of the Turkish border.
The effects of this were compounded by civil strife in Georgia. However, there have been
several recent positive developments in Armenia's relations with its neighbors.
9.    Of greatest importance is the progress towards peace in the 7-year-old Karabakh
conflict: on July 27, 1994, Azerbaijan, Karabakh, and Armenia signed an agreement in
Moscow formalizing the ceasefire (which has held since May 1994) and providing for the
immediate commencement of negotiations of a comprehensive peace agreement. In parallel,
there have been signs of a rapprochement between Armenia and Turkey. These
developments offer a real prospect of a lifting of the blockade in the near future. In
addition, rapidly-growing trade with Iran and greater stability in Georgia have significantly
eased Armenia's isolation (the latter is of particular importance for improved transit of
energy supplies). This reduction in regional tension has allowed the Government to move
away from management of a siege economy towards the implementation of a comprehensive
stabilization and structural reform program.



3
B.   Recent Economic Developments
10.  Inflation is declining. Until late 1993, Armenia's membership of the ruble area, in
which most countries were conducting expansionary monetary and fiscal policy, severeiy
limited the authorities' capacity to reduce inflation. Furthermore, during 1993 the old ruble
area was disintegrating without any clear prospect for Armenia to join a new ruble area or to
receive adequate external financing. In consequence, the Government loosened financial
policies to allow the stockpiling of imported inputs. This was effected through massive net
lending to enterprises (equivalent to 17.6 percent of GDP) from the Government budget; the
budget deficit rose to 48 percent of GDP (from 27 percent in 1992), largely financed by the
central bank. In addition, in late 1993, Armenia was flooded with pre-1993 rubles which
were being withdrawn from circulation elsewhere in the FSU, which fuelled inflation even
further. On November 22, 1993, a national currency, the dram, was introduced against a
background of severe financial imbalance and negligible foreign exchange reserves. In the
last two months of 1993, consumer prices rose by 900 percent (compared to a monthly
average of 26 percent in the first 10 months of the year).
11.   However, beginning in the second quarter of 1994, the authorities took vigorous
measures to bring inflation under control. Public expenditures were limited to priority items
(entailing a sharp reduction in fiscal transfers to enterprises) and revenue collection was
increased. In consequence, central bank financing of the fiscal deficit was curtailed. At the
same time, interest rates on central bank refinancing of commercial bank credit were allowed
to become highly positive in real terms to further restrain monetary growth. In December
1994, this fiscal and monetary restraint was enhanced by an eleven-fold increase in the
administered price of bread and the consequent elimination of a substantial part of the bread
subsidy (this subsidy was estimated to be equivalent to 10-12 percent of GDP in 1994). The
bread subsidy was subsequently abolished (in June 1995). In addition, from end-1994 the
authorities' anti-inflationary stance was greatly reinforced by inflows of external financing
from the IMF and the Bank. The fiscal deficit declined from 48.2 percent of GDP in 1993
to 16.4 percent in 1994; a deficit of 8.7 percent is projected in 1995.
12.   As a consequence of fiscal and monetary restraint, inflation fell sharply. In 1995,
inflation averaged 2 percent per month as compared to 46 percent per month in the first
quarter of 1994, just before the stabilization program began. This has been accompanied by
broad stability in the nominal exchange rate since the Spring of 1994, which has enhanced
confidence in the new currency.
13.   GDP is growing and external adjustnent is beginning. After an estimated 60
percent decline in GDP in 1991-93, growth of 5.4 percent was recorded in 1994. Much of
this growth comes from the services sector (particularly trading), but enterprise survey data
show that industry has begun restructuring and diversifying into new markets. Preliminary
data suggest that GDP growth was 5 percent in 1995. Investment is beginning to revive
from near-zero levels, although most investment is still in the public sector (largely financed
by donor resources).



4
14.   The current account deficit (excluding official transfers) declined to 26.4 percent of
GDP in 1995 from 35.5 percent in 1994. This has been accompanied by an accumulation of
foreign exchange reserves equivalent to 1.5 months of imports (twice the 1994 level). The
current account deficit and reserve accumulation have been financed primarily by IMF and
donor resources with a high degree of concessionality (in 1995, official transfers alone are
expected to cover 52 percent of the current account deficit). Although the direction of change
is encouraging, it is clear that the level of the current account deficit and the associated
external financing is unsustainable over the medium term; more adjustment is needed.
15.   However, export trends are encouraging. Export growth in value terms of 22 percent
over 1994 levels is projected for 1995 on the basis of data for the first nine months of the
year. At the same time, export data show diversification into non-traditional markets;
exports to non-FSU countries are projected to be 78 percent higher than in 1994 (from 31
percent of total exports to 46 percent) while exports to FSU countries fell by 7 percent. This
export growth projection is supported by enterprise survey information, as is the recorded
export market diversification. In addition, some foreign direct investment is beginning to
take place as the privatization program accelerates. However, these achievements in GDP
growth and external adjustment remain fragile.
16.   Living standards have yet to recover. Poverty has become pervasive in Armenia
since 1991 (particularly in urban areas, where people have limited access to agricultural
land). Average monthly wages in the state sector were about US$17 in July 1995 (in the
budgetary sector they were only about US$8) and average old age pensions about US$5.
Although wages are often supplemented by informal sector income, social assistance,
remittances from abroad, and humanitarian aid, survey data reveal consumption levels barely
above subsistence for large parts of the population. Recorded unemployment is 5 percent of
the labor force and a further 15 to 30 percent are estimated to be on involuntary unpaid leave
or reduced pay for shortened working hours.
C.   Challenges for the Future
17.   The challenge facing Armenia is to achieve an increase in living standards and a
reduction in poverty through a sustained recovery in economic growth and employment.
This recovery will be sustainable only if it is accompanied by significant investment in
productive capacity, infrastructure and human resource development. At the same time,
increases in investment and consumption levels must be consistent with balance of payments
viability and with low inflation. To achieve external and internal balance will require
substantial increases in savings.
18.   Armenia has had some success in attracting foreign savings. Humanitarian aid flows
have been substantial, as has adjustment financing, but these aid flows are not sustainable
indefinitely. Foreign private flows, whether through loans or direct investment, can only be
expected to become substantial once the economic recovery and restructuring are more



5
advanced, and there is greater regional stability (although there is some potential for
relatively early investment from the Armenian diaspora).
19.   Increasing domestic savings, therefore, must be a central component of Armenia's
economic strategy. The economic crisis has generated substantial dissaving, both public and
private, in an attempt to avoid a total collapse of consumption. However, since early i994,
the stabilization and structural reform program has begun the process of increasing public
savings through a reduction of the budget deficit and stimulating private saving by hardening
budget constraints for loss-making enterprises. The key challenge today is to consolidate and
deepen this process.
20.   At the core of meeting this challenge will be a radical restructuring of the role of the
state in Armenia. The Government has begun the process of reorienting the state away from
the direct management of production and provision of generalized producer and consumer
subsidies towards support for private sector development and a targeting of social
expenditures to the poorest. Extending this process will require a profound restructuring of
fiscal expenditures and measures to promote increased financial discipline of enterprises.
21.   Efficiency gains will need to be made in key fiscal areas: public employment policy,
the delivery of health and education services, and the provision of social assistance, while
revenue mobilization will need to be increased. At the same time, enterprise budget
constraints will need to be hardened in order to generate a supply response to new market
conditions and to mitigate the risk that loss-making enterprises will undermine fiscal
adjustment through pressure for subsidies. This will require that a range of interrelated
measures be taken to enhance financial discipline of enterprises through privatization, -
financial sector reform, external trade liberalization, energy sector reform and enforcement
of creditors' rights.
D.   Macroeconomic Prospects
22.   Growth prospects.  Output is projected to continue to grow after strong performance
in 1994 and 1995, as the reform program deepens and as regional tensions ease (which will
remove constraints on external trade, sharply decrease transport and energy costs and
enhance access to external financing). During the past 12-18 months, Armenia's isolation
has been significantly lessened by inter alia greater stability in Georgia, increased access to
supplies in Iran, the commencement of passenger transport between Turkey and Armenia, the
opening of an air corridor across Turkey, and greatly increased informal trade at the
crossroads market between Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia (Sadakhlo). It is expected that
multilateral and bilateral negotiations will lead to a further easing in the near future; this
could come, for example, by a reopening of the railroads through Abkhazia to Russia or
through Nakhichevan to the Persian Gulf, by an opening of the Turkish border to trade, or
by the reopening of the Azerbaijani border. Detailed medium-term projections based on an



6
easing of regional tensions and the sustained implementation of a stabilization and structural
reform program are presented in Annex 1.
23.   Annual GDP growth of 6-7 percent is projected over the period 1996-2005. In early
years, these high levels of GDP growth will result primarily from higher capacity utilization
(currently estimated at about 30 percent) and rapid private sector development. It should be
noted that a substantial proportion of existing capacity may no longer be serviceable or may
be for products for which markets have disappeared; however, high growth in output remains
possible in the initial period given the very low levels of capacity utilization. Growth is
expected to be led by export demand both in FSU markets, as those economies recover, and
by increasing penetration of non-traditional markets, such as the Middle East and Europe.
Export growth (in volume terms) of 11 percent in 1996 and 20 percent in 1997 is projected
following the easing of regional tensions expected during 1996 falling to 7 percent by 2005.
24.    Export growth and diversification will be stimulated by the improvement in the
incentives framework induced by the reform program; in particular, average productivity is
expected to increase substantially as the role of the private sector is enlarged and as greater
financial discipline is imposed, particularly on the public sector. Infrastructure investments
designed to overcome Armenia's poor transport and communications connections with
neighboring countries will significantly facilitate growth in external trade. Export growth is
expected to come primarily from light industry and services and, to a lesser extent, from
agroprocessing;l the importance of heavy industry is likely to continue to diminish as
compared to its traditional role due to the increased real price of energy and other inputs.
The satisfaction of the previously repressed demand for services in the domestic market is
also likely to make a major contribution to growth.
25.   Real incomes are projected to rise through GDP growth and through an appreciation
of the real exchange rate. This appreciation is expected to occur as macroeconomic
stabilization induces reverse currency substitution and the return of flight capital. A real
appreciation is consistent with an expansion of exports because many of the structural
impediments currently increasing the cost of exports are expected to be removed (principally
the blockade and public sector inefficiencies). As incomes rise and incentives to save are
improved (by the reduction in inflationary expectations and by enhanced confidence and
competition in the financial sector), private savings will progressively recover (after years of
substantial dissaving); this will be accompanied by an increase in public savings as fiscal
deficits are reduced.
1/     As an example of a subsector with potential for expansion, Armenia has already developed a large
jewelry industry in which high value production mitigates the current transport cost disadvantage, and low
energy intensity reduces the significance of Armenia's high energy costs. Armenia has also developed a
significant software industry benefitting from its abundant technical skills. The high-quality construction
materials industry remains constrained by transport costs but could be expected to regain markets once transport
costs fall.



7
26.   Investment in new capacity will play an increasing role in generating growth as the
potential for increased capacity utilization is gradually exhausted. This will occur as private
sector confidence, both domestic and foreign (including from the Armenian diaspora),
responds to the improved investment climate, and as the financial sector plays a more
effective role in channeling savings into investment. The reduction in the overall fiscal
deficit (from 16.4 percent of GDP in 1994 to a deficit of 2.7 percent by 2005) will release
substantial resources to the private sector. Tax revenue to GDP rises from 12.3 percent to
18.8 percent over the 1996-2005 period, and expenditure to GDP falls from 23.8 to 22.6
percent (with a rising proportion of capital expenditure). Public investment will increase as
accumulated infrastructure rehabilitation needs are large; however, at the same time public
investment will be reoriented away from direct production to playing a role complementary
to private sector development.
27.   External Financing, Debt and Creditworthiness. Armenia will require substantial
external capital inflows to finance its transition to a market economy and the alleviation of
poverty. Rapid export growth and an improvement in the terms of trade as the regional
situation improves will do much to redress the initial external imbalances.
28.   Substantial financing requirements to cover current account deficits, debt amortization
and modest reserve accumulation are projected for the medium term. However, on the basis
of current projections, debt indicators remain moderate over the period with the debt service-
to-export ratio declining from 18 percent in 1996 to 15.4 percent in 2005. In 1995, debt
service is projected at 19.7 percent of exports; this high level is due almost entirely to the
repayment due on a European Union (EU) credit contracted three years earlier and repayable
in one tranche. The debt service-to-export ratio in 1996 reflects a similar bullet repayment
due on a second EU credit. The ratios excluding these two bullet repayments would be 3.1
percent and 10.4 percent in 1995 and 1996 respectively. During the 1996-2005 period'debt-
to-export ratios range between 103.6 percent to 178.9 percent and debt-to-GDP ratios from
22 percent to 38 percent. Although domestic savings are restored to positive levels only by
1999 and the share of preferred creditors in total debt service is high, the capacity to service
external debt is significantly enhanced by the high degree of average concessionality of
external financing and the initial stock of debt. Armenia inherited no debt on the break-up of
the Soviet Union by agreeing to the "zero option" (whereby Russia assumed Armenia's share
of the external assets and liabilities of the Soviet Union).
29.   Since Armenia will only achieve full commercial creditworthiness over time, the bulk
of external resources would have to come from official sources in the medium terni. In the
near term, the substantial humanitarian aid Armenia has been receiving on a grant basis is
expected to be replaced progressively by official lending (partly on concessional terms). As
confidence in the Armenian economy grows, and the external position strengthens, the weight
of official sources in the financing package should gradually diminish. Financing from



8
foreign private credit and direct investment (particularly from the Armenian diaspora) is
expected to become more important.2
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM OF STABILIZATION AND
STRUCTURAL REFORM
A.    Stabilization
30.   The Armenian authorities initiated their stabilization program in the Spring of 1994
without significant external financial support, due to the constraints on such support that were
imposed by the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict at that time. However, the early successes of
that program and the formalization of the ceasefire in July 1994 allowed approval of a
Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) in December 1994. This was followed in June 1995
by the approval of a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA). The first purchase under the STF
approved on December 14, 1994 was for SDR 16.875 million (equivalent to 25 percent of
Armenia's IMF quota). The SBA approved on June 28, 1995 was for SDR 43.875 million
(65 percent of quota) over a program period of June 1995 - June 1996, and was accompanied
by a second purchase of SDR 16.875 million under the STF. An ESAF is now under
preparation (Board presentation is scheduled for February 1996). The ESAF is intended to
achieve greater integration of stabilization and structural reform policies than previous
arrangements through programming over the medium term (1996-98).
31.   The stabilization program is an ambitious one. It reduced inflation (on an end-period
basis) to 26 percent in 1995 (from 1,885 percent in 1994), and aims to reduce it further to
below 20 percent in 1996. At the core of the program is sharp fiscal adjustment and tight
credit conditions to restrain monetary expansion. The fiscal deficit declined to 8.7 percent of
GDP in 1995 (after 48.2 percent in 1993 and 16.4 percent in 1994) and is targeted to fall to
7.6 percent in 1996.3 The deficit will be financed largely from external sources (and to the
extent possible from domestic bond sales) to avoid recourse to inflationary bank financing.
Deficit reduction will be achieved through a combination of reduction in recurrent
2/     The Armenian diaspora is estimated at approximately 4 million people (outside of Armenia), of whom
about 1 million in the United States, and substantial numbers in France, the Middle East, and the former Soviet
Union.
3/     These deficits are on a quasi-accrual basis; expenditures reflect commitments, although revenues reflect
only actual receipts. The fiscal deficit on a cash basis in 1995 was 10.9 percent of GDP - the difference
reflecting the elimination of expenditure arrears accrued in previous years (all these arrears were domestic). In
1996, the cash and accrual defici tare expected to be the same reflecting the full clearance of arrears in 1995.



9
expenditure, increased reliance on consumption taxes, and improved tax and customs
administration.4
32.   The Central Bank maintains interest rates at levels it judges to be consistent with the
inflation-reduction objective through the auctioning of refinancing credit to the commercial
banks rather than through direct controls (in the fall of 1995 the auction interest rate was 60-
80 percent per annum). High interest rates, along with increasing confidence in the dram
and some Central Bank sales in the foreign exchange market, also appear to have contributed
to the broad stability of the exchange rate experienced since the Spring of 1994. Since.
inflation has remained above the average level of Armenia's trading partners during this
period, this nominal stability has entailed a sharp real appreciation (the real effective
exchange rate is estimated to have appreciated by 90 percent in the 12 months to December
1995). However, purchasing power parity estimates suggest that the currency may still be
substantially undervalued and that further appreciation would not necessarily give rise to
competitiveness concerns. Average wages in the state-owned enterprise sector were only
about US$25 per month in mid-1995 and 1994 GDP per capita was only US$176 when
valued at the prevailing market exchange rate. This contrasts with per capita GDP of
US$670 when measured using the Atlas methodology which compensates for differences
between market exchange rates and rates which better reflect purchasing power parity.
B.    Structural Reform - the Achievements Thus Far
33.   At Independence in 1991, the Government of Armenia initiated a comprehensive
structural reform program. Prices of most goods and services were liberalized in January
1992. The collective farm system was quickly broken up and land was privatized to small-
holders (87 percent of agricultural land is now privately owned). In parallel, privatization of
small enterprises began: 335 enterprises, mainly shops, had been privatized by mid-1992,
although the legal basis for this was not yet fully developed.
34.   These early successes could not immediately be consolidated due to the siege
conditions imposed by war and blockade. However, with the easing of the conflict and the
development of alternative trade routes, the Government was able to reinvigorate the
structural reform program in early 1994. The first objective was to promote a stable
economic environment, to allow producers and consumers to operate without having to fear
a resurgence of inflation. To achieve this objective, the Government implemented tight fiscal
and monetary policies, as well as wage restraint. A second key objective was to improve the
allocation of resources through macroeconomic stability and the promotion of competitive
markets. Policy measures to that effect included: liberalization of prices (in particular, in the
energy sector) and of foreign trade and exchange; and the removal of undue restrictions on
the emerging private sector. The third objective was to accelerate ownership change through
privatization and to harden budget constraints on enterprises to encourage them to respond to
4/   Improvements in tax and customs administration will be supported by the Institution Building Loan and
the SATAC.



10
the new market forces. The final objective was to improve targeting of the safety net, to
protect the sections of the population most affected by the removal of general subsidies and
to allow the recovery to be socially sustainable.
35.    During the second half of 1994, there was intensive dialogue between the authorities
and the Bank on the design of a structural reform program. This culminated in the
preparation of a Letter of Development Policy (LDP) and the approval of a Rehabilitation
Credit (Credit No. 2683-AM) by IDA in February 1995 to support implementation of the
LDP. The LDP included policies that: (a) promoted the development of competitive markets
and of the private sector, through privatization, liberalization and regulatory reform; (b)
enhanced financial discipline for enterprises and banks; and (c) improved the targeting of the
social safety net to the most needy.
36.    Prior to Board presentation of the Rehabilitation Credit measures were taken to: (i)
accelerate small scale privatization; (ii) complete the legal framework for the
commencement of medium- to large-scale privatization; (iii) monitor enterprise arrears; (iv)
facilitate enterprise asset sales; (v) remove a range of export restrictions5; (vi) restrict
interstate barter clearing agreements concluded for 1995 to imports of only natural gas, crude
oil and mazout; and (vii) initiate pension reform to effect a phased increase in the retirement
age and to flatten the structure of pensions. The holding of the first privatization auction for
medium- to large-scale enterprises (which opened on March 1, 1995) was a condition of
effectiveness of the credit.
37.   Implementation of the program during 1995 has been generally strong, with major
achievements in the privatization of small-scale enterprises and of housing, the elimination of
consumer subsidies (with targeted compensation) and establishment of a legal framework to
support private sector development. Privatization of medium- to large scale enterprises has
been slower than expected due primarily to the complexity of the approvals process6 and
inexperience of the staff involved, but the process now has substantial momentum. The pace
of privatization over the last few months has been good and should be sustained throughout
1996.
38.   More specifically, the progress on the measures contained in the LDP (which covered
the period from March through December 1995) is as follows:
5!     The restrictions abolished included: export licensing (except for those on health and environmental
grounds); export tax on goods invoiced below reference prices (i.e. the use of minimum reference prices was
discontinued), except for metals and scrap metal (for which reference prices were abolished at end-1995); all
prohibitions affecting inter-enterprise barter transactions; and the 25 percent mandatory prepayment for private
sector exports.
6/     This complexity is in response to the collapse under the weight of corruption allegations of the first
attempt at privatization in 1991/2.



11
Price Liberalization
*      Subsidies on bread, municipal electric transport and garbage removal and the cross-
subsidies on water and sewerage have been eliminated. The subsidies on district
heating and hot water (the only remaining consumer subsidies) remain under review.
In the case of district heating, which less than one-third of households actually
receive, the issue of provision of targeted heating subsidies to vulnerable groups will
be resolved as part of the overall reform of social assistance. All administered prices
have been adjusted on a regular basis to maintain their real value.'
Energy Sector Pricing and Payments
*      Average electricity tariffs have increased by 25 percent in real terms during 1995
although they do not yet cover operational and maintenance (O&M) costs.
Enforcement of payments for electricity consumption has improved (collections from
the productive and budgetary ssctors having risen from 62 percent of consumption in
1994 to 70 percent in the first nine months of 1995 and for households from 10
percent to 33 percent over the same period). A mechanism for collective payment by
the residents of apartment buildings and villages has been instituted on a pilot basis.
Under this mechanism, buildings or villages are guaranteed at least 10-12 hours of
electricity a day (instead of the normal 2-4 hours per day) if they pay their electricity
bills collectively (in part through prepayment). Failure to make the collective
payment results in all residents of that building or village being disconnected.
Reform of the External Trade and Payments Regime
*      Clearing trade now plays a smaller role in external trade, with the discontinuation of
the arrangement with Russia in early 1995. However, the arrangement with
Turkmenistan for natural gas imports remains in force; participation by enterprises in
the interstate barter arrangements is now voluntary, although some evidence of moral
suasion exists. Moreover, although Armcontract's and Armturtrade's procurement
prices are freely negotiable there are still implicit taxes and subsidies to enterprises
involved in clearing trade, particularly through the accumulation of payment arrears.8
7/     Prices of electricity, drinking water, irrigation, urban transport, telephone services, garbage removal,
sewerage, hot water, gas, and heating remain administered (since they are all supplied by state-owned
monopolies) as does rent in state-owned housing. The only remaining direct price control is on flour (through
the setting of maximum profit margins for flour mills).
8/     In early 1995, Armcontract's responsibility for the clearing trade with Turkmenistan was taken over by
the newly-created Armturtrade (under the Ministry of Energy). Armcontract remained under the Ministry of
Material Resources (which was merged with the Ministry of Trade in July 1995). Both Armcontract and
Armturtade are state-owned trading companies.



12
*     The surrender requirement of 30 percent of foreign exchange earnings by exporters
was eliminated in April 1995.
Private Enterprise Development
*     A real property code which clarifies the legal framework for private property sales
(left unclear by the rapid land privatization of 1991/2) has been adopted and a new
companies code has been submitted to Parliament. In order to provide increased
security for contracts (in particular bank lending), a law on collateral was adopted by
Parliament in June 1995; to facilitate closure, a bankruptcy law was adopted by
Parliament at the same time. An anti-monopoly law has been prepared but the need
for such a broad-based law is currently under review within the Government.9
Privatization
*     Privatization of small-scale enterprises is well underway -- by end December 1995,
1812 small enterprises had been privatized (although achievement of the end-1995
target of 3,000 small enterprises privatized will be delayed until early 1996).
*     Privatization of medium- to large-scale enterprises is also well underway (although the
ambitious end-1995 target of 900 enterprises privatized will be achievable only in
1996). The first public subscription for ten enterprises was opened on March 1; 1995
and closed two months later with all enterprises sold. By end December, 355
enterprises had been offered for sale (such an offering being the criterion of progress
stipulated in the LDP). The majority were offered by public subscription; some were
sold directly to their employees (mainly enterprises which had previously been leased
by the employees) and a few were sold by auction. In addition, twelve enterprises
have been selected for sale by tender to strategic investors and recruitment of an
investment bank to handle this process is underway.
Financial Discipline
*     Eleven highly-indebted enterprises have been placed in an enterprise restructuring
program. This is designed to operate as a pilot bankruptcy program in which the
modalities of debtor reorganization and liquidation, as well as the willingness of the
Government to see bankruptcy procedures initiated for state-owned enterprises, will
be demonstrated.
2/    Key anti-monopoly issues will be addressed in the legal framework pertaining to natural monopolies
(including the energy law currently under preparation); this approach may be sufficient in view of the limited
role played by monopolies in Armenia.



13
Financial Sector
*     Considerable progress was made in 1995 in strengthening the legal and regulatory
arrangements for banks and in defining the supervisory role and functions of the
CBA. Measures taken include: introduction of guidelines for aggregate limits on
large exposures, for lending to shareholders, and for foreign exchange exposure;
increase in minimum capital requirements for banks (to US$100,000 equivalent); and
a complete portfolio review of all the banks (to be completed by early April 1996).
These measures led to the much-needed closure of some of the weakest banks (26
banks have closed siilce March 1994), thus initiating the process of consolidation of
the banking sector. However, the Savings Bank is not yet in compliance with capital
adequacy and other prudential regulations and will be subject to restructuring.
Social Assistance
*     Compensation for the increases in the prices of bread and electricity, which took place
as generalized subsidies were eliminated, was effected through those cash transfers
which were judged to reflect categories of the most needy: children, the unemployed,
and pensioners dependent on administered incomes. The Government increased child
allowances, unemployment benefit, pensions (and wages to lower-paid employees in
the budgetary sphere) by an amount calculated to reflect the incremental cost of a
lifeline consumption of bread and electricity. Those registered as unemployed but
who have exceeded the 6-month eligibility period for unemployment benefit received
essential foodstuffs through humanitarian aid programs. Legislation has been
submitted to Parliament to allow cash payments to this group to replace the food
program.
Labor Market
3     Housing privatization is essential to stimulate labor mobility and about 60 percent of
the formerly state-owned housing stock has now been privatized. A Government
Decision on Condominiums was adopted in May 1995 to make provision for
maintenance of common areas in apartment buildings; this should help accelerate the
housing privatization process. In addition, rents in state-owned housing were raised
at end-1995 to accelerate the privatization process.'°
10/   There are no legal restrictions on labor mobility, propiska (the requirement to receive the authorities'
approval before changing residence) having been abolished in October 1993. Wages have remained free of
controls (although wages in state-owned enterprises are deductible for profits tax purposes only up to an amount
equivalent to 10 times the legal minimum wage).



14
C.    Structural Reform - the Agenda Ahead
39.   The primary objective of the next phase of structural reform, to be supported by the
proposed SAC, is to continue reorienting the state away from direct management of the
economy. The emphasis of government policy will be on creating the conditions for the
private sector to be the engine of growth in Armenia, while providing adequate provision of
social services and protection for the most vulnerable groups in society.
40.   The reform strategy rests on two pillars. The first is greater financial discipline for
enterprises, to stimulate their adjustment to new market conditions thereby promoting
competitiveness and efficiency in the economy. As a first step the Government initially cut
direct subsidies to the enterprise sector. However, enterprises responded to this hardening of
their budget constraints through the accumulation of arrears (primarily to the energy sector).
Clearing trade with Turkmenistan and a weak credit appraisal ability of the financial sector
further undermined the efforts to establish financial discipline. At this stage the
Government's goal is to eliminate these sources of financial indiscipline, by reforming the
energy sector, strengthening the banking system and accelerating ownership change.
41.   The second pillar of the reform strategy is improved efficiency of public spending, to
allow for higher public savings and a more effective delivery of key government services.
This will require a profound fiscal restructuring, most importantly a reorientation of
expenditures toward essential public functions. In 1996, the Government's program in this
area will focus on three issues: improving the targeting of social assistance; initiating
reforms in health and education; and reforming public administration.
42.   The Government's structural reform program is outlined in the attached Letter of
Development Policy (Annex 5). Preparation of the program has involved considerable public
information and consultation, particularly in the areas of electricity tariff reform and
payments discipline, social safety net targeting, and privatization. The Government intends
to publish the Letter of Development Policy.
(a)    Financial Discipline of Enterprises
Energy Sector Policy
43.   The reform of energv sector policy and institutions has a key role to play in the
restructuring of the Armer  i economy. Arrears to Armenergo, the electricity utility, from
enterprises and budgetary u.ganizations are ap- -dimately equivalent in size to outstanding
credit from the banking system and are a major source of financial indiscipline in the
enterprise sector. Tariffs do not yet reflect full costs despite substantial increases. The
terms of trade shock consequent on FSU energy prices rising to world levels and on the
incremental costs imposed by the blockade has not been fully passed through to users thereby
impeding enterprise adjustment. Correspondingly the poor financial condition of energy
utilities has led to severe asset depletion and declining service quality.



15
44.   The Government has therefore initiated a fundamental reform of the sector. During
1996, electricity tariffs will be raised in stages until full cost recovery is reached. Cash
transfers compensating targeted groups for the electricity tariff increase will replace the
current scheme of providing a 50 percent rebate to certain categories of consumers.
45.   Collections targets of 75 percent of supply have been established for end-1996 to
reduce the very high level of non-payment (collections for the first nine months of 1995 were
only 53 percent of supply). Pursuit of these targets will make a major contribution to
tightening financial discipline in the enterprise sector. In addition, utility losses will be
minimized by restricting the number of organizations whose electricity supply cannot be
terminated and strictly limiting the quantity of electricity that can be supplied to them in case
of non-payment. Only drinking water supply and the Nairit Chemical Company will be
included in this list."1 For each such organization, the Goverrnent will settle unpaid bills
within 30 days. Electricity supply to all other entities will be terminated for non-payment.
46.   Armenergo will be restructured by separating the regional distribution companies
from the generation and transmission entity, and a plan for the privatization of generation
will be prepared. For Armgas (the gas utility), the core functions of gas storage,
transportation and distribution will be separated from non-core service functions; a plan for
the privatization of Armgas will be prepared. An Energy Law will be adopted to (i) allow
commercial independence and privatization of sector corporations; (ii) facilitate private
investment in the sector; and (iii) define the roles of the Government and of an independent
regulator.
Trade Policy and Enterprise Adjustment
47.   In 1994, approximately 47 percent of Armenia's exports and 25 percent of its imports
took place within the framework of bilateral interstate agreements with Turkmenistan and
Russia, known as "clearing trade". These agreements provide for Armenia to barter mainly
light industrial products for energy (natural gas from Turkmenistan and oil products from
Russia). The agreement with Turkmenistan also includes some payments in hard currency.
The implementation of the agreement with Russia was discontinued in early 1995.
48.   The clearing trade with Turkmenistan represents a major impediment to enterprise
adjustment in Armenia, severely undermines restructuring of the energy sector, and retards
fiscal adjustment. In essence, enterprises providing goods for export in exchange for natural
gas receive implicit subsidies in the form of lax enforcemem of electricity and tax debts.12 In
turn, Armenergo does not pay in full for the natural gas it uses to generate the electricity,
11/    Nairit Chemical Company is in a care and maintenance program pending privatization or liquidation
under the enterprise restructuring program.
12/   35 enterprises participated in the clearing trade with Turkmenistan in 1995, all of which are large and
the majority of which are state-owned.



16
Armgas does not pay all its debts to Armturtrade (the intermediary) for the goods used in
barter for the gas, and Armturtrade does not pay its debts in full to the enterprises producing
those goods (who therefore accumulate electricity and tax arrears). Until mid-1994, Armenia
did not accumulate significant external arrears for gas supplies, but by end-October 1995
owed US$46.4 million to Turkmenistan. US$13.1 million of this amount represented late
shipments of goods in barter exchange for gas; negotiations to regularize the remaining
US$33.3 million cash arrears into scheduled debt are currently underway.
49.   Clearing trade arrangements represent a non-transparent system of subsidies to, and
taxes on, the enterprise sector. For some enterprises a net subsidy is provided while others
are taxed on a net basis. It is probable that the most efficient enterprises are taxed more than
they are subsidized since they are most able to pay their electricity and tax bills yet often do
not receive payment for goods they supply. These arrangements were created in a siege
economy to achieve energy security and to maintain employment. Their removal would
force subsidized enterprises to adjust to world market conditions and would eliminate the
implicit tax on certain exports.
50.   In consequence, the Government has decided to eliminate the state's role in the trade
arrangements with Turkmenistan; responsibility for gas import purchase has been transferred
from the state trading enterprise, Armturtrade, to the gas utility, Armgas, and the
Government will no longer extend guarantees for gas purchases. Moreover, financial
discipline will be imposed on both external gas purchase and domestic purchase of goods to
barter for gas. This will be achieved by the creation of a separate account for gas purchase.
The account's only sources of funding would be: (i) payments by customers for purchase of
gas; (ii) sale of assets of Armgas; and (iii) credit and credit guaranteed by Government. A
limit of US$ 6 million has been imposed on Government credit to this account outstanding at
any given point in time. Start-up funds for the account have been provided from a short-
term Government credit. Armgas will be allowed to purchase gas only in so far as it can
pay for it from the account. If Armgas chooses to purchase gas with goods, these goods
must be paid from the account on a cash basis.
51.   In addition, the Government will remain committed to a low level of protection for
domestic producers; the new import tariff introduced in late 1995 incorporates only two
rates: zero and 10 percent (down from a maximum rate of 50 percent in the previous tariff).
Protectionist pressures may emerge inter alia as regional transport routes reopen, the real
exchange rate appreciates, energy prices rise, and the effect of subsidy elimination is felt by
enterprises. However, the Government is committed to keeping import tariffs below 15
percent in 1996. It is also committed to early accession to the World Trade Organization
and intends to bind its tariff at 15 percent.



17
Enterprise Privatization
52.   The Privatization Program adopted in January 1994 envisaged that privatization would
take three years, with one third of state-owned productive assets being privatized each year,
although this has proved to be overambitious. Privatization is seen by the Government as
essential to accelerating enterprise adjustment, depoliticizing corporate governance and
reducing the pressure for subsidies. At the beginning of the program, the state owned an
estimated 5,000 small enterprises and about 2,000 medium- to large-enterprises. All but a
small number of enterprises, including power generation, railroads, pipelines, and television,
are to be privatized. Since implementation of the program did not start until late 1994,
privatization can be expected to run through at least end-1997.
53.   The Privatization Program for 1996 is currently under preparation and will employ
the same privatization methods as already utilized. Most privatizations will thus continue to
take place through public subscriptions in which cash or vouchers can be used, and in which
the Government offers all of the shares which it currently owns."3 Of these shares, eighty
percent are offered to the public by subscription and the remaining 20 percent to the
employees."4 The only restriction in the subscription process is that at least 25 percent of
the shares offered have to be subscribed for'5, otherwise the subscription is cancelled and the
enterprise is put up for sale again (at a different nominal share price or through a different
privatization method). In practice, few subscriptions have needed to be cancelled (only 12 of
the 355 enterprises offered for sale by end-December 1995 failed to be sold because of the
25 percent rule). In addition, some enterprises will be sold by tender to strategic investors,
by closed subscription to employees (primarily ones that are currently leased to the
employees), or by auction of packages of shares (to promote concentration of ownership).
The 1996 Program will include (i) all remaining small enterprises by end-1996; (ii) the
remainder of the 900 medium- to large-scale enterprises initially scheduled for 1995 plus a
further 650 enterprises; and (iii) the remainder of the 600 construction sites initially
scheduled for 1995.
54.   Two significant amendments to the Privatization Law were made in late 1995. The
Law was amended to establish a one month time limit for: (a) initiation of second-stage and
third-stage actions after an enterprise has failed to be sold in a first or second attempt
13/   In the case of manufacturing enterprises (which represent about 1100 of the 2,000 mediumllarge
enterprises owned by the state), the Government gave 20 percent of its shares free of charge to the employees
of those enterprises in late-1994/early-1995.
14/    The employees pay for their shares the lower of the book value of the assets and the price determined
by the subscription process. In the case of manufacturing enterprises, employees therefore can accumulaite 20
percent of the shares free and another 16 percent (i.e. 20 percent of the shares remaining with the Government
after the free distribution) at a preferential price.
15/    This implies that in any given subscription the company cannot be sold for less than 25 percent of the
asking price.



18
respectively; and (b) mandatory liquidation, for cash only, for enterprises that are not sold
after a third attempt. The Law was also amended to give the Government discretion in the
method used in complex privatizations (such as utility corporations) and to allow enterprises
to be sold to strategic investors for money only (i.e to exclude the use of vouchers). This
latter amendment is viewed by the Government as essential to the promotion of the role of
foreign investors in the privatization process.
Enterprise Restructuring and Bankruptcy
55.   In order to promote the process of enterprise restructuring, a bankruptcy law was
adopted by Parliament in June 1995. However, this law contains serious flaws: it does not
adequately provide for reorganizations nor is the location of judicial authority to administer
the law made sufficiently clear. A revised bankruptcy law will be adopted in 1996.
56.   However, even if the legal framework for bankruptcy is improved, the necessary
institution building in the judiciary to implement the law will take some time. The judiciary
has almost no experience in any area of commercial law. 16 Moreover, after a long history of
state control, creditors can be expected to be reluctant to initiate proceedings under the
bankruptcy law without a clear signal from Government that bankruptcies are acceptable.
57.   In view of these considerations, and against a background of high levels of losses and
overdue debts by enterprises, the Government has initiated an enterprise restructuring
program. Eleven critical financially-distressed enterprises have been placed in this program,
which replicates a bankruptcy process: enterprises will either be reorganized and privatized
or will be liquidated. The eleven enterprises will first be offered for sale; only those which
fail to be privatized at the first attempt will be either reorganized (prior to a second attempt
at privatization) or put into liquidation.
58.   For each of the enterprises to be reorganized, a creditors' committee will be
established. The committee will be composed of three persons representing the three largest
creditors (or if a bank is not represented, the two largest creditors and a representative of the
largest creditor bank). The committee will appoint an administrator for a maximum term of
one year to reorganize the enterprise and privatize and/or liquidate all of its assets, in
accordance with his or her determination of the best way to achieve the greatest amount of
resources in the interests of the creditors. Reorganization measures could include divesting
underutilized assets, reducing employment, developing new marketing strategies, taking steps
to reduce excessive levels of accounts receivable, and improving management control by
organizational changes. Such reorganization would not involve new investment or working
capital from the Government budget. Reorganization plans have already been developed with
technical assistance for ten of the enterprises. The administrators will report to the
16/   Training of judges and other bankruptcy practitioners will be provided under the SATAC.



19
creditors' committees and will be supported by technical assistance financed by the Institution
Building Loan and by the proposed SATAC.
Financial Sector Reform
59.      In the early 1990s the Armenian banking system became highly marginal to real
economic activity.17 A high proportion of the lending portfolio is non-performing, almost all
credit provided is very short term, and savers have very little confidence in the banking
system as a place to hold deposits. In short, the banking system is unable to fulfil its role of
mobilizing savings and channeling them into productive investment. In addition, the
financial weakness of the banks imposes a significant risk of an eventual call on scarce fiscal
resources for a bail-out.
60.   The Government and the Central Bank have developed a two-dimensional strategy to
strengthen the banking sector. In the short term, the goals are to avert a banking crisis and
to address the immediate difficulties faced by many banks. A guiding principle in solving
these short-term problems will be to differentiate between viable and non-viable banks, to
ensure that the former are strengthened and that the latter are restructured in an efficient
manner or liquidated. Over the medium term, the aim is to put in place an appropriate legal
and regulatory framework for banks to operate in. Ultimately, this strategy will allow for an
increasing proportion of the economy's scarce savings to be channeled through the stronger
banks, and will contribute to improving the volume and quality of services provided by the
banking sector.
61.   In dealing with the short-term needs of the sector, actions will focus on determining
the true state of bank portfolios and on curbing the activities of those banks that are in
difficulties. To this end the CBA will first complete audits of all the country's banks (using
the assistance of experienced central bank examiners as advisors) to check the quality of bank
portfolios and of bank management systems. Although the audits are likely to confirm the
serious degradation of bank portfolios, it is expected that some banks will be shown to be
solvent and viable. The Government and the CBA will establish pilot work-out units in two
of the stronger banks (with technical assistance under the proposed SATAC) to test out the
provisions of the Bankruptcy and Collateral Laws and to begin standard recovery practices.
The technical assistance will be designed such that the lessons learned from the pilot work-out
approach will be disseminated to all the banks. If successful, this approach will be extended
to other banks.
17/  The Armenian banking system currently consists of about 40 banks. This includes (i) four large lending
banks which emerged from the Soviet system (which account for about 70 percent of total loans outstanding
from the banking system and are owned primarily by state-owned enterprises and the Government); (ii) the
Savings Bank (which is Government-owned and is small in asset terms but accounts for 34 percent of total
household deposits and most of the branch network of the banking system), (iii) four foreign-owned banks,
including a subsidiary of Midland Bank; and (iv) about 30 smaller banks (all privately owned).



20
62.   Banks which are demonstrably insolvent will be liquidated. The new Law on Bank
Insolvency will allow for the appointment of a conservator for banks with inadequate capital
and also for the liquidation of banks. To ensure adequate technical capacity to deal with
problem banks, and the restructuring of some of them, a specialized bank resolution unit (to
be supported under the SATAC) will be established in the CBA. This will significantly
enhance the capacity of the CBA to manage the process of banking sector rationalization
without exposing the sector to systemic risk.
63.   Although the above approach will be applied to the majority of banks, the Savings
Bank will receive a different treatment. The Savings Bank is particularly ill-equipped both in
terms of its financial and human capital to operate as a normal bank. Its capital is highly
negative after several years of losses and its lending decisions have frequently proved
disastrous. However, its size makes it unlikely that it will be liquidated. The Government
and the CBA will therefore formulate and implement a restructuring program for the Savings
Bank. This restructuring program will rationalize the number of bank branches and of staff to
reduce operating costs; will strengthen the management and control systems of the bank; and
will open up for competition any activities of the bank. In the interim, the Savings Bank will
be restricted to investments in Government securities and will be prohibited from lending to
enterprises or other banks.
64.   To ensure that a stronger and fully functional banking system emerges over the
medium term, the above measures will be accompanied by others aimed at improving the
legal and regulatory framework. In this regard, the CBA will implement new regulations for
loan classification and loan-loss provisions in order to establish a more accurate measure of
the true capital in each bank. The CBA will also move as rapidly as possible to reform
commercial bank accounting to comply with Internationally-accepted Accounting Standards
(IAS). In particular, a new IAS-compatible format for commercial bank reporting to the CBA
will be designed.
(b)   Improving the Efficiency of Public Spending
Targeting of Social Assistance
65.   Medium-term Evolution of Social Assistance. The long-term objective for social
protection in Armenia would be an incomes-tested poverty benefit (to replace child allowances
and eventually humanitarian aid), coupled with a minimum state pension. However, given
the formidable difficulties that most countries have experienced with incomes-testing
(particularly where there is heavy reliance on informal sector income as in Armenia), the
Government's near-term strategy is to rely primarily on targeting by category, while
experimenting with incomes-based targeting on a modest basis.
66.   Child Allowances. A system of general child allowances naid to each child regardless
of family circumstances was initiated in Armenia in 1991 and became active in 1992; it
constituted the principal mechanism for targeting cash benefits to the working poor. Children



21
aged 0-16 were eligible (18 if still in full-time education). In 1995, child allowances are
expected to account for about 30 percent of social protection expenditures and 5 percent of
total government expenditures. Recent findings suggest that children comprise a large part of
the poor, but that there is not a high correlation between the number of children in a family
and the family being poor.
67.   The Government is committed to refining the child allowance system so that payments
go only to those children most in need. In 1996, child allowances will be restricted to
children aged 0-6 on the grounds that younger children tend to have poorer parents. This will
allow an increase in the child allowance from 750 drams per child per month to 1200 drams.18
Disabled children, children of single mothers, and children in families who have lost one or
both income-earners will also be eligible for child allowances up to the age of 17. The
reform of the child allowance system is expected to reduce the budget for such allowances by
47 percent in 1996 (excluding incremental administrative costs) while allowing for an increase
in the support extended to the neediest families.
68.   Targeting of Humanitarian Assistance. Significant cuts in humanitarian assistance to
Armenia are expected in the medium term. In addition, evidence from a variety of sources
suggests that Armenia has experienced the same difficulties in the distribution of humanitarian
assistance that have occurred in other major aid-recipient countries. Leakage (the payment of
a benefit or in-kind allocation to a non-needy person) has been unacceptably high. The.
Government initiated a pioneering attempt to track and quantify the number of needy through
its Paros program, during which approximately 70 percent of the population registered family
data in a "social passport." This program, known as "Paros" in Armenian (equivalent to
"Beacon" in English), is funded by USAID and seeks to identify appropriate groups for
targeted assistance. This social passport provides valuable data which can be used to better
target the delivery of humanitarian assistance and eventually, may provide a basis for
targeting general cash transfers.
69.   In late 1995 Paros was put into operation to target humanitarian aid. The targeting
criteria consist mainly of categories correlated with poverty in Armenia (e.g. housing
situation, unemployment) but also includes an income component. This component has been
initially weighted at less than 10 percent reflecting the experimental nature of its inclusion.
The results of Paros-based targeting will be reviewed during 1996.
70.   Pension Reform. In 1995, pensions accounted for about 65 percent of social
protection expenditures and about 11 percent of total government expenditures. The new
Pension Law adopted in December 1995 constitutes fundamental reform of the pension
system. The main components of the reform are: gradual increases in the retirement age to
65 years for men and 63 years for women (from 55 and 50 respectively), a reduction of the
18/   In 1995, the system of child allowances was modified to provide higher allowances per child to larger
families. The allowances ranged from 550 drams to 880 drams, with 750 drams as the average allowance paid.
This sliding scale will be abolished in 1996 and replaced by a fixed allowance.



22
number of exemptions granted to various professions for early retirement, and a change in the
benefits formula to reflect years of service (stazh) not earnings. The yearly increments will
be set in such a way as to maintain a fairly flat pension structure. The reform also provides
that the level of pension paid to those who are working past the official retirement age will be
reduced from 100 percent of the standard level to 50 percent. It is intended that private
pensions will supplement the state provision of a basic pension, and a regulatory framework
for private pensions will be developed in 1996.
71.   Unemployment Benefits and Employment Services. The level of open unemployment
is expected to increase during the transitional period, as enterprises adjust to new market
conditions. The state employment service is not organized to cope with such an increase in
job-seekers and will be restructured (with Bank-financed technical assistance). At the same
time, the maximum period of eligibility for unemployment benefit will be extended froin the
current 9 months, which provides an inadequate social safety net, to 12 months. Those whose
unemployment benefit has expired but who have remained unemployed currently receive food
aid. The fiscal impact of extending the eligibility period for unemployment benefits will be
partly offset by the removal of food aid eligibility for those receiving extended benefits.
Health Sector Reform
72.   The health status of the population has deteriorated since the 1988 earthquake and the
economic crisis that followed the break up of the FSU. The adult mortality rate has
worsened, the number of outbreaks in water-borne communicable diseases has increased, and
the nutritional status of some categories of the population, in particular the elderly, has also
worsened. Life expectancy at birth fell from 75.7 for women and 69.8 for men in 1985 to
74.4 and 67.9 respectively in 1993. However the effectiveness of humanitarian aid in the
health sector prevented a major deterioration of the health status of the population and
avoided what could have turned into a major health disaster considering the shortage of
electricity, water and heating. Humanitarian aid to the health sector in 1994 is estimated to
have been equivalent to 70 percent of the budget of the Ministry of Health.
73.   Armenia is experiencing a severe shortage in drugs, medical supplies and equipment.
Facilities are not maintained and informal payments for health service are widespread due to
the extremely low wages of health personnel. At the same time the health care delivery
system is characterized by widely distributed and abundant facilities and hospital beds. The
management system is very centralized and the system is overly oriented towards curative and
hospital care which has resulted in serious inefficiencies. In 1994, the health sector accounted
for 6.6 percent of government expenditure (equivalent to 2.9 percent of GDP).
74.   The Government has defined the basis of a major reform of the health care system
with the objective of improving cost efficiency. The reform includes diversification of the
financing of health care, reorientation of the system towards primary health care, redefinition
of medical education, introduction of a licensing and accreditation process, decentralized
management and financing of the system, and privatization of some facilities. At end-1995, a



23
law defining the organization, financing and delivery of health care services was submitted to
the Parliament and a Government decree was adopted on the licensing system for health care
facilities and doctors.
75.   During 1996 a plan for strengthening primary health care will be prepared including
definition of primary health care programs, the mechanisms for implementation and financing
of these programs, the referral mechanism from primary levels to hospitals and staffing needs
for primary level facilities. In parallel, a program will be prepared to consolidate hospitals by
closing or privatizing some underutilized services and facilities, creating savings of at least 15
percent of the health budget, which will be reallocated to the improvement of the quality of
health care in the 1997 budget. New standards and norms for the distribution of public
facilities will also be adopted.
76.   The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance will prepare a health financing
strategy during 1996, which will include: (a) a Basic Benefit Package to be funded in priority
by the State budget; (b) protocols for treatment for the major diseases and the program to be
covered under the Basic Benefit Package; (c) costing mechanisms for the delivery of health
care services; and (d) program budgeting approach for the financing of health facilities. This
strategy will be incorporated in the 1997 Budget. The Government will identify a transitory
mechanism for providing low cost treatment for the patients who are too poor to afford the
levels of payments which will be established for health care, before health insurance
mechanisms can be established.
Education Sector Reform
77.   Prior to the break up of the Soviet Union, Armenia enjoyed one of the highest levels
of education in the FSU. The education system ranges from pre-school through university,
and enrollment rates at post secondary level compared well to those in Western Europe. For
the past several years, however, the conditions of the educational system have deteriorated
considerably due mainly to constrained budgetary resources. In 1994, the education sector
accounted for about 9 percent of government expenditure (equivalent to 4 percent of GDP).
Teachers are underpaid, books are in very short supply, facilities are not maintained,
laboratory equipment and other equipment are sorely lacking and the best teachers are leaving
the country. This has resulted in an alarming decline in enrollment (from 94 percent of
school-age children in 1986/7 to 79 percent in 1994/5) and a major decline in teaching quality
that will have a serious impact on the future of Armenia, especially as human resources are
one of the country's strongest assets.
78.   In order to stop the deterioration of the system and to adapt it to the needs of the
market economy, the Ministry of Education has initiated a number of reforms around the
following themes: curriculum reform, encouragement of private education, decentralization,
increased cost recovery measures including student payments for textbooks and payments of
fees for university education, and incentives to encourage competition between schools. The



24
Government has already implemented some of the measures in the areas of cost recovery,
definition of new curricula and streamlining of the examination system.
79.   Further reforms will aim to make the education system more responsive to market
demands in a changing environment and to ensure the system's financial viability.
Student/teacher ratios, student/classroom ratios, and geographical distribution of school
facilities are not sustainable under the present fiscal constraints. The student/teacher ratio in
Armenia is about 10 (compared to an OECD average of 25-30) and the student/classroom
ratio is 19.4 (low by Western standards). During 1996, a school mapping exercise will be
completed to identify the status of primary, secondary and technical education facilities. This
is necessary to initiate the school consolidation program which the Government will begin
carrying out in 1996. In parallel, the Ministry of Education will adopt new standards and
norms for physical facilities and teaching numbers at the primary, secondary and technical
education levels in order to make the system more cost-effective. Based on the new standards
and norms, the Government will adopt a consolidation plan for schools which should result in
savings of at least 15 percent of the budget for general education to be reallocated to improve
efficiency of general education. The plan will be implemented with the 1997 budget.
80.   Lack of textbooks is one of the major constraints to the improvement of quality of
Education in Armenia. Based on the textbook study which has been carried out, the Ministry
of Education will prepare a strategy to improve the availability of textbooks for secondary
education, taking into consideration affordability issues for low income groups.
Pay and Employment Reform in the Public Service
81.   Reforms in the public service will play an important part in reorienting the role of the
state, ensuring fiscal discipline and supporting the development of the market economy. The
Government has already initiated three complementary elements of reform, namely measures
to restore public service pay, to rationalize the structure of government and limit budget-
financed employment, and to strengthen the management of the public service.'9
82.   Public service pay has fallen even more sharply than pay in the rest of the economy
and to levels far below a living wage. By mid-1995, budgetary sphere wages averaged US$8
per month (or about 10 percent of their level at the beginning of 1992). In 1995, wage7s
accounted for only 12 percent of the total current expenditure of Government. Average wages
in the budgetary sphere had fallen from about 60 percent of those in the state enterprise sector
to less than 30 percent over the same period. This situation cannot fail to affect the morale
and efficiency of the public service, with officials bound to pursue supplementary incomes
and an exodus of professionals who can command much higher pay in the private sector or
19/   The Armenian public service comprises the executive, legislative and judicial bodies of the
Government, the law enforcement agencies, and the budget-funded social services of Govermment (primarily
health and education). Together these activities are known as the budgetary sphere (in contrast to enterprises
remaining in public ownership, which are supposed to be self-financing).



25
abroad. At the same time, the salary structure has become highly compressed - in 1995, the
basic salary of a minister was only 1.7 times the lowest public service salary. The
Government has initiated a program of staged salary increases, with an element of
decompression, to improve public service pay levels, although it is recognized that this will
take some years to accomplish given the tight fiscal situation. A first step towards
decompression was taken in late 1995 with substantial salary increases for top Governmient
(ministers and above) and Parliamentary officials.
83.   Following the adoption of the new Constitution in July 1995, there has been a
significant consolidation of central government agencies and a new structure of local
government is also being introduced. The Government has recognized that it cannot afford to
maintain budgetary sphere employment at its present levels, and has targeted a reduction of
budget-funded employment from around 400,000 in 1994 to 270,000 by the end of 1998.20
Reduction in budgetary employment will release part of the funding required to restore public
service wage levels. Rationalization of education and health services will play a particularly
important role in achieving this objectives; the health and education sectors account for more
than 55 percent of budgetary sphere employment.
84.   However, the public service reforms initiated to date have been somewhat ad hoc in
nature; in particular the employment targets are not based on a comprehensive analysis of the
skill requirements of a restructured public service. In recognition of the need to adopt a more
strategic focus to public service reform a high-level interministerial committee will be created
to oversee the process. During 1996, a public service review will be carried out under the
overall supervision of this committee. The review will cover: (i) the resource framework for
the public service, reflecting sustainable levels of public expenditure and employment; (ii) the
appropriate long term salary structure for the public service; (iii) the overall functions and
structure of Government and scope for further streamlining and consolidation; (iv) the
respective roles and functions of the key central government agencies and the allocation of
responsibilities between them and relevant sector ministries; (v) the role, functions and
staffing of the proposed Department of Public Service Management in the Office of the
Government and a strategy for capacity building; (vi) personnel information and management
systems for the public service, linked to ongoing efforts to strengthen budgeting and
expenditure management; and (vii) strategies for management of the continuing process of
public service reform.
85.   In parallel with the overall public service review, a series of functional reviews of key
ministries will be undertaken. Each functional review will consider the following: (i) the
appropriate role of Government in the sector and hence the functions the ministry should
perform (taking account of the roles of other government bodies); (ii) how these functions can
20/    Approximately 50 percent of this reduction is expected to come from public servants currently working
beyond the official retirement age. A further 18 percent is projected to come through the removal of health
service employees from the budgetary payroll; a substantial portion of these will continue to be employed by the
health service with their salaries financed by cost-recovery and government fees for services.



26
be most efficiently and effectively performed (e.g. by Government directly, by self-financing
agencies, by contract with the private sector); (iii) how the ministry should therefore be
organized (including which units should be merged or dropped), with mission statements and
job descriptions for continuing activities; (iv) skill requirements and training needs for
ministry staff; and (v) budget projections for the ministry and target number of employees.
The functional reviews will not merely aim at efficiency gains through consolidation of
activities but will radically reappraise the services to be provided by government agencies in a
market economy and will consider decentralized and, where appropriate, more market-oriented
modes of service delivery. The public service and functional reviews will be carried out with
technical assistance financed by the proposed SATAC.
PART III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.    Background and Objectives
86.   A limited country assistance strategy for Armenia was presented to the Board on
February 28, 1995 as part of the President's Report of the Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 2683
AM) and the proposed Credit is consistent with that strategy. The key objectives of the
strategy are to deepen structural reforms to accelerate the transition to a market economy and
to alleviate the large pockets of poverty that have emerged over the last few years. In terms
of structural reforms, emphasis is placed on promoting private sector development and
establishing a targeted system of social protection. Continued tight macroeconomic policies
and more profound structural reforms should lead to the resumption of economic growth and
higher overall living standards. Sector specific interventions, to complement the economy-
wide efforts, focus on the delivery of social services, on energy efficiency, financial sector
strengthening, and on the rehabilitation of other critical infrastructure. A full Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) will be prepared in FY97.
B.    Bank/IDA Assistance to Date
87.   The reform process in Armenia was launched with considerable momentum just after
independence, with strong programs of land and small-scale enterprise privatization. In
response to these early efforts, the Bank quickly prepared a Country Economic Memorandum
(distributed in March 1993) to assist the Government in its policy formulation process.
However, the Bank's early focus on policy reform in its dialogue with Armenia could niot be
sustained due to renewed fighting in Nagorno Karabakh during early 1993. Instead, the
Bank's strategy was limited to supporting the development of market-oriented institutions and
to maintaining the delivery of key infrastructure services to meet basic human needs.
88.   In this context, an Institution Building Loan (Loan 3585-AM) in the amount of US$12
million was approved in March 1993. Under this loan, support for institution-building is
being provided in (i) macroeconomic management; (ii) social safety net and employment
services; (iii) mobilization of fiscal revenue; (iv) enterprise reform, including privatization;



27
and (v) financial sector reform. The Bank Group's first infrastructure operation in the amount
of US$28 million was the Earthquake Reconstruction Credit (Credit 2562-AM; approved in
January 1994). Its objectives are to provide improved housing and living conditions to
victims of the 1988 earthquake through reconstruction of basic infrastructure, which will
support employment creation. A follow-on Municipal Project is planned for FY98 as is a
Health and Education Project.
89.   With the conclusion of a ceasefire and the commencement of peace negotiations over
Nagorno Karabakh in the Spring of 1994, it became possible for the Bank to expand its
lending program. On December 8, 1994, an Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2667-
AM) in the amount of US$43 million and a Power Maintenance Project (Credit 2666-AM) in
the amount of US$13.7 million were approved. With about three quarters of the total
agricultural production dependent on irrigated land, recent degradation in the maintenance of
the irrigation system has jeopardized the recovery of the agriculture sector. The Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project aims at rehabilitating critical parts of the irrigation system; a follow-on
Agricultural Reform Support Project to deepen policy reform in the sector is planned for
FY97. Electricity availability for households has been severely restricted due to shortage of
fuel. Despite low capacity utilization, the degradation of the system has accelerated. The
Power Maintenance Project aims at repairing and restoring six power plants and at
strengthening the electricity distribution system; a follow-on Power Rehabilitation Credit is
planned for FY97.
90.   Moreover, the improvements in the regional political situation allowed the Government
to refocus its attention on macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform. This permitted
the preparation of a Rehabilitation Credit (in parallel to an STF from the IMF) to underpin
the reform program. The Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 2685-AM, approved February 28,
1995) provided US$60 million of quick-disbursing balance of payments support.
Disbursement was very rapid (the credit was fully disbursed by August 1995); implementation
of the policy reforms supported by the credit has been strong.
91.   On September 14, 1995 a Highways Credit (Credit 2776-AM) in the amount of US$16
million to rehabilitate road infrastructure was approved. A Social Investment Fund Project
(Credit 2784-AM) in the amount of US$12 million was approved in November 1995. The
project will fund the rehabilitation of social infrastructure microprojects and is expected to
have a substantial poverty alleviation impact. It includes a US$2 million matching fund
facility to stimulate cofinancing from the NGO community, particularly in the Armenian
diaspora.
92.   An Enterprise Development Project (FY97) to provide post-privatization finance and
technical assistance to the enterprise and financial sectors is under preparation. This project
could include a line of credit and technical assistance for export and investment promotion as
well as financial sector and capital market development. The project is intended to stimulate
a supply response in the private sector and would provide an important complement to the
policy measures envisaged under the proposed SAC.



28
93.   The implementation of the Institution Building Loan was initially slow, due to lack of
experience with projects of this nature in the implementing agencies; also, the difficult
circumstances in the country dimmed the interest of potential suppliers of technical assistance.
Since late 1994, however, implementation has been considerably stronger, reflecting the
improved physical and political circumstances, experience gained in project management, and
renewed momentum in the reform effort; indeed, the availability of Institution Building Loan
funds has proved critical for the implementation of certain elements of the reform program
supported by the Rehabilitation Credit. Based on this positive experience the proposed
SATAC (US$ 3.8 million) has been designed to facilitate the implementation of the reform
program supported by the SAC. The implementation of the Earthquake Reconstruction,
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Power Maintenance projects has been good so far, with
disbursements proceeding according to schedule.
94.  In addition to lending, the Bank has also assisted the Govermnent's policy formulation
process through missions and economic and sector work. Aside from the Country Economic
Memorandum, an Energy Sector Review was distributed in June 1993, an Economic Update
was prepared for the Consultative Group (CG) meeting in November 1994, and an Agriculture
and Food Sector Review was published in May 1995. An informal environmental review was
completed in early 1995. Institutional Development Fund grants to improve public
procurement regulations and practices and to develop an action plan to address the
environmental problems of Lake Sevan are under implementation.
C.   The Lending Program
95.   The Bank Group Assistance Strategy beyond these projects is to support: (i)
stabilization and structural reform with adjustment lending and policy-oriented economic and
sector work (ESW); (ii) energy efficiency, export development, and the rehabilitation of basic
infrastructure with investment lending; and (iii) poverty reduction, both in the design of
lending operations, and through support for the cost-effective delivery of basic social services,
especially for the poor. The Bank is seeking to mobilize adequate financing for Armenia's
development effort by leading donor coordination through the CG process and by promoting
policies to encourage increased foreign direct investment and other equity investments.
96.   The level and composition of the Bank Group's assistance to Armenia will depend on
the maintenance of peace and stability in the region and on the country's performance in
implementing its stabilization and structural adjustment program. Given the uncertainty
surrounding Armenia's macroeconomic prospects, the Bank's country assistance strategy will
be reassessed before IBRD lending is resumed, with particular regard to creditworthiness
considerations. It was assumed in the limited CAS for FY96-98 that strong and continued
progress in stabilization and structural reform would enable a high case program blending
US$120-130 million of IDA funds over the three years and about US$40 million per annum
from IBRD resources if and when IBRD lending resumes. This assumption of strong
stabilization and reform has proved to be justified to date.



29
97.   Continued progress in some areas of reform but slippages in others would justify
moving to a medium case program of US$100-120 million of IDA over the three years and
US$15-20 million of IBRD per annum if IBRD lending resumes. The medium case presented
in the limited CAS assumed sustained small-scale privatization at a minimum and more
effective targeting of the social safety net, while the high case assumed timely implementation
of the privatization program as a whole, the elimination of the state's direct role in trading, as
well as more effective social safety net targeting. In the event of more generalized policy
slippages than are assumed in the medium case, assistance would be reduced to a low case
program of US$50-60 million and limited to a few investment operations on IDA terms only.
98.   The Bank's lending program will continue to be supported by economic and sector
work to provide a basis for policy dialogue and project design. Preparation of the first
Poverty Assessment is well advanced, while a Public Expenditure Review and a Banking
Sector Policy Note have been prepared in parallel to the proposed SAC. Bank support for the
preparation of a National Environmental Action Plan is being provided.
D.   Coordination of External Assistance, MIGA and IFC Activities
99.   To minimize the risk of underfunding of the reform program and to facilitate
coordination of external assistance, the Bank has organized aid coordination meetings for
Armenia. A pre-CG meeting to coordinate technical assistance to Armenia was held in May
1993. A full CG was held on November 22, 1994 to mobilize balance of payments financing
to complement the IDA Rehabilitation Credit and the STF from the IMF. Informal donors'
meetings were held in March and June 1995 to consolidate that support and mobilize
financing in the context of the IMF Stand-By Arrangement (approved by the Executive Board
on June 28, 1995). A second CG meeting is scheduled to be held in during the spring of
1996 to mobilize quick-disbursing funds and investment financing. Total external financing
requirements of about US$366 million are projected for 1996, of which US$193 million is
projected to come from multilateral sources and US$173 million from bilateral donors
(although not all identified financing is fully confirmed).
100.  Extensive consultation has taken place with the IMF on the design of the proposed
SAC. This is being coordinated closely with preparation by the Government of Armenia (in
close collaboration with the Bank and the IMF) of a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) in the
context of provision by the IMF of an ESAF. An ESAF is scheduled for presentation to the
Executive Board of the IMF in February 1996; the PFP, the first for Armenia, will be
distributed to the Board in February.
101. Armenia joined IFC in March 1995 and MIGA in December 1995. IFC has sent three
reconnaissance missions to Armenia so far in 1995 and possible investments are now under
discussion. The potential of such interventions to unlock support from the Armenian diaspora
is substantial.



30
PART IV. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
CREDIT
A.    Program Implementation and Credit Conditions
102.  The Government's structural reform program, to be supported by the proposed SAC
has been outlined above. The program, including timetables for the implementation of
specific measures during the 12 months following Board presentation, is described in the
attached Letter of Development Policy (Annex 5) A task force drawn from the key central
and line agencies, coordinated by the Ministry of Economy, has been established to monitor
implementation of the program.
103.  The measures which were taken by the Government as a result of agreements reached
during preparation of the proposed Credit are:
Energy Sector
(i)  Electricity tariffs covering fully O&M costs for generation, transmission and
distribution, have been publicly announced and will be introduced on April 1,1996.
(ii) The Government has adopted a decree specifying that energy services to budgetary and
non-budgetary entities will be terminated in case of non-payment. The decree provides
for specific cases in which an organization is deemed to be critical and its electricity
cannot be terminated. In such cases, the Government will pay the organization's
electricity bill. The decree listing the organizations to which energy supply cannot be
terminated has been adopted.
(iii) A decree has been issued appointing Armgas as the only state entity authorized to
procure gas and eliminating state guarantees for gas imports. A separate account has
been created for gas purchase, and Armgas can purchase gas only in so far as it can
pay for it from the account.
(iv)  A Decree has been issued specifying that outstanding credits or credit guarantees from
the Government budget to the gas account of Armgas will not exceed the dram
equivalent of US$ 6 million at any time and that Armgas may not undertake
borrowing outside of this arrangement to fund the gas account.
(v)  The Real Property Code has been adopted by Parliament.



31
Privatization
(i)   The Privatization Law has been amended to incorporate: (i) a time limit of 1 month
for initiation of second-stage and third-stage actions for enterprises which do not sell
in previous attempts; and (ii) mandatory liquidation for enterprises that are not sold
after these actions in (i) above. The Privatization Law also now includes the following
provisions: (i) the Government will be able to sell a portion of enterprises for money
alone (rather than money and vouchers); and (ii) the Government can elaborate
privatization methods for complex transactions such as utility corporations.
(ii)  The following privatization targets have been met:
Small enterprises        2000
Medium/large enterprises   400
Construction Sites       10
Enterprise Restructuring
(i)  Eleven highly-indebted enterprises have been placed in an enterprise restructuring
program; the enterprise which was in the 1995 Privatization program has been offered
for sale.
Financial Sector
(i)   The Law on Bank Insolvency has been submitted to Parliament.
(ii)  The Savings Bank has been instructed to halt any new lending to enterprises and to the
interbank market to avoid further risks to depositors' funds pending the finalization of
a detailed restructuring program.
(iii)  The new regulations adopted by the Board of the CBA on loan loss provisioning (with
tax deductibility allowed for loan write-offs) have been adopted by the Ministry of
Finance.
Targeting of Social Assistance
(i)   Child allowances have been restricted in scope and accompanied by an increase in the
level of the allowance.
(ii)  The Pension Law has been adopted by Parliament providing, inter alia, for a phased
increase in the retirement age.



32
104. The adoption by Parliament of the Companies Law and of the 1996 Privatization
Program are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
105.  The proposed specific conditions for second tranche release are:
(i)  Armenergo's total collections for electricity supplied will reach 60 percent of supply
by July 1, 1996 and 75 percent by end-1996.
(ii) The average electricity tariff for each consumer group will cover all O&M costs.
(iii) Satisfactory implementation of the Government's privatization program.
(iv) All eleven enterprises placed in the enterprise restructuring program will have
undergone their final offer for privatization or liquidation will have been initiated.
(v)  Parliamentary adoption of a revised bankruptcy law to provide for debtor
reorganization and of a bank insolvency law which specifies procedures for bank
administration and liquidation.
(vi) Adoption by the CBA and by the Government of a Savings Bank restructuring
program satisfactory to IDA.
(vii) The gas account operated by Armgas for gas purchases will remain current for the full
period leading up to second tranche release. Outstanding gas and goods purchases will
not exceed the cash balance in the account at any point in time.
(viii) The Government will adopt a health financing strategy which will include: (a) a Basic
Benefit Package to be funded in priority by the State budget; (b) protocols for
treatment for the major diseases and the program to be covered under the Basic
Benefit Package; (c) costing mechanisms for the delivery of health care services; and
(d) program budgeting approach for the financing of health facilities.
(ix)  The Government will finalize the school map to identify the status of primary,
secondary and technical education facilities.
B.   The Proposed Project
106.  Credit amount and borrower. The proposed SAC of SDR 40.4 million (equivalent of
US$60 million) would be made to the Republic of Armenia represented by the Ministry of
Finance. Disbursements under the proposed SAC will be made to the CBA, and an account
of the Ministry of Finance at the CBA will be credited with the dram equivalent at the official
exchange rate of the day. (The official exchange rate is defined in Armenia as the rate
determined by the latest auction.) The Government will thereby receive non-inflationary
budget support. The foreign exchange proceeds of the proposed SAC will be sold by the CBA



33
or will be held in reserves, in accordance with the objectives of monetary policy. The
proposed SAC will be released in two tranches: the first on effectiveness and the second on
fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions outlined above, if general progress on
implementation of the LDP (including attainment of its macroeconomic stabilization
objectives) is also satisfactory. The credit would be on standard IDA terms, including a 35
year maturity and a 10 year grace period.
107. Eligible expenditures. The credit would provide quick-disbursing balance of payments
support based on evidence that imports of eligible goods had taken place. Non-eligible
imports would include goods on the World Bank's standard negative list; imports paid for in
the currency of Armenia and imports funded from other medium and long term financing
sources. Retroactive financing of payments made to suppliers not more than four months
before loan signing will be permissible up to a maximum of the SDR 8.08 million (US$12
million) equivalent to 20 percent of the amount of the credit.
108. Project management. Overall coordination of project activities and general loan
administration will be the responsibility of a project manager employed by the Ministry of
Economy within the Aid Coordination and Management Center (ACMC). The project
manager (who is Executive Director of the ACMC and is currently managing implementation
of the Rehabilitation Credit and Institution Building Loan) will be responsible for undertaking
procurement, preparing applications for disbursement, maintaining project accounts and
arranging for their timely audit, and monitoring overall loan implementation. The operating
costs of implementing the project will be funded from the proposed SATAC. On the basis of
the information from the various agencies involved in the implementation of this loan, the
project manager will prepare the Borrower's contribution to the Project Completion Report
within six months of the closing date.
109. Procurement. Procurement under the project will follow standard procedures as
spelled out in the "Guidelines for Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits." The
ICB threshold is US$1 million. Procurement for imports under US$1 million will be done
directly by importers using their normal practices. The procurement procedures applied to
public entities in Armenia are based on competition open to both foreign and local bidders
and have been found acceptable to the Bank. In determining the threshold the following
considerations were taken into account: (i) the Bank's evolving experience of public
procurement practices in Armenia (gained through experience with seven previous loans and
through enterprise visits) revealed that commercial practices are generally in line with the
requirements that enterprises, in both public and private sectors, solicit multiple quotations
from multiple countries; (ii) the Letter of Development Policy under the Rehabilitation Credit
incorporated measures to enhance the role of competition in public procurement; and (iii)
technical assistance in public procurement is being provided by the Bank.2' Simplified ICB
21/   An Institutional Development Fund grant has been approved for the development of public procurement
legislation and an appropriate institutional framework in Armenia. In addition, the Institution Building Loan
provides funding for procurement training.



34
processes (using Bank standard bidding documents) would be followed for all contracts for
US$1 million or greater and would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Subject to the
Bank's prior approval, commonly traded commodities would be procured through organized
international commodities markets or other channels or competitive procurement. A Country
Procurement Assessment Review is underway.
110. Disbursement. The financing will be provided on the basis of (i) statements of
expenditure, prepared in accordance with the Bank's simplified documentation requirement for
adjustment operations (i.e. based on customs certificate) for contracts valued at less than US$1
million; (ii) full documentation (i.e. contract, supplier's invoice, evidence of shipment,
customs certificate, and evidence of payment) for contracts of US$1 million and above,
provided there are supporting documents that the contracts were awarded according to Bank
procurement guidelines; and (iii) a statement by the Government that the imports presented
for financing from the Structural Adjustment Credit have not been financed by another loan or
grant. Contracts valued at less than US$5,000 will not be eligible for financing. The project
manager will prepare the withdrawal applications and will keep photocopies of the customs
documents on which the applications are based. The original customs documents will be
retained by the Customs Department until three years after the closing of the project, and will
be made available to Bank supervision missions and to the auditors, as requested.
I 1 1. Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing. The project manager will maintain all project
accounts, which will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the World
Bank in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on auditing and financial reporting. Audit
reports will be submitted to the World Bank not later than six months after the close of each
year or the date of final disbursement. The project manager will also prepare monthly
progress reports detailing the status of all disbursement requests.
112.  Closing date. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed within three months of the
release of the second tranche. The closing date of the proposed credits will therefore be
December 31, 1997.
113. Environmental category. The credit will have no direct impact on the environment.
For the purposes of OD 4.01, the credit has therefore been placed in Category C which does
not require an environmental assessment.
114. Poverty Category. The proposed SAC is poverty-focused since it will support
improvements in the targeting of social assistance to the poorest groups and will enhance the
emphasis in health sector expenditures on primary health care. The determination of poverty-
focused measures in the program was informed by the results of the ongoing Poverty
Assessment.



35
C.   Benefits and Risks
115.  Benefits. The implementation of the structural reforms supported by the proposed
SAC will reorient the Armenian state away from a heavy reliance on subsidies and direct
management of the economy. Enterprises will be stimulated to adjustment to the new
incentive framework and the conditions will be created for the private sector to become the
engine of growth. At the same time, efficiency gains in social service provision and
improved targeting of protection for the most vulnerable groups in society will promote
human resource development and poverty alleviation. Fiscal adjustment and financial
discipline of enterprises will increase both public and private savings, thereby promoting price
stability, investment and growth.
116.  Risks. There is a risk of stabilization and structural reform being undermined by
sociopolitical opposition if economic recovery does not proceed fast enough to satisfy rising
expectations (presidential elections are to be held in September 1996). However, this will be
mitigated by improved targeting of social assistance and by continued humanitarian assistance
from donors and the Armenian diaspora. The implementation of the reform program could be
undermined by institutional deficiencies, although the ongoing reorganization of the public
administration and the provision of technical assistance by the World Bank Group and by
other donors will help to counteract this risk. There is a substantial risk of the international
community providing insufficient balance of payments financing in support of stabilization
and structural reform, which would entail an unsustainable level of poverty. However, the
CG process is designed to mitigate this risk. An additional risk is that aggregate demand will
recover only slowly in Armenia's FSU markets, and that access to non-traditional export
markets will be undermined by protectionism. A further risk is the resumption of hostilities
over Nagorno-Karabakh, and the consequent continuation of Armenia's economic isolation.
However, the current peace negotiations continue to move in a positive direction and
economic recovery is increasing popular support for peace.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
117.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
January 31, 1996
Attachments



Armenia: Main Economic Indicators
1994      1995      1996      1997       1998      1999      2000      2001      2002       2003      2004
Real Growvth Rate
GDP                               5.4%      5.0%      6.5%      7.0%       7.0%      6.0%      6.0%      6.0%       6.0%      6.0%      6.0%
Private Consumption                         16.7%     5.8%       7.5%      4.0%      2.3%      0.6%       1.4%      1.2%      2.1%      2.8%
Inflation (average)             5273.4%    175.6%    20.0%      13.6%      8.7%      7.0%      6.2%      6.2%       6.2%      6.2%      6.2%
Inflation (end of period)       1884.5%    26.3%      18.9%      9.5%      8.0%      6.2%      6.2%      6.2%       6.2%      6.2%      6.2%
Exports (Merchandise)                       9.7%      10.8%     20.1%     15.9%      15.3%     14.2%     12.2%     11.4%      8.0%      7.3%
Imports (Merchandise)                      37.5%      5.3%       8.3%      8.9%      7.5%      6.2%      6.0%       5.7%      5.1%      4.8%
1994      1995      1996      1997       1998      1999      2000      2001      2002       2003      2004
As % GDP
Exports                          39.4%      24.3%     21.4%     20.7%     20.9%      21.7%     22.5%     23.0%     23.3%      22.8%     22.0%
Imports                          79.3%     54.9%      42.0%     39.1%     36.0%      34.8%     33.0%     31.1%     29.4%      27.6%     25.9%
Resource Balance                 -39.9%    -30.6%    -20.6%    -18.4%    -15.1%    -13.1%    -10.4%      -8.2%     -6.1%      -4.8%     -3.9%
Current Account (Incld Grants)    0.9%     -12.8%     -7.2%     -9.3%     -8.5%      -7.9%     -6.7%     -5.0%      -3.4%     -2.5%     -1.9%
Current Account (Excld Grants)    -35.5%    -26.4%    -17.3%    -15.4%    -12.5%    - 10.8%    -8.4%     -6.4%      -4.5%     -3.3%     -2.6%
Domestic Savings                 -23.6%    -16.3%     -9.4%     -6.0%     -1.9%      1.2%       5.1%      8.4%      11.6%     13.8%     15.4%
o/w: Private Transfers          5.5%      4.9%       3.9%      3.5%      3.2%      2.9%       2.7%      2.6%      2.4%      2.2%       2.1%
Domestic Savings (excl Prv Trnsf)  -29.1%    -21.2%    -13.3%   -9.6%      -5.1%     -1.7%      2.3%      5.9%      9.2%      11.6%     13.3%
Investment                       10.8%      9.4%      7.3%       8.9%      10.0%     11.4%     12.7%     14.0%      15.3%     16.3%     17.2%
o/w: Public                     9.8%      7.4%       4.3%      4.8%      5.0%       5.4%      5.7%      6.0%      6.2%       6.3%      6.3%              ,, >
Government Revenue               27.6%      18.2%     16.2%     16.5%      16.7%     17.2%     17.9%     18.8%      19.3%     19.5%     19.8%              ID
o/v: Tax Revenue                13.0%     11.0%     12.3%      13.4%     14.3%     15.3%     16.3%      17.3%     18.2%     18.4%      18.6%             m x
Government Expenditure           44.1%      26.9%     23.8%     20.9%     20.5%      21.0%     21.5%     22.2%     22.7%      22.9%     22.9% ,
Fiscal Deficit (Incld Grants)    -16.4%     -8.7%     -7.6%     -4.4%      -3.8%     -3.8%     -3.7%      -3.5%     -3.5%     -3.4%     -3.0%
Fiscal Deficit (Excld Grants)    -28.3%    -12.7%    -10.0%      -6.1%     -5.0%     -4.6%     -4.2%      -3.8%     -3.5%     -3.4%     -3.0%



Armenia: Balancc of Paymcnts (millions of US dollars)
1994     1995      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000     2001      2002      2003     2004      2005
Merchandise Exports (FOB)              209.3    254.7    289.0    360.4    428.5    507.3    594.1    682.7    780.5    862.0    933.4    1009.4
Nonfactor Services                     47.8      69.8      65.2     39.8      41.3      47.1     53.5      60.0      67.1     73.3      79.1      85.1
Exports ofGNFS                         257.1    324.5    354.2    400.2    469.8    554.4    647.6    742.7    847.7    935.3    1012.5   1094.5
Merchandiselmports(FOB)                401.2    619.2    610.2    659.3    712.8    782.4    838.1    891.0    946.3    1000.1   1055.5   1111.8
NonfactorServices                      116.5    114.0      85.4     97.8      97.8      106.9    109.4    116.2    123.1    130.4    137.5    144.7
ImportsofGNFS                          517.7    733.2    695.6    757.1    810.6    889.3  . 947.5    1007.2   1069.3   1130.4   1193.0   1256.5
o/w: Energy                           159.9    210.8    215.3    234.8    254.9    274.3    289.8    303.1    317.2    332.0    347.8    363.7
Resource Balance                       -260.6    408.7   -341.4   -356.9   -340.9   -334.9   -299.9   -264.5   -221.6   -195.1    -180.5   -162.0
Net Factor Income                       -6.7     -9.6      -9.5      -9.3     -11.6    -16.6    -21.1    -25.7    -30.0    -32.6    -34.0    -35.0
Factor Payments                        7.2      13.1      14.8     15.2      21.1      26.1     30.5      34.5      37.6     40.3      42.7      44.0
o/w: Interest                        7.2      13.1      14.8      15.2     21.1      26.1      30.5     34.5      37.6      40.3     42.7      44.0
o/%wr Profit Remittances             0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Factor Receipts                        0.5       3.5       5.3      5.9       9.5       9.5      9.3       8.9       7.6      7.7       8.7       8.9
Private Transfers                       35.9     65.0      65.0      68.3      71.7     75.2      79.0      83.0     87.1      91.5      96.0     100.8
Current Official Grants                237.3    182.5    166.3    117.0        90.0     75.0      50.0      45.0     40.0      35.0      30.0     25.0
Current Account Balance (Incld Grants)  5.9    -170.8   -119.6   -180.9   -190.7   -201.3   -192.0   -162.2   -124.5   -101.2    -88.5    -71.2
Current Account Balance (Excld Grants)  -231.4   -353.3   -285.9   -297.9   -280.7   -276.3   -242.0   -207.2   -164.5   -136.2   -118.5    -96.2
Foreign Investment                      2.6      19.1      33.8     50.0      65.0      75.0     90.0      105.0    110.0    115.0    120.0    125.0
NetLong-TermLoans                       41.5     84.2      96.5      156.0    118.7    170.0    137.8       87.2     49.6      41.2      18.5      1.1
Disbursements                          42.1     135.9    146.6    164.5    136.8    182.2    160.9    135.5    117.3    119.5    107.0           96.0
Amortization                           0.6      51.7      50.1      26.2      29.6     36.5      40.8      51.8     65.3      74.2      82.0     90.5
Other Capital Flows                    43.4      80.0      -17.7     -8.0     -8.0      -8.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Change in Reserves(- increase)         -30.2    -58.7    -44.1      -68.0    -35.3    -21.2    -17.6    -18.9    -13.7    -23.4    -10.7    -19.9
IMF Credit                              23.6     46.2      51.1      50.9      50.3    -14.5    -18.2    -11.1    -21.4    -31.6    -39.3    -35.0
Memo:
GDP (mil US S)                        652.5    1336.2   1654.5   1937.1   2251.9   2553.6   2873.8   3234.2   3639.9   4096.4   4610.3   5188.7
Average Exchange Rate (Dram/$)        287.3    406.0    419.0    435.0    435.0    435.0    435.0    435.0    435.0    435.0    435.0    435.0              °  D
Real Exchange Rate 1/                 100.0     53.6     47.6      44.5      41.9      40.2     38.7      37.4      36.0     34.7      33.5      32.3
TermsofTrade                          100.0     99.0     110.4    114.1    117.6    118.3    120.1    122.6    125.2    127.4    127.9    128.6             o
Rcserves in Months of linports (GFS)   0.7      1.5       2.3       3.2       3.5      3.5       3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5       3.5      3.5
1/ Decrease = Appreciation



Armenia: Debt Indicators
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005
TotalDOD(USSM)                                  200.2      385.2     532.8    708.7      857.5     970.4    1059.1    1129.2    1161.6    1178.4    1169.0    1142.9
Debt Service Due (USSM)                          7.8       64.8      64.9      41.4       51.3      77.2      89.4      97.4      124.3     146.1      164.0     169.4
Total Debt/GDP                                  30.7%     28.8%     32.2%      36.6%     38.1%     38.0%     36.9%     34.9%      31.9%     28.8%     25.4%     22.0%
Debt Service/GDP                                 1.2%      4.8%      3.9%      2.1%      2.3%       3.0%      3.1%      3.0%      3.4%      3.6%      3.6%       3.3%
Interest/GDP                                     1.1%      1.0%      0.9%      0.8%      0.9%       1.0%      1.1%      1.1%      1.0%       1.0%     0.9%       0.8%
Debt Service/Total Exports                      3.0%      19.7%      18.0%     10.2%     ib.7%     13.7%     13.6%      13.0%     14.5%     15.5%     16.1%     15.4%
DOD/Export                                      77.7%     117.5%    148.2%    174.5%    178.9%    172.1%    161.2%    150.2%    135.8%    125.0%    114.5%    1036%
113RD Debt (US$M)                                 1.9       4.9       9.9       17.4      39.7      78.4      123.1     172.3     219.8     278.0     332.8      370.4
IBRD Debt Service Due (US$M)                     0.1        0.2       0.5       0.9       2.5        5.2       8.1       11.3      16.2      23.6      31.3      38.2
113RD Debt/GDP                                  0.3%       0.4%      0.6%      0.9%       1.8%      3.1%      4.3%      5.3%      6.0%      6.8%      7.2%       7.1%
IBRDDebt/TotalDOD                               0.9%       1.3%      1.9%      2.5%      4.6%       8.1%      11.6%     15.3%     18.9%     23.6%     28.5%     32.4%             Lo
IBRDDebtService/GDP                             0.0%       0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      0.1%       0.2%      0.3%      0.3%      0.4%      0.6%       0.7%      0.7%             co
IBRDDebt Service/Total Exports                  0.0%       0.1%      0.1%      0.2%      0.5%       0.9%      1.2%      1.5%       1.9%     2.5%       3.1%      3.5%
IBRD DebtService/Total Debt Service              1.3%      0.3%      0.7%      2.2%      4.8%       6.7%      9.0%      11.6%     13.1%     16.2%     19.1%     22.5%
IDADebt(US$M)                                    5.5       95.0      192.6    230.8      259.8      292.8     319.3     349.2     371.2     383.3     387.7      383.6
IDA Debt Service Due (US$M)                      0.0        0.4       1.1       1.6        1.8       2.1       2.3       2.5       2.7       2.8        3.5       7.0
IDADebt/GDP                                     0.8%       7.1%      11.6%     11.9%     11.5%     11.5%      11.1%     10.8%     10.2%      9.4%      8.4%      7.4%
IDA DebtVTotal DOD                              2.7%      24.7%      36.1%     32.6%     30.3%     30.2%     30.1%      30.9%     32.0%     32.5%     33.2%     33.6%
IDADebt Service /GDP                            0.0%       0.0%      0.1%      0.1%       0.1%      0.1%      0.1%      0.1%      0.1%       0.1%      0.1%      0.1%
IDA Debt Service / Total Exports                 0.0%      0.1%      0.3%      0.4%       0.4%      0.4%      0.3%      0.3%      0.3%       0.3%      0.3%      0.6%
IDADebt Service/Total Debt Service               0.3%      0.6%      1.7%      3.8%       3.6%      2.7%      2.6%      2.6%      2.2%       1.9%      2.1%      4.2%
Preferred Creditors Debt (US$M)                  45.4      207.3     401.0     555.0     697.6      775.5     834.2     900.9     940.2     966.3      971.7     955.5
Preferred Creditors Debt Service Due (US$M)       0.6       4.5       8.9       17.1      28.0      47.5      64.8       67.9      90.1      110.5     127.1     131.7
Preferred Creditors Debt/GDP                     7.0%     15.5%      24.2%     28.7%     31.0%     30.4%     29.0%      27.9%     25.8%     23.6%     21.1%      18.4%
Preferred Creditors Debt/Total DOD              22.7%     53.8%      75.3%     78.3%     81.4%     79.9%     78.8%      79.8%     80.9%     82.0%     83.1%     83.6%
PreferredCreditorsDebtService/GDP                0.1%      0.3%      0.5%      0.9%       1.2%      1.9%      2.3%      2.1%      2.5%       2.7%      2.8%      2.5%
Preferred Creditors Debt Service / Total Exports  0.2%     1.4%      2.5%      4.2%       5.8%      8.4%      9.9%      9.0%      10.5%     11.7%     12.4%      11.9%      (D M
Preferred Creditors Debt Service / Total D Srv   7.9%      6.9%      13.7%     41.3%     54.6%     61.6%      72.5%     69.7%     72.5%     75.7%     77.5%     77.7%          x
0
Prcfcrrcd Crcditors include World Bank, INIF, and EBRD.
All of the debt is public.



39
Annex 2
ARMENIA
Status Of Bank Group Operations In ARMENIA
PFDBR25 - Summary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 12/31/95 - MIS data as of 01/31/96)
By Country
Country:    ARMENIA
Amount in USS million
(less cancellations)
Loan or        FiscaL                                                                                         Undis-  Closing
Credit No.       Year   Borrower                           Purpose                      Bank           IDA     bursed   Date
Credits
1 Credits(s) closed                                                                                 60.00
C25620-AM       1994    ARMENIA                            EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRU                     28.00       10.67  06/30/96
C26660-AM       1995    ARMENIA                            POWER MAINTENANCE                        13.70       12.50  07/31/98
C26670-AM       1995    ARMENIA                            IRRIGATION REHAB.                        43.00       35.13  06/30/99
*   C27760-AM       1996    ARMENIA                            HIGHWAY                                   16.00       15.31  12/31/99
C27840-AM       1996    ARMENIA                            SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                      12.00       12.04  06/30/00
TOTAL nLumber Credits      5                                                                         112.70       85.66
Loans
0 Loans(s) closed
L35850-AM       1993    ARMENIA                            INSTITUTION BUILDING        12.00                     7.13  11/30/96
TOTAL number Loans =    1                                                                12.00                     7.13
TOTAL***                                                               12.00       172.70
of which repaid
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                               12.00       172.70
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                               92.78
Notes:
* Not yet effective
** Not yet signed
*** Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



40
Annex 3
Schedule A
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                        6 months
(b)   Prepared by:                                 Government with the assistance of
IBRD staff
(c)   Preparation Missions:                         September 22-30, 1995
October 13-November 11, 1995
(d)   Negotiations:                                January 19-22, 1996
(e)   Planned date of effectiveness:                March 8, 1996
(f)    List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:             Not applicable



ARMENIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                                   ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 10
OBJECTIVES    I                           CURRENT STATUS                                           MEASURES IN THE LDP
........ ...    .....    .                       ,.,... ....     . -,,, 
:                                                                           '  -    ,   .    :, ,,,   ........': :'::'- ''.: - - '' ':. ' :' : - .- : -,, .:- ...................................   :. ' : ' : ...-.-.,'.'.':-:.
A. ACHIEVING MACROECONOMIC STABILITY
To create and sustain a stable   Inflation was reduced to 26 percent in 1995 (from 1885 percent  An inflation target of 19 percent has been set for 1996.
macroeconomic environment        in 1994).
conducive to economic growth
The fiscal deficit fell from 16.4 percent of GDP in 1994 to 8.7  The fiscal deficit is targeted to fall to 7.6 percent of GDP in 1996.
percent in 1995.
Foreign exchange reserves rose from 0.7 months of import  Foreign exchange reserves are projected to rise to 2.3 months of import
cover in 1994 to 1.5 months in 1995.                      cover by end-1996.
ZI-
I/      Me_us take prior to Board presentation
2/      Eflfctvcss condition
3/      Second bandie condion



ARMENIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                                      ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 10
OBJECTIVES                                 CURRENT STATUS                                             MEASURES IN THE LDP
B. IMPROVING THE FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE OF ENTERPRISES
Trade and Clearing
To create a policy environment    The surrender requirement of 30 percent of foreign exchange  The Government will not introduce duty rates in excess of 15 percent
that eliminates state intervention in  earnings by exporters has been eliminated.              during 1996. In its negotiations to accede to the WTO, Armenia will
external trade, eliminates any anti-                                                           propose to bind its import tariff at 15 percent.
export bias, and promotes         Clearing trade now plays a smaller role in external trade, with
competition.                      the discontinuation of the arrangement with Russia. 1/       The gas account operated by Armgas for gas purchases will remain
current for the full period leading up to second tranche release.
Remaining export restrictions (equipment and machinery) have   Outstanding gas and goods purchases will not exceed the cash balance in
been abolished. 1/                                          the account at any point in time. Outstanding credits to the gas account
will not exceed the dram equivalent of USS 6 million at any time and
An import tariff with only two rates, zero and ten percent, has   Armgas may only borrow from Government or Government guaranteed
been introduced.                                            sources.3/
A decree has been issued appointing Armgas as the only state
entity authorized to procure gas and eliminating state guarantees
for gas imports. A separate account has been created for gas
purchase, and Armgas can purchase gas only in so far as it can
pay for it from the account. 1/
The setting of minimum reference prices for exports of scrap
metal and reexport of metals will be utilized only as a measure
to prevent tax evasion. Any difference between the reference
price and the price specified in a given export contract will be
taxed at the profits tax rate, rather than at the current 100
percent.
Measures taken prior to Board presentation
2/      Effectiveness condition
3/      Second tranche condition



ARMENIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                                   ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 10
OBJECTIVES                                CURRENT STATUS                                           MEASURES IN THE LDP
Energy Policy
To establish an energy policy    Average electricity tariffs have increased by 25 percent during   Collections: Armenergo's total collections from electricity supplied in
framework which promotes the     1995 although they do not yet cover O&M costs. Enforcement  1996 will exceed 60 percent of supply by July 1996 and 75 percent by
structural adjustment of the     of payments for electricity has improved.                  year-end. 3/
economy to a competitive market
basis promotes the efficient     The Government has adopted a decree specifying that energy  Restructuring/Privatization: Regional distribution companies will be
operation of the energy sector.  services to budgetary and non-budgetary entities will be   legally separated from electricity generation and transmission and a plan
terminated in case of non-payment. The decree provides for  prepared for the privatization of the generation companies. A
specific cases in which an organization is deemed to be critical  restructuring and privatization plan for Armgas and its subsidiaries will
and its electricity cannot be terminated. In such cases, the  be completed. Non-core service entities will be separated from the gas
Government will pay the organization's electricity bill. A  transportation, storage and distribution.
decree listing the organizations to which energy supply cannot
be terminated has also been adopted. 1/                    TariffReform: Average electricity tariff for each consumer group will
cover all O&M costs by April 1996 3/ and all capital and debt service
Electricity tariffs increases which fully cover O&M costs have   costs by year end.
been publicly announced. 1/                                                                                                      4
Legal Framework: Parliament will adopt an Energy Law which ensures:
(i) commercial independence and privatization of sector corporations; (ii)
facilitation of private investment; and (iii) definition of the roles of the
Government and an independent regulator.
Measures taken prior to Board presentation
2/      Effectiveness condition
3/      Second tranche condition



ARMENIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                                   ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 10
OBJECTIVES                                CURRENT STATUS                                           MEASURES IN THE LDP
Privatization and Private Sector Development
To foster the growth of the private  The Real Property Code has been adopted by Parliament. 1/  The Company Law  will be adopted by Parliament. 2/
sector and accelerate the transfer
of ownership.                    Privatization sales agreements were signed for over 2000 small  Parliament will approve the 1996 Privatization Program. 2/
enterprises. 1/
Satisfactory implementation of the Government's 1996 Privatization
400 medium- to large-scale enterprises have been offered for    Program. 3/
privatization. 1/
10 construction sites have been offered for sale. 1/
The Privatization Law has been amended to incorporate: (i) a
time limit of one month for initiation of second-stage and third-
stage actions for enterprises which do not sell in previous
attempts; and (ii) mandatory liquidation for enterprises that are                                                                 >
not sold after these actions in (i) above. The Privatization Law                                                                  41
also now includes the following provisions: (i) the Government
will be able to sell a portion of enterprises for money alone
(rather than money and vouchers); and (ii) the Government can
elaborate privatization methods for complex transactions such as
utility corporations. 1/
The Government has streamlined privatization by (i) modifying
the responsibilities and structure of the Privatization
Commission; and (ii) simplifying the information publication
requirements.
The centralized share registry is now operational. 1/
Measures taken prior to Board presentation
2/      Effectiveness condition
3/      Second tranche condition



ARMENIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                                      ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 10
OBJECTIVES                                 CURRENT STATUS                                             MEASURES IN THE LDP
Enterprise Restructuring
To ensure that economic agents    Eleven highly-indebted enterprises have been placed in an    A decision will be adopted on the general mechanisms for implementing
respond appropriately to market   enterprise restructuring program; the enterprise which was in    reorganization plans, which includes the role of creditors' committees and
signals. and are subject to the   the 1995 Privatization program has been offered for sale. i/  administrators.
discipline imposed by market
forces and competition.                                                                        The creditors' committees will be established and the administrators
appointed for the enterprises undergoing reorganization.
All eleven enterprises in the restructuring program will have undergone
their final offer for privatization or liquidation will be initiated. 3/
Parliament will adopt a revised Bankruptcy Law to provide for debtor
reorganization. 3/
(n
Measures taken prior to Board presentation
2/      Effectiveness condition
3/      Second tranche condition



ARMENIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                                      ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 10
OBJECTIVES                                 CURRENT STATUS                                             MEASURES IN THE LDP
Financial Sector Reform
To strengthen the capacity of the    The CBA has developed guidelines for aggregate limits on large  Parlh ment will adopt the Law on Bank Insolvency. 3/
banking system to mobilize        exposures and foreign exchange exposure. In April 1995, the
financial savings and allocate    minimum capital for banks was raised to US$100.000           Audits of all banks will be undertaken.
credit to efficient users.        equivalent. Regulations limiting bank lending to shareholders
have been introduced. The CBA is undertaking a complete     The CBA and Government will adopt a restructuring program for the
portfolio review of all the banks.                          Savings Bank, which is satisfactory to IDA. 3/
The Savings Bank will not conduct any new lending to        The new loan classification system will be fully implemcnted and banks
enterprises and to the interbank market to avoid further risks to   will begin provisioning under the new regulations.
depositors' funds pending the finalization of a detailed
restructuring program. 1/                                   A specialized bank resolution unit will be established in the CBA.
The Law on Bank Insolvency has been submitted to Parliament.  A new lAS-compatible accounting format for commercial bank reporting
1/                                                          to the CBA will be designed.
The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank of Armenia have  Debt work-out unit(s) will be established irt one or more of the stronger
adopted new regulations on loan-loss provisions. 1/         banks.
I/      Measures taken prior to Board presentation
2/      Effectiveness condition
3/      Second tranche condition



ARMENIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                                          ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 10
OBJECTIVES                                  CURRENT STATUS                              {                MEASURES IN THE LDP
C. IMPROVING THE EFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
Targeting of Social Assistance
To ensure the protection of the    Child allowances have been restricted in scope and             An interministerial group will be established to monitor administrative
most vulnerable groups in the      accompanied by an increase in the level of the allowance. I/   costs and effectiveness of targeting.
adjustment process and beyond.
The Pension Law has been adopted by Parliament providing,     The Paros program will continue to be used for the targeting of
inter alia. for a phased increase in the retirement age. 1/   humanitarian assistance, with the weight of income accounting for not
More than 10 percent of the total family score during 1996.
The Government will submit to Parliament legislation to regulate private
pension schemes.
The Government will submit to Parliament an Employment Law allowing
unemployment benefit only up to a maximum of 12 months and                 4
excluding new entrants to the labor market from receiving such benefits.
The Government will adopt a plan for restructurinrg tie employment
services including an implementation schedule.
Measures taken prior to Board presentation
2/      Effectiveness condition
3/      Second tranche condition



ARMENIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                                    ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 10
OBJECTIVES                                CURRENT STATUS                                            MEASURES IN THE LDP
Health Reform
To improve the delivery of health   A law defining the organization, financing and deliverv of  A health financing strategy will be prepared which includes: (a) a Basic
care in order to improve the health  health care services, was submitted to the Parliament and a  Benefit Package to be funded in priority by the State budget; (b)
status of the population and      Government decree has been adopted on the licensing system  protocols for treatment for the major diseases and the program to be
alleviate poverty.                for health care facilities and doctors.                    covered under the Basic Benefit Package; (c) costing mechanisms for the
delivery of health care services; and (d) program budgeting approach for
the financing of health facilities. 3/
The Government will adopt a plan for strengthening primary health care.
The Government will adopt a hospital consolidation program through
closure or privatization of facilities.
The Government will adopt new standards and norms for the distribution
of public facilities in the health sector.                             4
The Government will identify a transitory mechanism for providing low
cost treatment for poorer patients.
Measures taken prior to Board presentation
21      Eflectiveness condition
3/      Second tranche condition



ARMENIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                                    ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 10
OBJECTIVES    JCURRENT STATUS                                                                       MEASURES IN THE LDP
Education Reform
To mitigate the deterioration in the  The Government has initiated several reforms: curriculum  The Government will finalize the school map to identify the status of
education sector and continue the    reform, encouragement of private education, decentralization,    primary, secondary and technical education facilities. 3/ The
implementation of reform to make  increased cost recovery measures and incentives to encourage    Government will adopt a consolidation plan for schools which should
the education sector more efficient.  competition between schools.                           result in savings of at least 15 percent of the budget for general
education to be reallocated to improve efficiency of general education.
The Ministry of Education will prepare a strategy to improve the
availability of textbooks for secondary education.
Stipends will be provided in priority to needy students; at least 30
percent of the stipends provided in the 1997 Budget will support low
income students, based on a targeting mechanism to be adopted by the
Government.
The Ministry of Education will prepare a strategy to improve the
availability of textbooks for secondary education to the population, taking
into consideration affordability issues for low income groups.
I/      Measures taken prior to Board presentation
2/      Effectiveness condition
3/      Second tranche condition



ARMENIA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                                    ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 10
OBJECTIVES                                CURRENT STATUS                                            MEASURES IN THE LDP
Pay and Employment Reform
To reorient the role of the State.    The Government has initiated a program of staged salary  An interministerial committee will carry out a public service review to
ensure financial discipline and  increases, with an element of decompression, to improve public  cover: (i) resource framework for the public service; (ii) long term salary
support the development of the   service pay levels.                                         structure for the public service: (iii) overall functions and structure of
market economy.                                                                              Government and scope for further consolidation- (iv) respective roles
A significant consolidation of central government agencies has   and functions of the key central government agencies and the allocation
occurred and a new structure of local government is also being   of responsibilities between them and relevant sector ministries; (v) the
introduced.                                                role. functions and staffing of the proposed Department of Public Service
Management in the Office of the Government and a strategy for capacity
building; (vi) personnel information and management systems for the
public service; and (vii) strategies for management of the continuing
process of public service reform.
Functional reviews of key ministries will be undertaken to consider the
following: (i) the appropriate role of Government in the sector and hence
the functions the ministry should perform; (ii) how these functions can be  o
most efficiently performed; (iii) how the ministry should therefore be
organized; (iv) skill requirements and training needs for ministry staff;
and (v) budget projections for the ministry and target number of
employees. The functional reviews will not merely aim at efficiency
gains through consolidation of activities but will radically reappraise the
services to be provided by government agencies in a market economy.
Measures taken prior to Board presentation
2/      Effectiveness condition
3/      Second tranche condition



51
UalxUSttt    u-r sn
PRIME MINISTER
OF THE REPUBLIC OF ARMEN.IA
Dear Mr. J$mes D. Wolfensohn
The attacIled letter of Development Policy outlines the program of
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform of the Republic of
Armenia. \he request the World Bank to support this program with a
Structural Adjustment Credit of US$ 60 million.
The program of measures in the Letter,is intended to achieve the rapid
resumptior of economic growth within a sustainable macroeconomic
framework. If adjustments and corrective measures are required during the
course of the implementation of the program we will, where appropriate,
review thole measures with ths World Bank.
Ycurs sincerely,
HRANT BAGRATIAN
MR JAME  D. WOLFENSOHN
PRESIDE T
INTERNAl IONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
A9o 6
2.o.



52
Annex 5
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Stabilization
1.    The stabilization program aims to reduce inflation (on an end-period basis) to 19
percent in 1996. At the core of the program is sharp fiscal adjustment and restraint of
monetary expansion. The fiscal deficit is targeted to decline to 7.6 percent in 1996. The
deficit will be financed largely from external sources (and to the extent possible from
domestic bond sales) to avoid recourse to inflationary bank financing. Deficit reduction will
be achieved through a combination of reduction in recurrent expenditure, increased reliance
on consumption taxt, and improved tax and customs administration. The Central Bank will
maintain interest rates at levels it judges to be consistent with the inflation-reduction objective
through the auctioning of refinancing credit to the commercial banks rather than through
direct controls. A foreign exchange reserve target of 2.3 months of import cover by end
1996 has been establishcd.
Trade and Clearing
2.    The Government is committed to maintaining a free trade regime. The new import
tariff which was submitted to Parliament in December 1995 has only two rates: zero and ten
percent. In no case will the Government introduce duty rates in excess of 15 percent during
the course of 1996. Furthermore, the Government is committed to early accession to the
World Trade Organization and will aim to participate in the most important Agreements
(including GATS) and to bind its import tariff atl5 percent. No new non-tariff import and/or
export restrictions will be introduced.
3.    In parallel to discontinuing clearing arrangements, the Government will refrain from
interfering in gas-related barter and will allow gas importers to operate only on a commercial
basis.
4.    VAT is currently levied on a destination basis for non-CIS trade and on an origin
basis for CIS trade. The Government intends to move to a full destination basis (i.e. levying
VAT on imports from all countries and eliminating VAT on exports) in a manner consistent
with CIS agreements.



53
Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
Energy Sector
5.    The Government recognizes the importance of establishing an energy policy
framework which promotes the structural adjustment of the economy to a market basis..
Furthermore, the Government recognizes that the restructuring of the energy sector is itself
necessary to ensure the competitiveness of industry and agriculture, improve the sector's
commercial and technical efficiency, and attract private capital for the rehabilitation of the
energy supply infrastructure. The key elements of the sectoral reform strategy, centered
mainly around the electric power sub-sector, but including critical restructuring of the gas
sub-sector, are outlined below.
6.    Non-Payment and Theft: This is presently one of the most serious problems in the
economy. Whereas the population is increasingly willing and able to pay for a reliable and
continuous supply of electricity, the ability to pay of budgetary organizations, other public
service enterprises, and industrial enterprises remains constrained. A law has been passed
making the theft of electricity a criminal offense, and Government decrees have been adopted
allowing the termination of service to all non-paying customers with the exception of critical
budgetary organizations, drinking water supply, and the Nairit Chemical company.
7.    A system of prepayment and consumer cooperatives was introduced in mid-1995 to
improve the quality of service, quantity of supply, and collections from the population. The
success of the program depends on the reliability of electricity supply to the population.
Because the supply situation is uncertain and there are limited technical means to disconnect
individual non-paying consumers, collections from the population will be maintained at a
minimum of 40 percent of supply (defined as total generation minus technical losses and own
use) through the winter. The measures already being implemented to improve collections
will be further expanded and collections from the population will be increased to an average
of 45 percent in the period January 1 to June 30, 1996 and to 60 percent for 1996 as a
whole.
8.    The Government has issued a decree identifying those critical organizations
(budgetary and non-budgetary) to which energy supply cannot be terminated except by the
consent of the Government and has implemented mechanisms to pay directly to the energy
utilities for energy consumed, but not paid for, by the organizations to which energy services
are not permitted to be terminated. The decree sets the limits on the supply of energy in
case of non-payment (for which the Govermment will liable), and states that the Ministry of
Finance will guarantee payment within 30 days of being presented with unpaid bills.
Furthermore, the decree explicitly states that energy services to all other entities will be
terminated in case of non-payment. Through these measures, average collections from
budgetary organizations and all industrial and commercial consumers for 1996 electricity
consumption will be increased from 70 percent of supply in 1995 to 75 percent by July 1,
1996 and 85 percent by December 31, 1996 (all targets being measured on a year-to-date
basis).



54
Annex 5
Page 3 of 10
9.    By July 1, 1996, Armenergo's total collections from electricity supplied in 1996 will
exceed 60 percent of supply. Collections will be improved further to 75 percent of supply by
December 31, 1996.
10.   Government decree No.361 of December 27, 1995 has appointed Armgas as the only
state-owned or controlled entity authorized to procure gas, although any majority privately-
owned buyers may also purchase gas. To impose financial discipline, a separate account has
been created for gas purchase. Start-up funds for the account have been provided by a short-
term Government credit and guarantees (a maximum fiscal exposure of US$6 million
equivalent has been established for this purpose). The account is being replenished solely
from the payments received from consumers and income from asset sales. Armgas is
allowed to purchase gas only in so far as it can pay for it from the account. If Armgas
chooses to purchase gas with goods, these goods must be paid for from the account on a cash
basis. State guarantees for gas imports have also been eliminated.
11.   Restructuring and De-monopolization: In electric power sub-sector, the reforms
over the next 2-3 years will focus on separating the generation, transmission and central
dispatch, and regional distribution functions presently within Armenergo. As a first step, the
cost accounting systems will be strengthened in each of Armenergo's generation subsidiaries,
the transmission and dispatch part of the company, and in the regional and local distribution
companies. Separate proforma financial statements will be prepared for each of the cost and
profit centers by July 1, 1996.
12.   By July 1, 1996, the regional distribution companies will be legally separated from
the generation and transmission part of Armenergo and established as independent enterprises
and a plan prepared for the restructuring, corporatization and privatization of the generation
transmission and distribution enterprises. In the gas sector, the restructuring and
privatization plan for Armgas and its subsidiaries will be completed and non-core service
entities separated from the core functions of gas transportation, storage and distribution by
July 1, 1996.
13.   Tariff Policy Reforms: By April 1, 1996, the tariffs for generation, transmission
and distribution will be raised to cover all O&M costs. At the same time. a system of cash
transfers targeted to the most vulnerable sections of the population will be put in place to
compensate for the increased cost of a lifeline volume of electricity. By January 1, 1997,
tariffs will also cover capital (based on revalued assets) and debt service costs.
14.   Legal and Regulatory Framework: By May 1, 1996, the Parliament will adopt an
Energy Law which, inter alia, ensures: (i) commercial independence and privatization of
sector corporations; (ii) facilitation of domestic and foreign private investment in new and
existing facilities in the energy sector; and (iii) definition of the role of an independent
regulator in the energy sector. The regulator will be established initially within the
Governrment by July 1, 1996 and will regulate tariffs of energy monopolies, monitor the



55
Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
quality of supply, issue licenses, ensure access to transmission facilities by power producers,
and ensure access to gas transmission and storage facilities by gas suppliers and buyers. The
energy regulator will be established as an independent entity (as defined in the Energy Law)
by December 31, 1996.
Privatization
15.   The Government has made progress in privatization. As of January 1, 1996, the
Government had privatized (defined as sales agreements having been signed) over 1800 small
enterprises (this excludes over 300 small enterprises that were privatized in 1991-1992 before
the Privatization Law was passed and the 1994 Program was approved). With respect to
medium and large enterprises, the Government initiated voucher auctions in March 1995. As
of January 1, 1996, 355 medium- to large-scale enterprises had been privatized. While the
privatization targets for 1995 were not fully achieved, the pace of privatization increased
throughout the year and the Government is committed to continued acceleration without
losing the competitive and transparent structures and techniques that have been developed and
will complete the 1995 program by mid-1996.
16.   The Government has undertaken a number of actions aimed at streamlining the
process and accelerating privatization. Specifically: (i) the responsibilities and structure of
the Privatization Commission have been modified; and (ii) information publication
requirements have been simplified, without detracting from the transparency of the process.
17.   The Privatization Program for 1996 will build on the 1995 experience. The majority
of privatizations will thus take place through public subscriptions. In addition, some
enterprises will be sold by tender to strategic investors, by closed subscription to employees,
(primarily those that are currently leased to the employees), or by auction of packages of
shares. The 1996 program includes over 650 medium- to large-scale enterprises and the
approximately 2000 remaining small enterprises (thus small-scale privatization will be
completed by end-1996). The Government is in the process of issuing and distributing
additional vouchers to the population for the 1996 program.
Enterprise Restructuring
18.   A Bankruptcy Law was adopted in July 1995. However, this law has several
inadequacies and a revised law which addresses these deficiencies will be passed by
Parliament by May 1, 1996.
19.   In the interim, the high levels of losses and overdue debts in eleven of the larger
enterprises led the Government to develop a special restructuring program. This program
provides for: (i) severance payments associated with any necessary labor reduction to be
financed through the 1996 Budget; and (ii) the initiation of privatization and/or liquidation of
all enterprises by November 1, 1996. In effect, this will serve as a pilot bankruptcy



56
Annex 5
Page 5 of 10
exercise, as the steps to be followed conform to the reorganization procedures in the
proposed Bankruptcy Law.
20.   The first phase of the special restructuring program diagnosed the problems and
potential of the enterprises. The Government decided to offer all eleven enterprises for
privatization. Those which fail to be sold will be either reorganized and offered for sale
again or will be liquidated. Technical assistance to assist in establishing a framework and
procedures for liquidation of these (or any other) enterprises which cannot be privatized is
being provided.
21.   The Privatization Law requires that second-stage actions be initiated within one month
of the failure of a first attempt to sell an enterprise. For those enterprises for which the
second-stage action will consist of reorganization prior to a subsequent attempt to privatize,
creditors' committees will be formed, and administrators will be appointed to oversee the
reorganization process in each enterprise. The Administrator will have all of the powers of
shareholders, directors and officers of the enterprise, and will be able to operate it in the way
in which he or she believes to be the best way to resolve the financial situation and lead to
privatization of the enterprise. In particular, the Administrator will be vested with the power
to: (i) continue or discontinue operations; (ii) stop or limit payments; (iii) employ or dismiss
any necessary manager, employee or professional advisor; and (iv) agree with creditors on a
financial restructuring plan. To support their efforts, Administrators will have access, as
needed, to a multi-disciplinary technical support team, including financial, marketing, legal
and industrial specialists.
22.   Each Administrator will prepare reorganization and financial restructuring plans which
will be submitted to the respective Creditors' Committees by June 1, 1996, so that
privatization can take place or liquidation procedures can be initiated.
Financial Sector
23.   The Government and the CBA recognize that many Armenian banks are in a serious
financial condition and are committed to take actions to correct this situation. With the
assistance of the Bank and the Fund they are developing a rehabilitation strategy designed to
produce a healthier banking system. This strategy seeks to differentiate between viable and
non viable banks; to ensure that the former are given all available assistance in building
themselves into strong organizations; and that the latter are either restructured or closed in an
efficient manner.
24.   To this end, the CBA will conduct audits of all the country's banks using the
assistance of experienced central bank examiners as advisors beginning in March 1996, with
the technical assistance of the World Bank. The work will be completed by June 1996.
These examinations will be designed not only to check the quality of bank portfolios (and so
confirm bank decisions about loan-loss provisions and write offs) but also to provide an



57
Annex 5
Page 6 of 10
independent check on the quality of bank management systems.
25.   As the second main element of strategy, the CBA will implement new regulations for
loan classification and loan-loss provisions in order to establish a more accurate measure of
the true capital in each bank. These new regulations will provide the commercial banks with
some limited discretion in the setting of provisioning ratios for some classes of loans
(specifically standard, doubtful and dangerous) but only on the basis that the judgements of
banks concerning classification can be overridden by the CBA. Under these regulations, bad
loans will have to be provisioned at 100 percent. In those cases where the banks cannot
absorb the full extent of the loan-loss provisions from their profits and reserve funds, the
CBA will still insist on the full implementation of the loan classification system by April 1,
1996. Banks are required to begin provisioning under the new regulations no later than July
1, 1996.
26.   The new Law on Bank Insolvency allows for the appointment of a conservator for
banks with inadequate capital and also for the liquidation of banks. To ensure adequate
technical capacity to deal with problem banks, and the restructuring of some of them, a
specialized bank resolution unit will be established in the CBA.
27.   To support the efforts to differentiate between viable and non-viable banks, the CBA
will also move as rapidly as possible to reform commercial bank accounting to comply with
Internationally Accepted Standards (IAS). In particular, a new IAS-compatible format for
commercial bank reporting to the CBA will be designed by September 1, 1996.
28.   The Government and the CBA will consider the use of external technical assistance
funds to establish work-out units in one or more of the stronger banks to help implement the
provisions of the Bankruptcy and Collateral Laws and begin standard recovery practices.
29.   On the basis of an examination by the CBA and other studies, the Government and
the CBA will formulate and implement a restructuring program for the Armenian Savings
Bank by April 1, 1996. This restructuring program will rationalize the numbers of bank
branches and staff to reduce operating costs; will strengthen the management and control
systems of the bank; and will open up for competition any activities of the bank.
Social Safety Net
30.   The Government's social safety net strategy involves moving progressively from
generalized subsidies to targeted benefits, with a medium-term goal of relying primarily on
an incomes-tested poverty benefit to protect vulnerable groups in society. In order to achieve
that goal, the Government is improving targeting by category in the short term while
developing the informational base for incomes-testing.
31.   The Paros program will continue to be used for the targeting of humanitarian



58
Annex 5
Page 7 of 10
assistance, with the weight of income accounting for not more than 10 percent of the total
family score during 1996. A monitoring group will be established (with participation from
the Ministries of Social Protection, Statistics, Economy and Finance) to report on Paros
implementation on a quarterly basis. By October 1, 1996, a decision will be taken on the
appropriate weight of income in the family score for 1997 and on the possible use of Paros
for targeting cash benefits.
32.   To consolidate the gains achieved from the flattening of the state pension structure in
the 1995 Pension Law, the Government will submit to Parliament by September 1, 1996
legislation to regulate private pension schemes in order to facilitate their emergence to
supplement the state system.
33.   The Government will submit to Parliament by July 1, 1'996, an Employment Law
allowing unemployment benefit only up to a maximum of 12 months (the current draft
stipulates 16 months) and excluding new entrants to the labor market from receiving such
benefit (the draft allows them to receive benefits). In addition, the Government will adopt
by April 1, 1996, a plan for restructuring the employment services including an
implementation schedule.
Health Care
34.   The Government's health reform will focus on restructuring the health care system by
strengthening ambulatory care and, in particular, developing primary and preventive care
programs as well as general practitioners' activities. Curative care will be streamlined to
make it more cost effective, standards and norms for hospitals will be revised and some
facilities will be closed or reduced in size. Private sector activities will be encouraged. The
legal framework for the development of health insurance has been elaborated. In addition,
the Ministry of Health has started implementation of the licensing system of practitioners and
facilities.
35.   The Ministry of Health will implement a number of actions to make the system more
cost effective. In the area of health restructuring, the Government will:
(i)    Adopt, by August 1, 1996, a plan for strengthening primary health care
including primary health care programs, the mechanisms for implementation
and financing of these programs, the referral mechanism from primary levels
to hospitals and staffing needs for primary level facilities.
(ii)   Adopt, by September 1, 1996, a program of consolidation of hospitals by
closing or privatizing some underutilized services and facilities, creating
savings of at least 15% of the health budget to be reallocated to the
improvement of the quality of health care, to be implemented under the 1997
budget.



59
Annex 5
Page 8 of 10
(iii)   Adopt new standards and norms for the distribution of public facilities by
September 1, 1996.
36.   The following actions will be taken in the area of health financing:
(i)    The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance will prepare a health
financing strategy by August 1, 1996, which will include: (a) a Basic Benefit
Package to be funded in priority by the State budget; (b) protocols for
treatment for the major diseases and the program to be covered under the
Basic Benefit Package; (c) costing mechanisms for the delivery of health- care
services; and (d) program budgeting approach for the financing of health
facilities. This strategy will be incorporated in the 1997 Budget.
(ii)   By September 1, 1996, the Government will identify a transitory mechanism
for providing low cost treatment for the patients who are too poor to afford the
levels of payments which will be established for health care, before health
insurance mechanisms can be established.
(iii)   A program of information and consultation on the health care reform,
identifying the main parties concerned by the health reform, will be prepared
in view of creating broader acceptance for the health reforms and will be
adopted by the Ministry of Health by October 1, 1996.
Education
37.   The Government is committed to mitigate the degradation in the education sector and
to continue the implementation of the education reform to make the education system more
efficient and adapted to a market economy. The Government will continue the curriculum
reform for general education, implement the strategy to improve the availability of textbooks
to the population, and improve teacher training.
38.   The Government will finalize the school map by April 1, 1996, to identify the status
of primary, secondary and technical education facilities. The school map is necessary for the
preparation of the consolidation plan which the Government will be carrying out in 1996.
39.   The Ministry of Education will review the standards and norms for school facilities
and teachers at the primary, secondary and technical education levels in order to make the
system more cost-effective. Students/teachers and students/classrooms ratios and
geographical distribution of facilities are generous but under the present fiscal constraints not
sustainable. The new standards and norms will be adopted by the Government by August 1,
1996.
40.   Based on the new standards and norms, the Governmnent will adopt by September 1,



60
Annex 5
Page 9 of 10
1996, a consolidation plan for schools wkich should result in savings of at least 15 percent of
the budget for general education to be reallocated to improve efficiency of general education.
The plan will be implemented with the 1997 budget.
41.   Lack of textbooks is one of the major constraints to the improvement of quality of
Education in Armenia. Based on the textbook study which has been carried out, the Minister
of Education will prepare a strategy to improve the availability of textbooks for secondary
education to the population, taking into consideration affordability issues for low income
groups. The strategy will be adopted by the Government by September 1, 1996.
42.   Stipends should be provided in priority to needy students; at least 30 percent of the
stipends provided in the 1997 Budget will support low income students, based on a targeting
mechanism to be adopted by the Government by September 1, 1996.
Civil Service Reform
43.   The Government recognizes the need for an integrated public service reform strategy.
The strategy will link measures that affect public service pay, employment, the organization
and functions of Government and systems for public service management.
44.   The Government will establish a Department of Public Service Management within
the Office of the Government, under the supervision of the Cabinet Secretary. The head of
this department will be appointed by April 1, 1996.
45.   A high-level inter-ministerial committee has been created to prepare an explicit public
service development strategy and supervise its implementation. As a key input to the
preparation of the public service development strategy, a broad public service review will be
carried out under the overall supervision of the inter-agency committee. The report of this
review will be presented to Government by July 1, 1996. It will cover the following: (i) the
resource framework for the public service, reflecting sustainable levels of public expenditure
and employment; (ii) an appropriate long term salary structure for the public service; (iii) a
review of the overall functions and structure of Government and scope for further
streamlining and consolidation; (iv) a review of the respective roles and functions of the key
central government agencies and the allocation of responsibilities between them and relevant
sector ministries; (v) the role, functions and staffing of the Department of Public Service
Management in the Office of the Government and a strategy for capacity building; (vi)
personnel information and management systems for the public service, linked to ongoing
efforts to strengthen budgeting and expenditure management; and (vii) strategies for
management of the continuing process of public service reform.
46.   In parallel with the overall public service review, a series of functional reviews of key
ministries will be undertaken, with technical assistance support as necessary. Each functional
review will consider the following: (i) the appropriate role of Government in the sector and



61
Annex 5
Page 10 of 10
hence the functions the ministry should perform (taking account of the roles of other
government bodies); (ii) how these functions can be most efficiently and effectively
performed (e.g. by Government directly, by self-financing agencies, by contract with the
private sector); (iii) how the ministry should therefore be organized (including which units
should be merged or dropped), with mission statements and job descriptions for continuing
activities; (iv) skill requirements and training needs for ministry staff; and (v) budget
projections for the ministry and target number of employees.
47.   The functional reviews will not merely aim at efficiency gains through consolidation
of activities but will radically reappraise the services to be provided by government agencies
in a market economy and will consider decentralized and, where appropriate, more market-
oriented modes of service delivery. The central resource agencies of Government will.
provide a clear resource framework for these functional reviews (projections of sustainable
levels of public expenditure and employment, and indications of sectoral priorities for
allocation of public resources).
48.   The functional reviews will be undertaken by teams drawn from the ministries
concerned, from the key central ministries (Economy and Finance) and from the Office of
the Government. They will be supported by consultants where necessary. Priority in
conducting functional reviews will be given to those ministries which are the most important
in terms of budgetary expenditure and employment, and ministries which deal with major
economic sectors but whose role is changing dramatically with the shift to a market
economy.
49.   Functional reviews for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food; Ministry of Industry;
and Ministry of Trade, Services and Tourism will be completed by September 1, 1996, so
that their conclusions can be reflected in preparation of the 1997 Budget. In addition,
functional reviews for the Ministries of Education and Health will be effected through the
series of coordinated studies and reviews described in the relevant sections of this Letter of
Development Policy, and the results will feed in to the 1997 Budget preparation.
50.   The Government will continue the staged implementation of its strategy to raise public
service wages while reducing budgetary employment. While increasing real wages, the
Government will further decompress salary scales so as to provide appropriate rewards for
experience, qualifications and responsibility. The targets for wages and employment levels
will be revised in the light of the public service review and the functional reviews of
Ministries, as well as fiscal developments. (The functional reviews will be relevant to the
employment targets, since decentralized and market-oriented approaches to service delivery
are likely to reduce the number of employees directly funded from the budget).



I






IMAGING
Report No: P-   6732. AM
Type: pR



