Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19230
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TXHE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28240-AM
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
Credit No. 29800-AM
June 15, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
ECA Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 15, 1999)
Currency Unit          =           Armenian Dram
US$1               =                D543
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASB       Armenian Saving Bank
BBP        Basic Benefit Package
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBA        Central Bank of Arnenia
CIS      Confederation of Independent States
GOA        Government of Armenia
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MOE        Ministry of Energy
MOFE         Ministry of Finance and the Economy
PFP       Policy Framework Paper
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
SBA        Stand-By Arrangement
TA       Technical Assistance
ARMENIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:     Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director:   Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Leader:      Hafez Ghanem, ECSPE
Team Leader:        Lev M. Freinkman, Country Economist, ECSPE



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28240-AM
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT {I
Credit No. 29800-AM
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.        Objectives, Background and Description ..............................................l
B.        Achievement of Objectives ..............................................4
C.        Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................7
D.        Project Sustainability ..............................................8
E. Bank Performance.                                                                      8
F.        Borrower Performance .............................................             10
G. Assessment of Outcome .                                                               11
H.        Future Operations ..............................................11
I. Key Lessons Learned .1 
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans                                                              15
Table 3: Project Timetable                                .16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................................ 17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                   .18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation                      .18
Tahle 7- Studies Included in Project ............................,.,. 18
Table 8A: Project Costs..I ,,
Table 8B: Project Financing              ..                                              20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .                                                   20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ......................... . . . . . , .,. 21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................................ 21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .21., , ,,.               ........................................ 2 1
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..............................,.,.,.,,.,,,., . 22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
B. Policy Matrix November 1998
C. Tranche Release Measures for SAC II
D. QAG Summary for the Structural Adjustment Credit II



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28240-AM
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
Credit No. 29800-AM
Preface
This ICR covers two credits to Armenia: The first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I)
for SDR40.4 million ($60 million equivalent), approved by the Board on February 29, 1996,
signed on March 4, 1996, and made effective on March 22, 1996; and the second Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC II) SDR43.1 million (also $60 million equivalent), approved on August
26, 1997, signed on September 2, 1997, and made effective on September 22, 1997. SAC I
closed on December 31, 1997, which was the original closing date. SAC II will close on June
30, 1999, also the original closing date.
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared by Richard Carroll as a desk
assignment, based on interviews with staff and materials from the project file. The first Country
Director for Arnenia was Mr. Basil Kavalsky who was followed by Ms. Judy O'Connor who had
overall responsibility for monitoring progress of the two operations until close. Messrs. Cyril
Muller (Country Officer, ECCO3), Lev Freinkman (ECSPE), Jonathan Walters (Task Manager for
SAC I, ECSEG), Pervaiz Rashid (ECSPE), and Ms. Ana Revenga (Task Manager for SAC II,
ECSPE) provided comments. Mmes. Cheryl Martin (ECCO3)and Frances Rosenthal (ECSPE)
provided support and comments for the ICR. Messrs. Freinkman, Muller, and Rashid reviewed this
ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28240-AM
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
Credit No. 29800-AM
Evaluation Summary1
Project Origin and Objectives
1.    The first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) for SDR40.4 million, or $60 million
equivalent, was approved by the Board on February 29, 1996, signed on March 4, 1996, and
made effective on March 22, 1996. The second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) for
SDR43.1 million, also $60 million equivalent, was approved on August 26, 1997, signed on
September 2, 1997, and made effective on September 22, 1997. The two operations are
combined in this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) because they are part of a series of
closely related adjustment operations.
2.    The objective of SAC I was to support the Government of Armenia's (GOA) reform
program to stabilize the economy and create the conditions for resuming growth and improving
living standards through i) provision of foreign exchange for the purchase of critical imports,
particularly for the private sector; ii) budgetary support, especially for strengthening the social
safety net for the most vulnerable groups; and iii) providing a framework for urgently needed
financial assistance from other donors.
3.    The objective of SAC II was to support GOA's program to consolidate macroeconomic
stability and to lay the foundations for sustained private sector led growth over the medium term.
The program to achieve these goals included measures to: (i) improve financial discipline in the
private and public sectors to increase 0domestic savings, facilitate further external adjustment and
ensure Armenia's creditworthiness; (ii) accelerate the growth and development of the private
sector; and (iii) ensure the social sustainability of the reform process and preserve Armenia's
stock of highly skilled human capital. This program was consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) which was to foster rapid development of the private sector by (a) promoting
sectoral reforms, strengthening the legal and regulatory framework and alleviating infrastructural
bottlenecks in energy transport and water; and (b) strengthening the social safety net and
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for SAC I and SAC 11 covers actions and events in Armenia relating to these two operations
from the time of SAC I preparation, until SAC 11 close (June 1999).



- ii -
improving access to health and education. The objectives of SAL I and II were appropriate
GOA's reform process.
Implementation Experience and Results
Overview
4.    By the time of SAC I approval, the Armenian economic environment had improved
dramatically. Hyperinflation was defeated, the conflict over Nagorno Karabakh had subsided,
and a successful Bank financed Rehabilitation Credit had supported a strong reform program.
SAC I targeted the sectors most important to the transition to a private sector economy. The IDA
credit was fully disbuLrsed by original closing date of December 31, 1997. SAC I addressed
reforms in three major areas: (a) Macroeconomic Stability, (b) Improving Financial Discipline
of Enterprises, and (c) Improving the Efficiency of the Public Sector. The energy policy
component was one of the most important component because of its financial implications for
the economy.
5.    The economy continued to improve leading into SAC II.  SAC II broadened and
deepened the reform prograrn from  SAC I, and added water sector reforms and social
sustainability measures.  The four major policy areas covered by SAC II were:  (a)
Macroeconomic Stability, (b) Improving Financial Discipline in Private and Public Sectors, (c)
Accelerating Development of the Private Sector, and (d) Ensuring Social Sustainability of the
Reform Process. Energy reforms continued to be a centerpiece of the adjustment process.
Summary of Accomplishments
6.    On implementation progress and development objectives, the SAC I was consistently
rated as satisfactory throughout the project's life. During the last two supervision missions,
achievement of development objectives received a highly satisfactory rating. The first tranche
for $30 million was released on March 22, 1996, and the second tranche of $30 million was
released on December 10, 1996.
7.    SAC  II was consistently rated satisfactory throughout implementation, both on
implementation progress and development objectives. The first tranche for $40 million was
released on September 22, 1997 and the second tranche for $20 million was released on
December 29, 1997. The report from the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated most major aspects of
the implementation of SAC II "satisfactory"(Annex D). However, as described in section E. below,
the reform process regressed after the second tranche release. Major accomplishments of the two
operations include:
8.    Trade. Recognizing that Armenia could succeed only under openness, authorities
pledged to bind tariffs to the World Trade Organization (WTO) at rates not above 15 percent.
Policy-makers reduced bartering for gas supplies. In general, Armenia strove to eliminate the
role of the state in trade and expand the reforms achieved under the Rehabilitation Credit.
9.    Energy. Energy was an extremely important area for SAC operations because of the
large financial implications of reforming vs. not reforming. SAC I built on the gains from the
Rehabilitation Credit, increasing the reliability and duration of electric supply from 12 hours to



- iii -
24 hours per day and expanding energy supply to the general populace. GOA reorganized the
energy industry, separating the three major functions of generation, transmission and
distribution. As part of the privatization of the economy, the Ministry of Energy (MOE)
transferred management to commercial operations, which operated under a new regulatory
framework. GOA also raised electricity tariffs to a level sufficient to cover operations and
maintenance. Collection rates for electricity supply also improved leading up to SAC II.
10.   Under SAC II, GOA continued progress in collections from end users of electricity
reaching 70 percent. The Government also became more strict with large organizations paying
their electric bills. Drinking water companies had to pay an increasing share of their electric
bills. The energy sector was to be further strengthened by development of a Financial
Rehabilitation Strategy. While GOA agreed in principle with this exercise, progress was
irregular. On the regulatory/tariff side, the reorganization of the MOE was formalized with the
establishment of the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC). Several categories of users, e.g.,
veterans and electric company employees, also lost their exemptions in favor of means-tested
cash allowances. Unfortunately, after the release of the second tranche of SAC 1I, some of the
tariff measures and commitments were rolled back (see section C.).
11.   Water. The main progress achieved in this sector was in assessing and collecting tariffs
with the goal of improving and sustaining water delivery. Collections exceeded 55 percent by
December 31, 1997, but GOA did not implement the revised drinking water tariffs (as per the
LDP, by January 1, 1998).
12.   Privatization. Privatization went reasonably well during both operations as the GOA
established and met quantitative targets under SAC I for small (2,000), and medium to large
enterprises (400). GOA also made improvements in the liquidation procedure. Under SAC II,
another 4,700 small enterprises and 1,504 medium and large enterprises were offered for sale. A
privatization strategy for the power sector was also adopted. The privatization component was
successful, but would have been more economically significant had the conflict over Nagomo
Karabakh not deterred outside investors from participating.
13.   Enterprise restructuring. This component was not as successful. GOA drafted a
bankruptcy law and created a judicial framework, but implementation bogged down, in part due
to overly complicated laws. The 11 enterprises identified for restructuring, and privatization or
liquidation were not satisfactorily resolved. Although the cognac and telecom enterprises and
hotels (the latter was not listed) were sold, other large enterprises such as the chemical factories
were not reorganized and continued to be a budgetary drag. Exit mechanisms for these
remaining large firms had not been devised.
14.   Financial sector reform. In termns of dealing with problem banks, financial reforin was
successful. SAC I called for the restructuring of the Savings Bank which was confined to only
low risk assets. Via this restructuring, the Savings Bank lowered its cost base and its risk
exposure. State-owned banks were required to improve their portfolios which consisted of a
large percentage of non-performing loans (NPLs). Under the program, these banks sought new
investors, conducted workouts of the weak loans and were able to substantially improve their
balance sheets. CBA's capacity to supervise and regulate according to internationally accepted
accounting principles improved.



- iv -
15.   Public sector/Safety net. Efficiency improved with respect to targeting, especially on
pension reform. Targeting efficiency also improved with the Basic Benefit Package (BBP) and
primary healthcare, and with the reorganization of schools (including the drafling of school
maps). SAL II accelerated social sector measures and announced a single "Vulnerability Benefit
Program" to replace the old regime of child allowances and tariff exemptions. However, GOA
did not provide budget resources for this program until FY99.
16.  In general, during the two adjustment operations, the large majority of reforms were
carried out, albeit at an irregular rhythm, by the respective closing dates of December 31, 1997
and June 30, 1999. The weak performance during late 1996 to mid-1997 was related to the
presidential election and, later, appointment of a new prime minister. The new government's
initial reform commitment was hampered by the fear of unpopularity of reforms. However,
GOA accelerated implementation in the last six weeks of 1997 to compensate for slow
implementation earlier in the year. Concern over the sustainability of these accomplishments arose
again when some of the commitments made to obtain the second tranche release of SAC II were
rolled back in early 1998. This concern was eased by the successful continuation of adjustment
lending through SAC III, and in recognizing that many of the measures are self-sustaining, such as
those related to privatization.
Bank Performance
17.   The Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory. The Bank identified key reform areas,
the success of which was shown by continued stabilization and growth. In targeting privatization
and emphasizing the energy sector, the Bank pursued the two largest areas of reform and
achieved substantial progress, although there is still much to do in both areas. One significant
blemish on Bank performance was the release of the second tranche of SAC II before reforms
could be consolidated. The GOA rollback of energy tariff increases and collections measures
was especially damaging to the reform program. The Bank could also have established and
tracked a more comprehensive set of performance indicators. Related Bank operations include
ttie Soocia'l Ir-vestment fund ($16 million, approved FY96), Enterprise Development ($16.75
million, approved FY97), and the Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit ($5 million,
approved FY98).
Borrower Performance
18.   As measured by its fulfillment of most of the agreed measures of SAC I and SAC II,
GOA performance is considered satisfactory. Performance was especially good in meeting
targets for small and medium scale enterprises to be transferred to the private sector. Another
strong point was assembling a high caliber set of counterparts. The counterpart team consisted of
trained economists who had exposure to market economics. Later, when a new government took
over, the rate of implementation became very dependent on the presence of Bank supervision.
Future Operations
19.   The sequence of SAC I and SAC II was followed by SAC III, effective in December
1998. SAC III supports Government efforts to consolidate macroeconomic stability and lay
foundations for sustained private-sector led growth over the medium term.



v 
Lessons Learned
20.   The main lessons learned are:
*  Counterpart experience and quality. Capable policy people in the government are key to
program performance. In Armenia, the policy team spoke English, studied non-marxist
economic models, and witnessed hyperinflation. This background permitted officials to
understand, contribute to and commit to a comprehensive reform program.
*  Continuity of SAC teams. It is advantageous to maintain project team continuity on both the
counterpart and Bank sides. There is greater ownership on both sides. There is less
rehashing of agreements. Implementation is smoother.
*  Composition of supervision teams. Supervision teams that are comprised of the core country
team ensure that SAC supported policies will be directed toward the top sectoral priorities.
*  Core country teams save budget. More frequent supervisions are possible for the same SAC
budget. Major costs of airfare, hotel, etc., can be distributed over not only the SAC
operation, but also the other sectoral projects that the core country team members are
administering. In other words, the sector budgets supplement the SAC budget. Availability
of the whole core country team for an adjustment operation tend to be feasible for smaller
countries.
-  Influence of financing gaps on tranche release. Sometimes the pressure to fill financing gaps
can affect policy considerations for tranche release, as in the case of SAC II's second tranche
release. The result can be weak compliance with the reform program if tranche release is
premature.
*  Core country teams give and get added leverage. Another advantage to the country team
approach is that Bank personnel can leverage off the large envelope of adjustment operation
fumds to gain support for their respective sector projects. Progress in the sectors feeds back
into the structural adjustment operation, as well, creating a mutually reinforcing reforn
process.
*  Adequate supervision. Intensive supervision is a key success factor for projects in new
member countries. Because of lack of familiarity with Bank operations, Armenia required
close and frequent Bank consultations as were provided by the supervision teams.
*  Broad participation in meetings. Having all sectoral personnel present for preparation
mission meetings achieves greater ownership of the program for all involved. While
somewhat tedious to listen to discussions of other personnel's components, all sectoral
personnel can see how the structural adjustment operation fits together. Comprehending the
whole picture wins greater counterpart support for the programn.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT I
Credit No. 28240-AM
and
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
Credit No. 29800-AM
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Objectives, Background and Project Description
1.    This ICR covers two credits to Armenia: the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I)
for $60 million equivalent, approved by the Board on February 29, 1996, signed on March 4,
1996, and made effective on March 22, 1996, and the second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC
II) also for $60 million equivalent, approved on August 26, 1997, signed on September 2, 1997,
and made effective on September 22, 1997. The two operations are combined in this ICR
because they are part of a series of closely related adjustment operations.
Objectives
2.    The objective of SAC I was to support the Government of Armenia's (GOA) reform
program to stabilize the economy and create the conditions for resuming growth and improving
living standards through i) provision of foreign exchange for the purchase of critical imports,
particularly for the private sector; ii) budgetary support, especially for strengthening the social
safety net for the most vulnerable groups; and iii) providing a framework for urgently needed
financial assistance from other donors. The key indicators of development impact at appraisal
were identified as reducing inflation and sustaining growth. During the May 1996 supervision
mission, key impact indicators were expanded to include: (a) completion of the 1995
P.-rvti7ation Program plus privatization of 300 additional enterprises from the 1996 Program by
the end of 1996; (b) completion of small-scale privatiza(ioii by end-1096; (c) increased
collections of energy payments and increased reliability of supply; and (d) Reductions in poverty.
Additional financial indicators of success included no financing gap, improved reserve position
of the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA), and increased public expenditures on the social sectors
(in real terms).
3.    The objective SAC II was to support GOA's program to consolidate macroeconomic
stability and to lay the foundations for sustained private sector led growth over the medium term.
The program to achieve these goals included measures to: (i) improve financial discipline in the
private and public sectors to increase domestic savings, facilitate further external adjustment and
ensure Armenia's creditworthiness; (ii) accelerate the growth and development of the private



- 2 -
sector; and (iii) ensure the social sustainability of the reform process and preserve Armenia's
stock of highly skilled human capital. Verifiable success indicators included: increasing
government revenues, further commercialization of energy sector enterprises, improved payment
record in irrigation and drinking water subsectors, restructuring problem banks and improving
regulation and supervision, establishing a foundation for secure property rights, developing
capital markets, strengthening and improving targeting of social safety net, improving viability
and affordability of the pension system, increasing quality of and access to education and basic
health services. This program was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which
was to foster rapid development of the private sector by (a) promoting sectoral reforms; (b)
strengthening the legal and regulatory framework; and (c) alleviating infrastructural bottlenecks
in energy transport and water. The CAS also aimed at strengthening the social safety net and
improved access to health and education.
Background
SAC I (up to approval, February 1996)
4.    Armenia declared independence on September 23, 1991, and joined the IBRD in
September 1992 at a time when Armenia's economy was declining precipitously. The shock of
separation from the Former Soviet Union (FSU), whose trade accounted for half of Armenia's
GDP, its legacy of State directed economic activity, and the outbreak of hostilities all contributed
to the decline. Its landlocked position and small size (population 3.7 million) made Armenia
more vulnerable. Specific problems included: (i) the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict cut off rail,
road and pipeline links through Azerbaijan to 'the rest of the Soviet economy; (ii) closure of
border with Turkey from 1993; (iii) unrest in Georgia severed Armenia's remaining road and rail
trading routes; (iv) the loss of its processing intermediate goods for the Soviet Union; (v) the loss
of subsidies on energy from the Soviet Union were worth an estimated 30 percent of Ar.menia's
GDDP; and (vi) the still largely unrepaired damage to manufacturing and housing from the 1988
earthquake.
5.    GDP declined by 60 percent during 1991-93. Armenia's imports had been 67 percent of
GDP in 1988 with exports at 47 percent. By 1995, imports and exports had shrunk to 52 and 21
percent of GDP, respectively.
6.    GOA enacted early reforms in an effort to remodel its economy, including privatization
of agricultural land, price liberalization, except for bread and utilities, elimination of export taxes
and import restrictions, banking reform and enterprise privatization.
7.    Early reforms did not avert macroeconomic instability. Armenia's domestic inflation
soared because of its continued membership in the ruble area where other member countries,
including Armenia, pursued expansionary monetary and fiscal policies.  The situation
degenerated into hyperinflation in late 1993, in spite of the introduction of a new national
currency, the dram, and reached 900 percent by the end of the year. In early 1994, however, the
GOA pursued contractionary fiscal and monetary policies and by 1995, inflation averaged 2
percent per month. The economy rebounded with 5.4 percent growth in 1994 and 6.9 percent in
1995. Although inflation declined and the economy began to grow, poverty was pervasive with



- 3 -
consumption levels barely above subsistence. Old age pensions were the equivalent of $5 per
month in 1995, while monthly wages in the state sector were $8-17.
SAC II (February 1996 until SAC II Approval, August 1997)
8.    Presidential elections were held in September 1996. After achieving growth of 5.8
percent in 1996, the economy slowed to 3.1 percent in 1997, but is estimated to have accelerated
to over 5 percent in 1998 (see Table 1).
Description
SAC I
9.    The program supported by SAC I was broad, targeting sectors most important to the
transition to a private sector economy. It was supported by a small TA component, the Structural
Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit I (SATAC I) which was approved simultaneously with
SAC I (see Implementation Completion Report for Institution Building Loan and Structural
Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit-Report No. 19229-AM). The total credit was SDR 40.4
million or $60 million and the IDA credit was fully disbursed by original closing date of
December 31, 1997. Project accounts were maintained by the project manager under the
Ministry of Economy (Foreign Economic Relations Department).
10.   SAC I addressed reforms in three major areas and nine sub-areas:
I.    Macroeconomic Stability
II.   Improving Financial Discipline of Enterprises
Trade and Clearing
Energy Policy
Privatization and Private Sector Development
Enterprise Restructuring
Financial Sector Reform
III.  Improving the Efficiency of the Public Sector
Targeting of Social Assistance
Health Reform
Education Reform
Pay and Employment Reform
11.   The International Monetary Fund (IMF) took the lead on macro stability, with the Bank
supporting the program. The energy policy component was perhaps the most important
component because of its financial implications for the economy.
SAC II
12.   SAC II covered policies in four areas covering 10 sub-areas:
I.    Macroeconomic Stability
II.   Improving Financial Discipline in Private and Public Sectors



- 4 -
Strengthen Fiscal Framework
Deepening Reforms in the Energy Sector
Irrigation and Drinking Water
III.   Accelerating Development of the Private Sector
Restructuring the Banking Sector
Completing Privatization
Clarifying Property Rights
Developing Capital Markets
IV.   Ensuring Social Sustainability of the Reforn Process
Strengthening Social Assistance and Insurance
Reforming the Provision and Financing of Education
Health Care Reform
13.   The division labor between the Bank and the IMF was similar to that for SAC I. Energy
reforms continued to be a centerpiece of the adjustment process. IDA financing was SDR43.1
million or $60 million. The closing date is June 30, 1999. Project accounts were maintained by
the project manager under the Ministry of Finance and Economy (Aid Coordination and
Management Center).
B. Achievement of Objectives
14.   SAC I built on the gains of the Rehabilitation Credit. Much of the SAC I program was
completed as a prior board condition.  Combined with the policy reforns under the
Rehabilitation Credit, Armenia's reform process started rapidly and it was the best performing
country in the Confederation of Independent States (CIS). It was also the first country to resume
positive economic growth. SAC II continued the reform program of SAC I, but added the
drinking water and irrigation sectors, and deepened the social assistance, education and health
reforrns.
Macroeconomic Developments
15.   The most significant development leading up to SAC I was the defeat of inflation.
Inflation was already well on its way down when SAC I began. Inflation was 1,885 percent in
1994, was brought under control in 1995 at 31.9 percent and reached 5.8 percent the year SAC I
was effective. Inflation rose to over 20 percent the following year, but was estimated to be only
3.8 percent for 1998. The reason for the surge in inflation in 1997 was the loose monetary policy
pursued during the 1996 election year. Real GDP growth exceeded 5 percent each of the last five
years (1994-98) except for 1997. On the down side, external debt both in dollars and as a percent
of GDP has been rising rapidly. However, debt service as a percentage of exports has held
steady.



- 5 -
Table 1 Selected Economic Indicators
. S S i- y i -1994; i995                 199       199     .19       1
Real GDP % change                 5.4      6.9      5.8       3.1      5.5      4.0
CPI-eop                       1,884.5     31.9      5.8     21.9       3.8      9.9
Broad money-eop growth rate %   684.2     68.7     35.1      8.7      15.2     15.3
Gov't budget balance % of GDP   -16.8     -9.6     -8.6     -5.9     -5.9      -6.5
Balance of Payments-($m)
Curr. acet. bal. (% of GDP)-a  -35.6    -37.5    -26.6    -27.8    -23.7    -21.8
Gross int'l reserves-($m)        32       107      168      247      290      309
Extemal Debt-Total-$m            200      371       614      786      801       895
External Debt-% of GDP           30.8     28.8     38.5     48.3       43      44.2
eop = end of period
a - excludes official transfers
Source: IMF and World Bank
Summary of Major Accomplishments Under SAC I and SAC II
16.   SAC I and II had major accomplishments. Although there were some changes to policy
measures within categories of both adjustment operations, the broad orientation remained the
same.
17.   Trade.  Recognizing that Armenia could succeed only under openness, authorities
pledged to bind tariffs to the World Trade Organization (WTO) at rates not above 15 percent.
Policy-makers reduced bartering for gas supplies. In general, Armenia strove to eliminate the
role of the state in trade and expand the reforms achieved under the Rehabilitation Credit. Tax
allowances for the suitcase trade, which comprised a significant share of trade, were also reduced
by half, from $1,000 to $500 per person.
18.  Energy. Ener,gy .was an extremely important area for SAC operations because of the
large financial implications of reforming vs. not reforming. SAC I built on the gains from uie
Rehabilitation Credit and the increased reliability and duration of electric supply from 12 hours
to 24 hours per day and expanded energy supply to the general populace. GOA reorganized the
energy industry, separating the three major functions of generation, transmission and
distribution. Formerly, the Ministry of Energy (MOE) conducted not only policy and regulation
of the sector, but also management. MOE transferred management to commercial operations,
which operated under a new regulatory framework. GOA also raised electricity tariffs to a level
sufficient to cover operations and maintenance. Collection rates for electricity supply also
improved leading up to SAC I1.



- 6 -
19.   Under SAC II, GOA continued progress in collections from end users of electricity
reaching 70 percent. The Government also became more strict, with large organizations paying
their electric bills. Drinking water companies had to pay an increasing share of their electric bill
and some companies. The energy sector was to be further strengthened by development of a
Financial Rehabilitation Strategy. While GOA agreed in principle with this exercise, progress
was irregular. On the regulatory/tariff side, the reorganization of the MOE was formalized with
the establishment of the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC). Several categories of users,
e.g., veterans and electric company employees, also lost their exemptions in favor of means-
tested cash allowances. Unfortunately, after the release of the second tranche of SAC II, some of
the tariff measures and commitments were rolled back (see section C.).
20.   Water. The main progress achieved in this sector was in assessing and collecting tariffs
with the goal of improving and sustaining water delivery. Collections exceeded 55 percent by
December 31, 1997, but GOA did not implement the revised drinking water tariffs (as per the
LDP, by January 1, 1998).  The Bank concurs with the Government that further tariff
adjustments would be unsuccessful in improving financial viability until enforcement
mechanisms (along with related investments) are introduced.
21.   Privatization. Privatization went reasonably well during both operations as the GOA
established and met quantitative targets under SAC I for small (2,000), and medium to large
enterprises (400). GOA also made improvements in the liquidation procedure. Under SAC II,
another 4,700 small enterprises and 1,504 medium and large enterprises were offered for sale. A
privatization strategy for the power sector was also adopted. The privatization component was
successful, but would have been more economically significant had the conflict over Nagomo
Karabakh not deterred outside investors from participating.
22.   Enterprise restructuring. This component was not as successful. GOA adopted a
bankruptcy law and created a judicial framework, but implementation bogged down due, in part,
to the overly complicated laws. The 11 enterprises identified for restructuring, and privatization
or liquidation were not satisfactorily resolved. Although the cognac and telecom enterprises and
hotels (the latter was not listed) were sold, other large enterprises such as the chemical factories
were not reorganized and continued to be a budgetary drag. Exit mechanisms for these
remaining large firms had not been devised.
23.   Financial sector reform. In terms of dealing with problem banks, financial reform was
successful. SAC I called for the restructuring of the Savings Bank which was confined to only
low risk assets. Via this restructuring, the Savings Bank lowered its cost base and its risk
exposure. State-owned banks were required to improve their portfolios which consisted of a
large percentage of non-performing loans (NPLs). Under the program, these banks sought new
investors, conducted workouts of the weak loans and were able to substantially improve their
balance sheets. CBA's capacity to supervise and regulate according to internationally accepted
accounting principles improved.
24.   Public sector/Safety net. Efficiency improved with respect to targeting, especially on
pension reform. Targeting efficiency also improved with the Basic Benefit Package (BBP) and
primary healthcare, and with the reorganization of schools (including the drafting of school
maps). SAC II accelerated social sector measures and announced a single "Vulnerability Benefit



Programn" to replace the old regime of child allowances and tariff exemptions. However, GOA
did not provide budget resources for this program until January 1999.
25.  In general, during the two adjustment operations, the large majority of reforms were (and
will have been) carried out, albeit at an irregular rhythm, by the respective closing dates of
December 31, 1997 and June 30, 1999. The performance of SAC I and SAC II should be viewed
as a series of operations, preceded by the Rehabilitation Credit, and followed by SAC III
supporting GOA's program of economic stabilization and private sector led, medium-term
growth.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
26.   Although reform progress followed an irregular rhythm, the tranches for both credits
disbursed on time or ahead of schedule. The implementation record was good until the latter part
of 1996, but improved again in Spring 1997. The reason for weak performance during late 1996
to mid-1997 was related to the presidential and, later, governmental elections. The new
government's initial reform commitment was hampered by the fear of unpopularity of reforms.
However, GOA accelerated implementation in the last six weeks of 1997 to compensate for slow
implementation earlier in the year.
SAC I
27.   On implementation progress and development objectives, the SAC I was consistently
rated as satisfactory throughout the project's life. During the last two supervision missions,
achievement of development objectives received a highly satisfactory rating. The first tranche
for $30 million was released on March 22, 1996, slightly ahead of schedule. The second tranche
of $30 million was released on December 10, 1996, 10 months ahead of the expected date.
SAC II
28.   SAC II was consistently rated satisfactory throughout implementation, both on
implementation progress and development objectives. The first tranche for $40 million was
released on September 22, 1997, eight days ahead of the expected date. The second tranche for
$20 million was released on December 29, 1997, well ahead of the expected date. However, as
described in section F. below, the reform process regressed after the second tranche release.
29.   The report from the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated most major aspects of the
preparation of SAC II "satisfactory" with the "Project Concept, Objectives and Approach" and
"Readiness for Implementation" categories receiving a "good" rating, and the "Social Stakeholder
Analysis" receiving a "marginal" rating. The overall assessment at entry was "satisfactory"
(Appendix D).
30.   Factors not generally subject to Government's control. The change in government
during 1996-97 did slow the pace of reform leading up to, and during SAC II. The continuity of
economic personnel that had been preserved from the Rehabilitation Credit through SAC I was
disrupted, as the original economic team was replaced. The new team has taken some time to



- 8 -
establish ownership of the reform program. The implementation of SAC III has shown progress
in this respect. Another factor not subject to Government control was the conflict over Nagorno
Karabakh. This dispute, as mentioned, deterred outside investors from participating in the
privatization process and limited its overall economic significance.
31.   Factors generally subject to Government control. GOA did well in assembling the
original economic counterpart team and holding it together until the changes in government in
late 1996 and early 1997. Members of the team understood and contributed to the reform
program. Later in the adjustment operations, reform momentum followed more of a stop and go
rhythm, and became heavily dependent on supervision input from the Bank. The most serious
problem came after the second tranche release of SAC 11, when GOA went back on several key
conditions for tranche release, most notably tariff reforms in the energy sector (see section F.).
32.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The Ministry of Finance
and Economy (MOFE) worked well with the Bank. MOE contributed to the design and
implementation of a meaningful set of reforrn measures that has helped Armenia advance the
transformation of its economy and resume low inflation growth.
D. Project Sustainability
33.   The Bank and the GOA have set in motion a process of structural reform in the major
sectors of the Armenian economy. The sustainability of this process is promoted by the latest
SAC (SAC III), now under implementation. Sustainability of the SAC I and II initiatives is
ensured in part because many of the measures are very difficult to reverse, such as those related
to privatization.
34.   Still, serious concerns arose after the second tranche release of SAC II (December 1997).
Some of the commitments made to obtain the second tranche release were rolled back. With
SAC III, the reform program is back on track and despite the slippages, overall continued
progress in implementing the objectives of SAC I and SAC II was satisfactory. Future planned
operations (see section H.) support a continued process of reform that will encourage a growing
private sector.
E. Bank Performance
35.   This section critiques the major issues of Bank perfornance on the basis of what was a
reasonable standard at the time and what would have been the best course in retrospect. Overall,
the two structural adjustment operations that followed the Rehabilitation Credit supported
reforms in the key areas of Armenia's economy that promoted private sector-based growth.
* The Bank identified key reform areas.
Inflation came down rapidly and growth turned positive. The Bank program helped
sustain these developments by supporting the macroeconomic framework, facilitating
privatization, reforming the energy sector and improving social safety nets.



-9 -
*  The amount of money earmarked for Armenia did not adequately take into account the
country's balance of payments position.
IDA allocations were actually very substantial considering Armenia's population. IDA
quotas were also based on GDP per capita, and reform performance. However, if
allocations had taken more account of BOP factors such as the fact that Armenia was an
energy importer, unlike some other FSU countries, then Armenia's quota would have
been larger.
* The SAC was closely coordinated with evolving sectoral priorities.
The Bank team involved with the SAC I and SAC II was composed of the country team,
the most expert people the Bank had on each sector in Armenia. Thus, it was far more
likely that the conditions for SAC I and SAC II would match the Bank's sectoral
priorities in Armenia.
* The Bank maintained SAC team continuity and kept component personnel together for major
meetings.
Both the Bank sides and the GOA achieved greater ownership as a result. There was less
rehashing of agreements and implementation went more smoothly. The advantage of
keeping component personnel together for preparation mission meetings was that, while
tedious to listen to discussions of other personnel's components, all could see how the
structural adjustment operation fit together. Comprehending the whole picture won
greater counterpart support for the program.
e The Bank saved money and conducted more intensive supervision by using the core country
team for SAC I and II.
Supervision costs were kept low because Bank staff combined supervision visits to
Armenia with those of neighboring countries (e.g., Georgia). In addition, because the
supervision teams were essentially the country team, they could distribute costs among
other sector projects they were administering, including, later, the SACs. Excessively
long supervision reports were also avoided. Availability of the whole country team for an
adjustment operation tends to be feasible only for smaller countries. Another advantage
to the country teat approach is th.at it gained additional leverage for policy measures and
for sectoral operations. The large envelope of adjustment operation funds gave additionial
leverage to Bank personnel trying to make progress in their respective sector projects.
* A more comprehensive set of impact indicators would have enhanced monitoring efforts.
Quantitative programmatic performance indicators systematically recorded for each component
before, during, and after release of the tranches, could have given a better measure of progress.
General macroeconomic performance indicators were useful for following aggregate economic
performance of Armenia. In the areas of privatization and tariff collections, for example, more
specific, component-related data could have been tracked.



- 10-
• The Bank prematurely released the second tranche of SAC II
Performance after release of the second tranche of SAC II was disappointing. While the
tranche release conditions had been met formally, the GOA had not established a track
record. After release of funds, GOA did not follow through on the major elements and
even rolled back some of the measures as in the case of electricity tariffs and collections.
* Coordination between the Bank and the IMF was effective
The messages from the Bank and the Fund were generally consistent. The IMF did
support the financial rehabilitation of the energy sector, but some argue that the IMF's
fiscal policy stance was not in sync with this goal. Because the GOA budget could no
longer fund subsidies for energy consumption, the energy sector had to let its capital
decline. It could also be argued that a tight fiscal stance increases the pressure for cost
recovery, which is consistent with the energy sector reform program. The IMF began to
relax its fiscal stance between the first and second tranche releases of SAC II.
36.   In summary, the Bank adjusted well to the challenges in a new country undergoing
fundamental economic and political transformations and helped the GOA program of reforms
move forward. The Bank worked well with the Armenian authorities to identify the key areas of
reformn and support the process with intensive supervision.
F. Borrower Performance
37.   As measured by its fulfillment of most of the agreed measures of SAC I and SAC II,
GOA performance is considered satisfactory. in its LDP, the Government committed to a
detailed program of interventions and accomplished most of its objectives specified under the
two operations. Performance was especially good in meeting targets for small and medium scale
enterprises to be transferred to the private sector. There was a newly created Ministry of
Privatization that continued the preparation of enterprises and met privatization targets.
38.   Other strong points of the borrower's performance included assembling a high caliber set
of counterparts. The counterpart team consisted of trained economists who had exposure to
market economics. Later, when a new government took over, the rate of implementation became
very dependent on the presence of Bank supervision. When supervision missions arrived,
implementation picked up, and when they left, it slowed down again. The GOA was very
ambitious in making privatization targets that were also intended to demonstrate political
commitment and pushed implementation to the limits of feasibility.
39.   The PIU, on behalf of the Government, maintained the accounts for SAC I and II in
accordance with sound accounting practices. It was agreed that the credits would be audited
within four months of Bank request. Annual audits were submitted in a timely fashion and were
of acceptable quality. Government compliance with legal covenants under SAC I and II was
considered satisfactory.



- I1 -
G. Assessment of Outcome
40.   The overall performance and outcome of SAC I and SAC II was satisfactory, as the
majority of specific measures, and therefore the major objectives, were achieved and assessed to
be sustainable. This rating is consistent with both the QAG rating at entry (Satisfactory) for SAC
II and the rating by EC4C2 (for SAC I) and by ECSPE (for SAC II) of meeting development
objectives (Form 590), also Satisfactory.  Because they were not investment operations,
calculation of benefits in terms of net present value and economic rates of return for either
project is not applicable.
H. Future Operations
41.   The sequence of SAC I and SAC II was followed by SAC III, effective in December
1998. SAC III supports Government efforts to consolidate macroeconomic stability and lay
foundations for sustained private-sector led growth over the medium term.
I. Key Lessons Learned
42.   The main lessons learned are:
* Counterpart quality. Capable policy people in the government are key to program
performance. In Armenia, the policy team spoke English, studied non-marxist economic
models, and witnessed hyperinflation. This background permitted officials to understand,
contribute to and commit to a comprehensive reform programn.
*  Continuity of SAC teams. It is advantageous to maintain project team continuity on both the
counterpart and Bank sides. There is greater ownership on both sides. There is less
rehashing of agreements. Implementation is smoother.
*  Composition of supervision teams. Supervision teams that are comprised of the core country
team ensure that SAC supported policies will be directed toward the top sectoral priorities.
I ilnluence of fin!ancing gaps on tranche release. Sometimes the pressure to fill financing gaps
can affect policy considerations for tranche release, as in the case of SAC ii's sucol-ld uranche
release. The result can be weak compliance with the reform program if tranche release is
premature.
* Core country teams save budget. More frequent supervisions are possible for the same SAC
budget. Major costs of airfare, hotel, etc., can be distributed over not only the SAC
operation, but also the other sectoral projects that the core country team members are
administering. In other words, the sector budgets supplement the SAC budget. Availability
of the whole core country team for an adjustment operation tend to be feasible for smaller
countries.



- 12 -
* Core country teams give and get added leverage. Another advantage to the country team
approach is that Bank personnel can leverage off the large envelope of adjustment operation
funds to gain support for their respective sector projects. Progress in the sectors feeds back
into the structural adjustment operation, as well, creating a mutually reinforcing reform
process.
*  Adequate supervision. Intensive supervision is a key success factor for projects in new
member countries. Because of lack of familiarity with Bank operations, Armenia required
close and frequent Bank consultations as were provided by the supervision teams.
*  Broad participation in meetings. Having all sectoral personnel present for preparation
mission meetings achieves greater ownership of the program for all involved. While
somewhat tedious to listen to discussions of other personnel's components, all sectoral
personnel can see how the structural adjustment operation fits together. Comprehending the
whole picture wins greater counterpart support for the program.



- 13 -
Part Il. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Studies Included in Project
Table 7A:  Project Costs
Table 7B:  Project Financing
Table 8:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 1 1:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Missions



- 14 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (for SAC I and II)
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Neglible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                     i                1                                 EJ
Sector Policies                    E                                E                 El
Financial Objectives                a               E                0
Institutional Development           0               3                0E0
Physical Objectives                                                                    ml ]  0  l
Poverty Reduction                   E              IXJ               0                 0
Gender Issues                         l               l              E                [
Other Social Objectives             0                                E                 El
Environmental Objectives            El              E                El
Public Sector Management                           [                 [ 0
Private Sector Development         El                                E                 El
Other (specify)                     El              El                 l               E
B. Project Sustainability                                      Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1)                       (z1)                      (/<)
El                        E
Highly
C. Bank Perfonnance                 Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                      E                       I3                         E
Preparation Assistance               D                                                 El
Appraisal                             l                     IJ                         El
Supervision                         n                        3                         E



- 15 -
(Continued)
Higl
D. Borrower Performance          Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
(1)                   (1)                   '(1)
Preparation                       l                                            i0
Implementation                  a:i
Covenant Compliance                                                            El
Operation (if applicable)        Cl                                            I a
HW                                            Hby
E. Assessment of Outcome         satisfactory  Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
El    0M                                      0
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title         Purpose             Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. Rehabilitation Credit  Economic stabilization      FY 95           Closed
and reform
Following operations
1. Structural Adj. TA  Technical support for          FY 96           Closes June 99
Credit I               GOA reform program
and SAC I
2. Structural Adj. TA  Technical support for          FY 98           Under Implementation
Credit II              SAC II and III
3. Structural Adj. Credit  Macro stability and        FY 99           Under Implementation
III                    private sector led
growth



- 16 -
Table 3.A: SAC I Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Preparation                                                                        9/95
Appraisal                                                                      10-11/95
Negotiations                                                                       1/96
Letter of Development/Sector Policy                                                1/96
Board Presentation                                                              2/29/96
Signing                                                                          3/4/96
Effectiveness                                            3/8/96                  3/22/96
First Tranche Release                                   3/31/96                 3/22/96
Second Tranche Release                                  9/30/97                 12/10/96
Project Completion                                                               6/30/97
Credit Closing                                         12/31/97                 12/31/97
Table 3.B: SAC II Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Preparation                                                                   11/96, 3/97
Appraisal                                                                          5/97
Negotiations                                                                       7/97
Letter of Development/Sector Policy                                                6/97
Board Presentation                                      8/26/97                  8/26/97
Signing                                                 9/22/97                  9/22/97
Effectiveness                                            3/8/96                  3/22/96
First Tranche Release                                   9/30/97                  9/22/97
Second Tranche Release                                 12/31/98                 12/29/97
Project Completion                                      3/31/99                  3/31/99
Loan Closing                                            6/30/99                  6/30/99



- 17-
Table 4.A: SAC I Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY96      FY97
Appraisal estimate             30         60
Actual                         30         60
Actual as % of estimate       100        100
Date of final disbursement          12/10/96
Table 4.B: SAC II Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY98       FY99
Appraisal estimate             40          60
Actual                         60          60
Actual as % of estimate       150         100
Date of final disbursement           12/29/97



- 18-
Table 5: Key Indicators for SAC I and SAC II Project Implementation
Estimated                   Actual
1. Key implementation indicators in PAD, Modified, etc.
For all indicators see Policy Matrix-Annex B and Tranche Release Measures-Annex C
Table 6: Key Indicators for SAC I and SAC II Project Operation
Estimated                   Actual
L. Key operation indicators in PAD, Modified, etc.
For all indicators see Policy Matrix-Annex B and Tranche Release Measures-Annex C
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                               Purpose as defined at     Status    Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. NO STUDIES



- 19 -
Table 8.A:1. SAC I Project Costs
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                                Local Foreign      Total       Local Foreign     Total
costs   costs                 costs   costs
I.BoP Assistance                       0      60         60           0       60        60
Total                                   0      60        60           0       60        60
Table 8.A:2. SAC II Project Costs
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                                Local Foreign      Total       Local Foreign      Total
costs   costs                 costs   costs
I.BoP Assistance                        0     60         60           0       60        60
Total                                   0      60        60            0      60        60



- 20 -
Table 8B:1. SAC I Project Financing
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
Item                                Local Foreign      Total       Local Foreign      Total
costs   costs                  costs    costs
IDA                                     0      60         60           0       60        60
Total                                   0      60         60           0       60        60
Table 8B:2. SAC II Project Financing
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
Item                                Local Foreign      Total       Local Foreign       Total
costs   costs                  costs    costs
IDA                                     0      60         60           0       60        60
Total                                   0      60         60           0       60        60
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE



- 21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present Original     Revised    Description of Covenant        Comments
Agreement  Section   Type      Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Credit      4.01     1         C                               Conduct of annual audits       All received by the Bank
Credit      4.01     1         C                               Conduct of annual audits       All received by the Bank
Covenant types:                                                                        Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                           8. = Indigenous people                 C = covenant complied with
2.  Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                10. = Project implementation not covered  CP =complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds        by categories 1-9                    NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                       I1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                      regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                   13. = Other
Table II: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
I .                                  FULL COMPLIANCE
Table 12A: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs for SAC I
Planned                     Revised                       Actual
-Stage of project cycle        Weeks       US$        Weeks               US$         Weeks            US$
Preparation to Appraisal             0        0         45.9             109.7          45.9          110.0
Appraisal                            0        0          6.2              15.3           6.2           15.3
Negotiations through Board           0        0          5.0              12.9           5.0           12.8
approval
Supervision                       24.0     51.1         42.8             105.2          39.6           98.7
Completion                         6.0      8.8          3.0               3.0           1.5            2.8
Total                    30.0      59.9        102.9            246.1           98.2         239.6



- 22 -
Table 12B: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs for SAC II
Planned                   Revised                      Actual
Stage of project cycle        Weeks    US$         Weeks             US$         Weeks          US$
Preparation to Appraisal        40.0    93.6         46.1            109.2         46.6        112.0
Appraisal                         0        0          3.9              9.8          4.0          9.9
Negotiations through Board       5.6    15.5          5.6             15.5          6.3         17.5
approval
Supervision                     37.5    65.3         43.4             89. i        34.5         78.0
Completion                        0        0          6.0              5.0          1.5          2.7
Total                   83.1   174.4        105.0            228.6         91.4        217.4
Table 13.A: Bank Resources: Missions-SAC I
Performance Rating2
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm.  ryopblems3
Year   Persons  Field                      status      objectives
Through Appraisal        11/95       7       11   A, CE, CO, E, F,
PS,S
Appraisal through Board   01/96      6       12   CE, CO, E, F,
approval                                          PS, S
Supervision              04/96       6       12   DC, CE, CO, E,        S            S
F, S
08/96       8       15   CE, CO, E, F,         S            S
PS, S
11/96       6       13   DC, CE, CO, F,       S            S
PS, S
Completion               07/97       --      --                         S           HS
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
A   Agriculture Specialist             HS = Highly Satisfactory        etc.
CD  Country Director                    S = Satisfactory
CE = Country Economist
CO  Country Economist
DC = Division Chief
E = Energy Specialist
F = Financial Sector Specialist
PS = Private Sector Develop. Specialist
S = Social Sectors Specialist



- 23 -
Table 13.B: Bank Resources: Missions-SAC II
Performance Rating2
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm-  Problemso
Year   Persons  Field                        status      objectives
Through Appraisal           11/96      7       12   A, CE, CO, E, F,
PS,S
03/97      6       14   CE, CO, E, F,
PS, S
Appraisal through Board     06/97      5       10   CE, CO, E, F,
approval                                            PS, S
Supervision                 09/97      6       11   CE, CO, E, F,          S            S
PS, S
11/97     11      15   CE, CO, E, F,           S            S
MS, PS, S
03/98      5       7    CE,CO, S               S            S
Completion                  12/98     --       --                          S            S
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
A   Agriculture Specialist               HS = Highly Satisfactory         etc.
CD  Country Director                     S = Satisfactory
CE  Country Economist
CO  Country Economist
DC = Division Chief
E = Energy Specialist
F = Financial Sector Specialist
MS = Municipal Specialist
PS = Private Sector Develop. Specialist
S = Social Sectors Specialist



ANNEX A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



u4.U3tsISnb gLusniumb,bssu1s Sb1U'wnt* n.        ntQlea3l  -bUQrUPflJh*
,  ^                       SUwh~~16aUlzUPth  Sbq-1M1Klt
M(1ISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMY OF THE REPILIC OF ARMENIA
DEPUTY MINISTER
MMHHCTEPCTBO gHHCOB  H SKOHOMKK    PEC CYrJIIKH APMEHHs
3AMECTHTEJI]6 MHHHCTPA
bI;t"-375010, UTIip-.IiwdjuAfu uqi., I
Yetcvai-375010, Melic-Adamian it. I                   ___ ____ ____f                    -If__
Epeaau-375010, ynr. MeABZ-.AAstsa. I
Mr. Lev Freinkman
Country Economist
Poverty Reduction and Economnic Management
E-urope and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
Subject:    SAC I, SAC II, SATAC &  TBL Projects Implementation
Completion Reports
Dear Lev,
I have a pleasure to present to YoQ the Completion Reports of Stuctural Adjustment,
Second Structural Adjusment. Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance and Institutional
Building Projects, which were approved by the Government of Armenia. Also, I would like to
mention that all on-going projects under SATAC would be completed by the end of 1999.
Sincerel
agAzyn



Annex A Page I of 1
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDITS I & II
BORROWER'S COMPLETION REPORT
The first and second Structural Adjustment Credits (SAC 1 and 2) provided by the
IDA to Armenia played a significant role in development of the overall Government strategy
for strengthening macroeconomic stabilization and deepening structural reforms. These
credits constituted the major sources of budget deficit financing for 1996 and 1997 annual
budgets, which allowed the Government to maintain macroeconomic stability without
additional contraction of public expenditures in priority sectors such as health, education,
social security and basic infrastructure. Given the fact that Armenia had quite limited access
to alternative sources of budget support, assistance received under SAC 1 and 2 was, in the
Government's view, of vital importance.
In the Government's opinion these credits were successful in supporting the
Government program of structural reforms. The latter was targeted at substantial reformation
in the energy, water and banking sectors, facilitation of privatization and enterprise
restructuring, further trade liberalization, reforms in the health and education, and
strengthening the social safety net. The policy dialogue with the Bank team during credit
preparation was helpful in better prioritization and identification of the Government medium
term reform objectives. Moreover, the availability of parallel Technical Assistance Credits
proved to be helpful in attaining reform targets set up under the program supported through
the Structural Adjustment Credits. The Government was able to obtain international expertise
needed for reform implementation in a timely manner that was crucial for a dynamic
reformation process and avoidance of delays. Lessons received from preparation of the
Rehabilitation Loan, the first World Bank Group adjustment project in Armenia, were
successfully incorporated into the SAC 1 and 2 agreements. Strong coordination and
complementarity between SAC projects and ESAF project of the IMF was also of vital
importance.
In the Government's opinion, the most successful sectors of the project supported by
SAC I and 2 include:
* Implementation of Privatization Program,
* Progress in the Energy Sector, including increase in cost recovery, sector
restructuring and strengthening of payment discipline,
* Reforns in the Financial Sector, including restructuring of problem banks and
building capacity in the Central Bank for adequate bank supervision, and
* Reforms in the Trade Sector targeted at elimination of barter operations and
phasing out Government participation in foreign trade operations.
At the same time, reforms in the sphere of enterprise restructuring were less
successful. Mainly because of insufficient Government capacity, plans to sell or to liquidate
several selected large enterprises were not completed. Reforms in health and education sector
reorganization, as well as in restructuring of social benefits have been implemented
somewhat slower that it was originally designed. However, the initial process of reforms in
these spheres was to a large extent restored in 1998-1999 under the follow-up project
supported by the IDA SAC 3.



ANNEX B
POLICY MATRIX



Annex B Page 1 of 7
ANNEX B ARMENIA: POLICY MATRIX (SAC III) NOVEMBER 1998
Note: Core actions for 1998 and Proposed Tranche Conditions are in bold. SAC III is a three tranche operation with 2nd and 3rd tranches expected to be disbursed at six
months intervals after Boardpresentation.
Objectives   I                     Current Status                                                   Measures in the LDP
A. CONSOLIDATING MACROECONOMIC STABILITY
Maintain         ESAF Program is effective                                  Satisfactory macroeconomicframework and performance. (2"d and 3d' tranche
sustainable                                                                 condition)
macroeconomic
framework
B. STRENGTHENING PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT AND IMPROVING FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE
B I. Strengthen fiscal management and revenue perfonnance
Improve revenue  The GOA prepared a comprehensive list of remaining tax     1. The volume of tax exemptions to be reduced in 1999 according to the approved
performance      exemptions and approved a timetable to streamline them.    timetable.
2. The High Level Committee for large tax debtors will make decisions on the cases
of at least 50 largest debtors in 1999 and commence collections of receivables. The
overall stock of tax arrears of these 50 enterprises will decline by 20% in real terms
by the end of 1999.
Strengthen       Draft Law on Land Tax was submitted to Parliament to become    The GOA will set up a regulatory framework for land tax administration by local
administration of  effective by 04/01/99.                                   governments. The GOA will make necessary arrangements for efficient collection of
local taxes                                                                 the tax to be provided through cooperation of local governments and local branches
of the State Tax Service.
Improve          1. The GOA set up a Working group, led by the Minister of  1. The GOA will introduce a strengthenedprocess for budget planning, evaluation,
budgetary        Finance and Economy (MOFE), to develop a proposal for      and management, in the context of a medium-term expenditure framework
management       strengthening GOA's budget planning, evaluation and        (MTEF). Specifically, the GOA will confirm institutional responsibilities for
management processes in the context of a medium term      preparation of the MTEF and issue a Decree which will (i) instruct government
expenditure framework (MTEF).                             agencies to contribute to the preparation of the MTEFfor 2000-02; (ii) approve a
timetable, procedurefor preparation, deliberations and approval of the MTEF. (2d
tranche condition)
2. The first MTEF (for 2000-02) will be developed in compliance with the
procedure above and it will be consistent with a longer term macroeconomic
framework. (3'd tranche condition)
The GOA issued a Decree to address the issue of remaining
sectoral extrabudgetary funds and either eliminate these funds or
consolidate them within the state budget.
The GOA approved an Action Plan to strengthen operations of the The GOA will make progress with implementation of the Action Plan
Treasury.



Page 2 of 7
Accelerate inter-  Draft Law on Local Budget Equalization was submitted to the  The GOA will develop a broad strategy for the inter-government fiscal reform,
goverrnent       National Assembly.                                         including reforms in tax and expenditure assignments.
fiscal reforrn
B2. Strengthen public sector management
Strengthen       The GOA approved a decree to introduce in 1999-2000 of the  1. The CBA will prepare an accounting manual for the implementation of IAS by
accounting and    core IAS-consistent accounting standards and conversion of the   commercial banks, setting out not only the Chart of Accounts, but also the fall details
financial        enterprise sector to k4S-consistent accounting. The regulations   for accounting and auditing procedures as well as for IAS-consistent reporting to the
information      would instruct the MoFE: (i) to approve, register and publish  CBA.
system           about 15 IAS-consistent standards in 1998 and 10 standards in
1999; (ii) to select enterprises in the irrigation, drinking water    2. Selected SOEs in irrigation, drinking water, power sector and the airline will
sectors, the airline, about J0 enterprises in the power sector and   complete switch to the lAS. (3d tranche condition)
not less than 50 private enterprises for piloting new standards in  3. The GOA will develop and approve a new Chart of Accounts for the (non-
1999; (iii) to develop and approve in 1999 a new Chart of  banking) enterprise sector; approve new training programs for accountants; and
Accounts.                                                 submit to Parliament amendments to the Accounting Law.
Strengthen audit  The GOA conducted a review of the existing audit arrangements    Authorities will approve a Program to streamline and strengthen audit functions
functions        and identify the areas that need strengthening.            within the public sector (including govermnent agencies, public enterprises and
private entities that receive public financing). Before the end of 1999, the GOA will
make changes in the government structure envisioned in the Program and submit
appropriate amendments to the existing laws.
Public Sector    1. The GOA requested the World Bank to conduct an institutional  1. The GOA, will carry out a comprehensive survey to assess user satisfaction with
Management and  and functional review of the role of the state in a market economy.  the quality of public services and disseminate the survey findings.
Civil Service    2. The GOA agreed on a medium-term civil service reform
reform           strategy.                                                  2. On the basis of the review and survey, the GOA will develop and make public a
3. As a part of the strategy, the GOA:                    program of institutional reforms.
a) finalized and submitted to the National Assembly a Law on
Civil Service;                                            3. The GOA will announce a civil service reform strategy, which will have clearly
b) established appropriate institutional arrangements for  defined quantitative targets, a schedule of implementation, and assignment of
implementing the civil service reform strategy;           institutional responsibilities. The GOA will approve and promulgate implementing
c) agreed with IDA on specific steps on reform implementation,   regulations for the Civil Service Law. The GOA will ensure that all actions
including (i) the dates and outline of a workshop for senior  undertaken will be consistent with the approved 1999 budget and the multi-year
policymakers to explore retrenchment options; (ii) terms of  expenditure framework.
reference for a review of the existing remuneration regime for
civil servants, and (iii) terms of reference for preparation of a  4. The new Civil Service Law will be adopted by the National Assembly.
medium-term training policy for civil servants.
B3. Deepening Reforms in the Energy Sector
Implementation    1. The GOA updated the Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) as  1. The GOA and the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) will have completed a
of the Financial   envisaged under Government Decree No. 555 by: (i) specifying   review with IDA of the implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Plan and
Rehabilitation   mechanisms to mitigate arrears build-up from chronic       have: (i) agreed on inplementation of measures such as tariff adjustment,
Program and      defaulters, including cut-off policy and budget allocations; (ii)   collection of arrears, and other measures defined in Decree 555; (ii) implemented
Tariff Refonn    defining a restructuring schedule for the power, gas and heat    the Debt Restructuring Plan (in accordance with restructuring arrangements) for



Page 3 of 7
I sector's domestic debt (andpayables) accumulated as of    the consolidatedenergy sectorpayables to domestic creditors. (2""and 3T"tranche
Novemnber 1, 1998; and (iii) issuing the necessary regulation  condition)
requiring electricity generation, transmission, ,dispatch, andt
distribution enterprises to begin implementation of at least 10  2. The power sector enterprises would have revalued their assets in accordance with
international accounting standards by January 1, 1999, andt  Government policy to link revaluation to asset value determined by competitive
requiring them to submit their accounts to the Energy     privatization, or based on a 3-year investmentprogram and debt-service
Regulatory Commission (ERC) and the Government on a       requirementsforstate-owned enterprises. (3' tranchecondition)
quarterly basis.
2. With the objective of reaching full cost recovery levels by July
1999, as required under the Energy Law, the Energy Regulatory
Commission have announced: (i) a minimum 12.5% adjustment
in average electricity tariff and thie revised tariff structure to be
effective on 1/1/99; and (ii) a timetable for semi-annual tarif
reviews.
Payment          1. The GOA: (i) has ensured that overall collections (average for  1. To demonstrate satisfactory implementation of the FRP, the GOA will ensure
discipline      three consecutive months) reached 85% of billings; and (Vi)  that: (i) overaU coUections (average for 1999) reach at least 87% of billings; (i) at
cleared all budgetary arrears to the energy sectorfor energy  least 84% of supply is billed; (iii) collections from commercial customers (Le.
supplied in 1998 to budget organizations, drinking water  excluding households, budget organizations, and drinking water and irrigation)
companies, and irrigation,                                average at least 94% of billing for 1999. (2"" and 3'tdranche condition)
2. The GOA has ensured that the 1999 budget will provide  2. The GOA will clear all arrears to energy suppliers accumulated during 1999
sufficient financing for energy consumers in the public sector.    from budget organizations andfrom public sector consumers within the amount
allocated in the budget. (2"" and 3rd tranche condition)
3. To monitor payment discipline in the sector, the GOA will put in place a quarterly
reporting system on public sector consumptiorn limits, actual consumption, actual
payments and outstanding payables.
Regulation       I. The GOA approved a Decree requiring all power sector    1. The ERC would have issued licenses to the 4 consolidated electricity distribution
reform           enterprises to submit, starting from 7/1/99, financial reports in  companies before the mid-1999. The process of licensing of remaining sector
accordance with the [AS for tariff purposes, and requiring all  enterprises will be completed. (2"' tranche condition)
enterprises to undergo in 1999 financial audit by internationally    2. Internationally-qualified auditors would have been appointed to audit 1998 and
qualified auditors.                                       1999 financial statements of Armenergo (transmission and dispatch), Yerevan
Distribution Company, and at least one more electricity distribution company. (2""
tranche condition)
3. The GOA will agree on mechanisms of strengthening the financial independence
and the regulatory capacity of the ERC.
4. The ERC will make progress with implementation of its Working Program. In
particular, (i) rules for power market participants will be issued, including rules for
economic dispatch, operations of a "single buyer", and third party access to common
facilities), and (ii) tariff regulations and market structure for the gas sector (licensees
arrangements and methodology for price setting) will be defined.
5. Power sector enterprises will start to report in accordance with the IAS.
6. International auditors would have completed their audit of the 1998 financial



Page 4 of 7
statements of Armenergo, Yerevan Distribution, and an additional distribution
company and audit arrangements of 1998 financial statements would have been
confirmed (3rd tranche condition).
Privatization of   The Governmentformulated and announced                 1. The offering memorandum will have been approved by the GOA and been
power sector    a Privatization Action Plan for electricity distribution companies  available to potential strategic investors for the Yerevan Distribution Company (2nd
enterprises     to be implemented in 1999. The plan provides that at least the    tranche condition). Bid evaluation for the Yerevan Distribution Company would
Yerevan Distribution Company will be offeredfor privatization    have been completed and negotiations started. (3rd tranche condition)
by 6/30/99, with majority of shares offered to strategic investors,  2. The other three distribution companies will be offeredfor privatization with
and other distribution companies would be offeredfor     majority of shares offered to strategic investors, and incorporating lessons from the
privatization in 1999. International privatization consultants    privatization offering of the Yerevan Distribution Company. (3rdtranche condition)
have been contracted to assist the GOA with the implementation
of the Plan.
Reforming       With the objective of reducing subsidies and improving the heat   The Government will approve its strategy for heat supply and introduce cost cutting
District Heat   supply situation in Armenia, the Government issued a decree  measures for the 1999-2000 heating season, including new district heat tariffs,
requiring energy authorities to prepare, by June 30, 1999, a heat  institutional arrangements, and mechanisms to improve collections. (2^dtranche
supply strategy for the country.                         condition)
B4. Strengthen Fiscal Discipline in Irrigation and Drinking Water Sectors
Institutional   The Government finalized the new structure of the Ministry of  1. Draft Laws on Water and Water Use as well as on Concessions in the Water Sector
building        Agriculture. The new structure provides for efficient consolidation  will be submitted to the National Assembly.
of research, extension, and training function.           2. A study of the organization and management of OME will be completed.
A GOA Decree will mandate a new organizational and management structure for
OME, which will aim at improved operational monitoring andfinancial
management. (2nd tranche condition)
Financial       The GOA issued a Decree adopting a multi-year ( 999 -2005)    1. The GOA will ensure timely implementation of the financial rehabilitation plan.
rehabilitation and financial rehabilitation plan for the irrigation sector (OME and   OME will have collected by mid-1999, as a pre-payment by water users, 10% of
tariff reformn  its affiliates) to increase irrigation water tariffs and cost  the contracted water payments for the 1999 irrigation season. In-kindpayments
recovery, improve tariff colection, delegate retail price setting to   will be abolished as aform of payment. The average wholesale tarifffor the 1999
user associations, work out a debt stock resolution strategy, and   season will be not less than 2.3 dramnzm3. (2"tranche condition)
reduce electricity consumption.                          2. The GOA will announce a differentiated tarifffor the 2000 irrigation season to
be not less than 3.4 dram/m3 on averaga (3dtranche condition)
3. The Government will complete a Study on alternative mechanisms of subsidy
provision in the irrigation sector and will make a decision on its implementation.
Payment         The GOA approved a 1999 financial plan for the drinking water    The GOA will take steps to achieve 65% cash collections of user paymentsfor
discipline      sector based on a comprehensive cash flow of their operations.    irrigation water for the 1999 irrigation season as a whole and monitor these
The plan provides estimates for an expected sector deficit based    collections on a monthly basis. (3d tranche condition)
on realistic estimates for both costs and collections and
incorporates the full amount of sector deficit in 1999 budget draft.



Page 5 of 7
C. ACCELERATING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
Cl. Restructuring the Banking Sector
Ardshinbank                                                               The GOA will sell allpublicly-owned shares in Ardshinbank based on an
independent audit of the 1998 bank's financial statements. (2 tranche condition)
Saving Bank     The GOA approved an action plan for Saving Bank           Audit of 1998 financial statements will be completed.
restructuring and ordered an independent audit of its 1998
accounts.
Banking                                                                   The CBA will raise the general capital adequacy ratio to a level of 12 percent and
Regulation                                                                minimum core capital adequacy ratio to a level of 8 percent effective.
C2. Sustain Privatization and Enterprise Restructuring
Implementation    1. Privatization of all bakeries and rnills that are included in the    1. In accordance with the current privatization program, privatization of 200 large
of the          Privatization Program is completed. For those sector enterprises,   and medium enterprises will be completed each year in 1999 and 2000.
Privatization   which fail to be privatized, the Ministry of Privatization submitted  2. Recommendations of the Privatization Assessment will be incorporated in the
Program         a draft Government Decree on their liquidation.           government actions for implementation of the Privatization Program by adopting
2. The GOA initiated an Assessment of enterprises that failed to    changes in relevant regulations.
be privatized with a focus to enhance privatization methods and
procedures.
Reorganization/L  1. The Prime Minister approved a Decree No. 663 ordering the  1. The liquidation of at least 5 enterprises included in the GOA Decree No. 663 will
iquidation      Ministry of Privatization to initiate in 1999 the liquidation of all  be completed. (2"tranche condition)
enterprises that have failed in three attempts atprivatization.
The Decree also mandated the Ministry of Privatization to  2. The liquidation of at least 15 additional enterprises included in the GOA Decree
complete in 1999 privatization or initiate liquidation proceeding   No. 663) will be completed. (3'tranche condition)
for those enterprises that have been offeredfor sale at least once
as of November 30, 1998.                                 3. At least 20 additional official notifications of enterprise liquidation will be
published. (2dtranche condition)
2. The GOA advanced the liquidation process of the 15
enterprises (including all mills and bakeries thatfailed to be sold  4. Satisfactory implementation of the Decree No. 663. (2"d and 3d'tranche
in 1998) covered in already approved Government Decrees and   condition)
I published official notifications of their liquidation.
C3. Clarifying Property Rights
Land ownership   Law on Title Registration and enabling regulations is submitted to  1. The GOA will build capacity for title registration required by the law.
Parliament to become effective in early 1999.            2. Draft Laws on (i) Agricultural Land Use and (ii) Alienation (Sale) of Publicly
Owned Land will be submitted to the National Assembly.
C4. Developing capital markets
Strengthen      The GOA submitted a draft Law on Securities Market that   1. The Securities and Exchange Commission will be established.
regulatory      provides for establishment of the Securities and Exchange  2. The Government will approve a concept for capital market developments to
framework       Commission.                                              provide a timetable for specific actions in 1999-2000.
Expand market   The GOA adopted a strategy in respect to the organization of a  The Central Depository for securities will be established.
infrastructure  Central Depository for securities and for establishment of one or
more independent bodies for the registration of securities.



Page 6 of 7
D. ENSURING THE SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY OF THE REFORM PROCESS
DI. Strengthening Social Assistance and Insurance
Improve           The GOA adopted a Decree to modify the existing system of  1. The GOA will submit a Draft Law on State Benefits, which will provide a
targeting of     social benefits from 1/1/99. The Decree will initiate: (i) a switch   comprehensive legal framework for family benefits. The draft will ensure resolutions
social protection   to a proxy means-testing based single vulnerability benefit; (ii) a  of all issues mentioned above and will take into account early experience of operating
wider involvement of local governments in the process of  the family benefit program.
beneficiary registration and identification of recipients; (iii) a  2. The GOA will introduce further steps to strengthen efficiency of social assistance:
system of home visit to reduce errors of inclusion, and is fully    (i) Modify weights in the formula for proxy means test as agreed between the GOA
consistent with 1999 draft budget allocations for social  and IDA; (ii) In accordance with the approved Law, amend and expand existing
protection.                                                instructions to provide a comprehensive Operational Manual for the social assistance
workers managing the family benefit; and implement the Manual; (iii) Strengthen the
system of monitoring and evaluation, thorough periodic data collection on
beneficiaries; and (iv) Publish the first evaluation report.
Pension Reform                                                              1. The GOA will prepare a draft Pension Reform Strategy which will focus on (i)
improvement in the sustainability of the PAYG system; (ii) development of a plan for
the introduction of a private pensions; (iii) the feasibility of introducing in the
medium and long term a second pillar to the Armnenia old age insurance system.
2. The GOA will implement specific steps to strengthen sustainabiity of the existing
pension system based on the following principles: (i) tightening eligibility criteria;
(ii) strengthening enforcement mechanisms for collection of pension contributions;
(iii) rationalization of payment mechanisms for pensions; (iv) transferring social
pensions from the list of social insurance benefits starting from the budget of 2000.
In particular, the GOA will start implementation of a plan for introduction of
pension/taxpayer identification numbers.(3ri tranche condition)
D2. Reforming the Provision and Financing of Education
Increase a share   The GOA provided that the share of the draft 1999 budget  I .The GOA will adopt a quarterly monitoring system to report on the amount and
of public        allocated to education amounts to 11% of current expenditures,   structure of actual budget expenditures in the sector that would include allocations
spending         and increased a portion of the education budget allocated to  from both central and local budgets. The first report will be issued in the mid-1999.
general (i.e. school) education, to permit adequatefundingfor
piloting per capita financing and associated reforms. 1999  2. The GOA will ensure accumulation of no budgetary arrears at the end of each
budget presentation included new expenditure items to provide    reporting period in funding to general schools.
funding (i) on a lump sum, per pupil basis to about 150 schools
included in the pilot, and (ii) incremental costs related to
administration and implementation of the pilots.
Rationalization   The Ministry of Education and Science submitted revisedplans   1. The government will approve the plan for piloting of school rationalization and
of the education   for piloting of decentralization, new school status andfunding    related regulations. Introduction of the new status and management structures in
system           mechanism in school year 1999-2000 for 150 schools.       pilot schools will begin as soon as the necessary law and regulations are effective.
Introduction of the newfunding mechanism will startfor the new schoolyear in
September 1999.(2"tranche condition)



Page 7 of 7
2. By late 1999full implementation of the pilots will be under way, with thefirst
phase of rationalization started in at least 3 educational zones, and new school
status andfunding mechanisms introduced in about 150 schools. (3' tranche
condition)
3. The Ministry of Education and Science will submit to the GOA and IDA a full
report on the first stage of pilot implementation, the lessons learned, plans for
extension to other zones for school-year 2000-2001, and proposed modifications in
the process based on initial experience.
1. The Ministry of Education and Science will prepare a strategy for reform of higher
and post-secondary technical education and will establish a system for licensing and
accreditation of public and private institutions. The reform strategy will improve
linkages with secondary education, reassessment of state order criteria, adjustment of
the system to new qualification needs in the public as well as private sectors, and
financing of the system to account for equity as well as efficiency and quality
considerations. The GOA will approve the strategy before the end of 1999.
2. The GOA will approve a national system for pupil assessment and monitoring of
standards in general education.
D3. Reforming the Provision and Financing of Health Services
Increase a share   The 1999 draft budget lawprovides for the share of health  The Govermment will instruct the SHA and to set up a quarterly monitoring system to
of public        expenditures to amount to 11.0% of current expenditures.  report on the amount and structure of actual budget expenditures in the sector. The
spending                                                                   MoH will be responsible for preparing a similar report for expenditures under its
control. The first reports will be prepared by mid-1999.
Restructuring of   1. The GOA provided further rationalization of the BBP system  1 .The GOA will adopt a provider payment mechanism for the SHA which puts a
the health sector  for 1999 budget by changing the structure of the package to  limit of health expenditures.
ensure its consistency with available funding and better reflect
actual costs of service provision.
2 The GOA will approve and make a public announcement on its hospital
2. The Ministry of Health completed the survey of the existing  rationalization. As a part of the plan, the GOA will spell out a specific strategyfor
health sector infrastructure and current use of the available  the gradual reduction of excessive capacity in the sector, including infrastructure
capacity.                                                andpersonnel, to be implemented over next 3-S years.(2"dtranche condition)
3. The GOA decided on increase in tobacco excise to discourage   3. The GOA will ensure accumulation of no arrears in the SHA and the MoH that will
tobacco use.                                              derive from (i) implementation of a good payment mechanism; and (ii) receiving
budgeted amount of funding from the MoFE.
Matx/Final.doc



ANNEX C
MEASURES IMPLEMENTED UNDER SAC I
AND
TRANCHE RELEASE MEASURES FOR SAC II



bThe folowing ky   au eshad ben ikmplm  td dby December 1996:0;i0  00                0   $0      0  
O  ver 4000 ,inall enterpises. andabout 1000)( medium and lag  nerrss(aot6 pere t o  h  oa)hdbe
;rvti~
*   The eeven arge enterprses lcen ia retrutuin progrmhd en                liqudtdo    ei tepoeso  en
ofee frs  -ioftethog   teatoltndrwtthasit                          ofn nenioalrepcd



a           C                ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Ul
Z ill
-         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  "
d £4       ~       fl   ~ t1i ~sr"'4- 
~~tQ j~~~~~~W  tS~~~~~~ff~~~~JA
5  s j   ~~~~~iIt~~i~t 4J1  qgt"
~~j  itij  1 4   J'II~~~~~~~~ ~~  J~~~&  ~1h4 1I  -A~



ANNEX D
QAG SUMMARY



Annex D Page 1 of 2
RAPID QUALITY AT ENTRY ASSESSMENT
Guidance Questionnaire
Summary Assessment Sheet
Region:  ECA         Country: ARMENIA                                   Assessment
Rating
I = Good
Project ID: 44796      Project Name: SAC II                              2 = Satisfactory
3 = Marginal
4 = Poor
1. The Project Concept, Objectives and Approach             C!
2. Technical, Economic and Financial Analyses               L
3. Environment Analyses
4. Social and Stakeholder Analysis
5. Institutional Capacity Analysis                          E
6. Readiness for Implementation
7. Risk Assessment and Sustainability
Project Assessment                                          E
8. Bank Inputs and Processes                                E
Overall Assessment:                                         I3
The overall assessment is not an average of the assessments of the constituent elements of project at entry
quality. Instead, the Panel should use its judgement in weighing the relative importance of each given the
country and the project context. Thus, in making its assessment, the Panel should consider the importance
of each category, and within each category, the various questions, to project success. Questions marked *
are core questions, central to making a balanced assessment.



Annex D Page 2 of 2
RAPID QUALITY AT ENTRY ASSESSMENT
Guidance Questionnaire
Summary Assessment Sheet
Comments on the above assessments, especially for "l ", "3 ". and "4 " ratings.
Program objectives, while ambitious, are clear, probably feasible; track record is good. Attention
to detail is excellent. Social and stakeholder analysis relatively weak.
Comments on the overall assessment
We regard this as highly satisfactory (2+).
In light of this assessment, list two or three factors which will require particular attention for the
next 1-2 year to improve the prospects for achieving the project's development objectives.



