Report No. PIC3005
Project Name                        Armenia-Structural Adjustment Credit
Region                              Europe and Central Asia
Sector                              Economic Management
Project ID                          AMPA42793
Principal Responsible Entity        Ministry of Economy
Date PID Prepared                   December 6, 1995
Appraisal Date                      December 28, 1995
Board Date                          February 15, 1996
Country Background
1.   Armenia is a country of 3.7 million people situated on a crossroads
between Europe, the former Soviet Union, and the Middle East. Turkey
lies to the west, Georgia to the north, Iran to the south, and
Azerbaijan to the east and south-west. Armenia has depended for its
economic growth on its highly educated population and strong
entrepreneurial traditions, in the face of limited natural resources.
Armenia became independent from the Soviet Union in September 1991.
2.   Armenia's economic development is highly constrained by the legacy
of Soviet central planning. Armenia's product composition yielded a
high degree of dependence on trade with the rest of the FSU (exports and
imports represented over 50 percent of GDP during the 1980s) and on
industry (which constituted about 60 percent of Net Material Product).
In the absence of raw materials and primary processing facilities,
Armenia had to rely heavily on imports of semi-finished goods and
critical inputs into domestic industry, particularly of primary energy
resources. Armenia also had a disproportionate share of the Soviet
military-industrial complex. This high degree of integration into the
FSU economy induced economic collapse in Armenia when the intra-FSU
trade, payments and financial system broke down. More fundamentally,
the elimination of non-market pricing in trade between FSU states
imposed a severe terms of trade shock on Armenia, particularly due to
the sharp rise in energy import prices. The lack of comparative
advantage of significant parts of Armenia's productive base was exposed.
3.   In addition, until recently, the structure of government was
largely that inherited from the Soviet Union: a multiplicity of
ministries organized to manage the productive sectors of the economy.
Nevertheless, a strong commitment to a reorientation of the role of
government away from direct intervention in the production has been
established, particularly in the core economic management agencies.
Moreover, the adoption of the new Constitution has initiated a radical
restructuring of government agencies.
4.   At Independence in 1991, the Government of Armenia initiated a
comprehensive structural reform program. Prices of most goods and
services were liberalized in January 1992. The collective farm system
was quickly broken up and land was privatized to smallholders (87



percent of agricultural land is now privately owned). In parallel,
privatization of small enterprises began: 335 enterprises, mainly shops,
had been privatized by mid-1992, although the legal basis for this was
not yet fully developed.
5.   These early successes could not immediately be consolidated due to
the siege conditions imposed by war and blockade. However, with the
easing of the conflict and the development of alternative trade routes,
the structural reform program was reinvigorated in early 1994. In
particular, in January 1994, Parliament adopted a Privatization Program
(implementation commenced in the fall of 1994); subsidies to enterprises
and directed credit were both curtailed sharply during the year; and a
liberal import regime was put in place.
6.   During the second half of 1994, there was intensive dialogue
between the authorities and the Bank on the design of a structural
reform program. This cuinated in the preparation of a Letter of
Development Policy (LDP) and the approval of a Rehabilitation Credit
(Credit No. 2683-AM) by IDA in February 1995 to support implementation
of the LDP. The LDP included policies that: (a) promoted the
development of competitive markets and of the private sector, through
privatization, liberalization and regulatory reform; (b) enhanced
financial discipline for enterprises and banks; and (c) improved the
targeting of the social safety net to the most needy.
The Country's Adjustment Program
7.   The challenge facing Armenia is to achieve an increase in living
standards and a reduction in poverty through a sustained recovery in
economic growth and employment. This recovery will be sustainable only
if it is accompanied by significant investment in productive capacity,
infrastructure and human resource development. At the same time,
increases in investment and consumption levels must be consistent with
balance of payments viability and with low inflation.
8.   At the core of the challenge is a radical restructuring of the role
of the state in Armenia. The Government has begun the process of
reorienting the state away from the direct management of production and
provision of generalized producer and consumer subsidies towards support
for private sector development and a targeting of social expenditures to
the poorest. Extending this process will require a profound
restructuring of fiscal expenditures and measures to promote increased
financial discipline of enterprises.
9.   Efficiency gains will need to be made in key fiscal areas: public
employment policy, the delivery of health and education services, and
the provision of social assistance, while revenue mobilization will need
to be increased. At the same time, enterprise budget constraints will
need to be hardened in order to generate a supply response to new market
conditions and to mitigate the risk that loss-making enterprises will
undermine fiscal adjustment through pressure for subsidies. This will
require that a range of measures be taken to enhance financial
discipline of enterprises through privatization, financial sector
reform, external trade liberalization, energy sector reform and
enforcement of creditors' rights.
-2-



10. The primary objective of the next phase of structural reform, to be
supported by the proposed SAC, is to continue reorienting the state away
from direct management of the economy and a heavy reliance on subsidies.
The emphasis of government policy will be on creating the conditions for
the private sector to be the engine of growth in Armenia, while
providing adequate provision of social services and protection for the
most vulnerable groups in society. This process will require greater
financial discipline for enterprises which will stimulate adjustment to
new market conditions thereby promoting competitiveness and efficiency
in the economy (and relieving political pressures for subsidies). It
will also require fiscal restructuring to allow for a more efficient
allocation of government expenditure and higher public savings.
Achievement of these goals will help sustain the fiscal restraint
necessary to achieve price stability and promote private investment and
economic growth.
The Proposed Credit
11. The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit would be for the SDR
equivalent of US$ 63.4 million. The credit will include an import
financing component (the SDR equivalent of US$ 60 million) and a
technical assistance component equivalent to US$ 3.4 million. The
foreign exchange proceeds of the import component of the credit will be
sold by the Central Bank of Armenia or will be held in reserves, in
accordance with the objectives of monetary policy.     The import
component will be released in two tranches of equal size: the first on
effectiveness and the second on fulfilent of specific tranche release
conditions and, if general progress on implementation of the LDP
(including attainment of its macroeconomic stabilization objectives) is
also satisfactory. The technical assistance component would facilitate
implementation of the economic reform program. The credit would be on
standard IDA terms, including a 35 year maturity and a 10 year grace
period.
12. Poverty Category: Poverty-focused. The proposed credit would
support improvements in the targeting of social benefits to the poorest
groups and in the provision of primary health care.
13. Environmental Category: The project will have no direct impact on
the environment. For the purposes of OD 4.01, it has been place in
Category U which does not require an environmental assessment.
14. Benefits: The implementation of the structural reforms supported
by the proposed SAC will promote reorientation of the Armenian state
away from direct intervention in the economy. Enterprises will be
stimulated to adjustment to the new incentive framework and the
conditions will be created for the private sector to become the engine
of growth. At the same time, efficiency gains in social service
provision and improved targeting of protection for the most vulnerable
groups in society will promote human resource development and poverty
alleviation. Fiscal adjustment and financial discipline of enterprises
will increase both public and private savings, thereby promoting price
stability, investment and growth.
15. Risks: There is a risk of stabilization and structural reforms
-3 -



being undermined by sociopolitical opposition if economic recovery does
not proceed fast enough to satisfy rising expectations. The
implementation of the reform program could be undermined by
institutional deficiencies, although the ongoing reorganization of the
pubic administration and the provision of technical assistance by the
World Bank Group and by other donors will help to counteract this risk.
There is a substantial risk of the international community providing
insufficient balance of payments financing in support of stabilization
and structural reform, which would entail an unsustainable level of
poverty. However, the Consultative Group process of donor coordination
is designed to mitigate this risk.
Task Manager:
Jonathan Walters, EC4C2
(202) 473-2468 (tel)
(202) 477-3378 (fax)
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



