Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2824 AM 
Development Credit Agreement
Structural Adjustment Credit
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 4, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2824 AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated January 25, 1996 from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program and 
requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently needed imports 
and services required during such execution;
(B)
the Borrower has undertaken to carry out a Structural Adjustment 
Technical Assistance Project in support of the Program under a Structural Adjustment 
Technical Assistance Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association of even 
date herewith; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Development Credit Agreement."
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account the 
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions. Except as the Association 
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member 
of the Association or for goods produced in such territories; or (b) 
for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, 
if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations"; and
(d)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)   Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the `
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Armenergo" means the Armenia State Electricity Company established 
pursuant to Decree No. 148-GM of the Borrower's Ministry of Energy and Fuel, dated 
December 26, 1995 and includes any successor or successors thereto;
(b)
"Armgas" means the Armenia State Gas Company established pursuant to the 
Government Decree No. 99, dated March 2, 1994 and includes any successor or successors 
thereto;
(c)
"Bankruptcy Law" means the bankruptcy law of the Borrower dated June 15, 
1995;
(d)
"CBA" means the Central Bank of Armenia and includes any successor or 
successors thereto;
(e)
"Environmentally Hazardous Goods" means goods manufactured, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party;
(f)
"Savings Bank" means the Savings Bank of Armenia and includes any 
successor or successors thereto; and
(g)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev. 3 (1986).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 40,400,000).
Section 2.02.   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Page  3
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: 
 
(i)
from the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the 
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and
(ii)
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
 
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
 
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September
15 commencing March 15, 2006 and ending September 15, 2030. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on September 15, 2015 shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:
 
(i)
the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as determined by 
the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars 
for five consecutive years, and
(ii)
the Association shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Association lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review 
and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association 
and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice 
the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so 
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such 
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in 
the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided 
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
Page  4
repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Unites States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of  Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program,
or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit  shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or customs 
certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  5
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a)
a Company Law shall have been adopted by the Borrower's legislature; and
 
(b)
the 1996 Privatization Program shall have been adopted by the Borrower's 
legislature.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1 Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  6
the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Rouben Shougarian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower;
      Group         Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                -            Alcoholic beverages
      121                -            Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                      refuse
      122                -            Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                      not containing tobacco substitutes)
      525                -            Radioactive and associated materials
      667                -            Pearls, precious and semi-precious
                                      stones, unworked or worked
      718            718.7            Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
                                      fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                      irradiated, for nuclear reactors
      728.43             -            Tobacco processing machinery
      897            897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                      group metals (except watches and
                                      watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                      silversmiths' wares (including
                                      set gems)
      971                -            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                      gold ores and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
Page  7
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another loan;
(d)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose 
or for luxury consumption; 
(e)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed eight million eighty 
thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,080,000) may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before 
such date but after November 1, 1995;
(f)
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any 
import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
(g)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent; and
(h)
expenditures for Environmentally Hazardous Goods.
 
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent may be permitted by the Association 
upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify.
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached the equivalent of SDR 20,200,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, 
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program;
 
(b)
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been 
taken; and
(c)
that the macro-economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent 
with the objectives of the Program as measured on the basis of indicators satisfactory 
to the Bank.
5.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Association,  then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Page  8
Guidelines, subject to
the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Borrower's Commercial Practices
1.
Goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured:
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, under contracts awarded in accordance with 
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the 
Association; and
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation comparison of 
quotations from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct contracting 
procedures acceptable to the Association may be used where considered appropriate 
under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Traded Commodities
2.
Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly traded commodities 
may be procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract to be awarded under Part B, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2.3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has furnished to the Association a satisfactory evidence showing 
that Armenergo's total collection rate for payments from customers has been:  (i) 
during the period from January 1, 1996 to July 1, 1996, sixty percent (60%) of total 
electricity supplied by it; and (ii) during the period from January 1, 1996 to 
December 31, 1996, seventy-five percent (75%) of total electricity supplied.
2.
The Borrower has maintained the average electricity tariffs charged by Armenergo 
enabling Armenergo to cover operating and maintenance costs.
3.
Achievement of  progress satisfactory to the Association in implementing the 
Borrower's privatization program.
4.
The eleven enterprises selected upon agreement with the Association and placed 
in the Borrower's enterprise restructuring program have been undergone their final 
offer for privatization or liquidation proceedings for these enterprises have been 
initiated.
5.
Enactment of  legislation amending the Bankruptcy Law to provide, inter alia, 
for debtor reorganization and enactment of an insolvency law for banks which shall 
include administration
and liquidation procedures for banks.
6.
Adoption by the CBA and the Borrower of a restructuring program for the Savings 
Bank satisfactory to the Association.
7.
Submission to the Association of satisfactory evidence that overdue amounts for 
the purchase of gas and other goods in the gas account maintained by Armgas for gas 
Page  9
purchases have not, at any time from the date of this Agreement, exceeded the cash 
balance available in such account.
8.
Adoption by the Borrower of a health financing strategy satisfactory to the 
Association.
9.
The Borrower has finalized the report presenting the status of primary, 
secondary and technical education facilities.
