RESTRICTED
FT   E     COPY                Report No. PI604
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 29, 1968



REPORT AND REOOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDEAT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF IVORY COAST FOR A HIGM4AY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a propcsed
highway loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$5.8 million
to the Republic of Ivory Coast.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      In May 1966, the Government applied for Bank assistance in the
financing of three priority road projects, identified with the help of
the Bankls Permanent Mission in Western Africa. They involved (i) the
reconstruction and improvement of the Abengourou-Agnibilekrou road, which
constitutes a section of the main North-South road connection in Eastern
Ivory Coast, (ii) the improvement of the Abidjan-Abengourou road, which
constitutes the principal section of the above-mentioned North-South axis,
and (iii) the improvement of roads in the "Banana Region", North of Abidjan.
3.      A Bank project appraisal mission visited the Ivory Coast in April/
May 1967, when detailed engineering by consultants of the Abengourou-
Agnibilekrou road had been partly completed. It was found that Bank
consideration of construction financing for the other two projects would be
premature. The proposed betterments to the Abidjan-Abengourou section were
too dispersed or too small to form a suitable basis for Bank financing.
Furthermore, the Government was - and still is - considering alternative
alignments for the road. The third project, the proposed road improvement
in the "Banana Region", lacked sufficient technical and economic data.
The Government then requested that the proposed Bank project should
cover the financing of preinvestment studies for high priority roads which
would include comprehensive project preparation of the Abidjan-Abengourou
road.
4.      Formal negotiations took place in Washington in March 1968.  Tle
borrower was represented by Mr. Hovine, Director General of the Caisse
Autonome dlAmortissement,  as head of the delegation, as well as by Mr.
Grah Kadji, Director General, Ministry of Public Works, and other represent-
atives from the M4inistry of Public Works and the Ministry of Planning.
5.      The proposed loan would be the first lending operation by
Bank/IDA   in the Republic of Ivory Coast since its independence. In 1954,
the Bank made a loan (100-FR) of $7.5 million equivalent to the Office
Central des Chemins de Fer de la France d Outre-Ner for the acquisition
of diesel locomotives for the Dakar-Niger. and Abidjan-Niger railways.
The loan has since been fully repaid.
6.      It is expected that another loan proposal, for the extension of
oil palm and coconut plantations and oil processing in Ivory Coast, will
be submitted to the Executive Directors in the last quarter of 1968.
Next operations in line may be an education project, and a cocoa rehabi-
litation project.



- 2 -
7.       In 1965, IFC made an investment in Ivory Coast consisting of a
participation equivalent to $204,000 in the capital of the Banque Ivoirien-
ne de Developpement, Abidjan.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.       Borrower:               The Republic of Ivory Coast
Purpose:                (i)  The reconstruction and the paving
of the 60 km Abengourou-Agnibi-
lekrou road including supervision
of construction;
(ii)  Preinvestment studies:
(a) feasibility studies of about
700 Im of primary roads;
(b) the detailed engineering of
about 500 Ian of road sections
identified as of high priority
from the feasibility studies
under (a) above.
Amount:                 US$5.8 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Amortization:           19 years, including a 3 1/2 year period
of grace. Repayment in seim;ii- 3riual
installments beginnirg on January 15,1972,
and ending on July 15, 1987.
Interest rate:          Standard rate.
Commitment charge:      3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.       A detailed description of the proposed project is given in the
attached report entitled "Appraisal of a highway project - Ivory Coast"
(TO-619a of April 30, 1968).
10.      The Ivory Coast has an extensive road network serving all major
parts of the country except the extreme southwestern region. The 33,000 km
of public roads are generally well balanced between primary and secondary
roads and carry about 70% of all traffic. Only about 3% of the road system
is bituminized; these sections carry approximately 50% of the total road
traffic. The remainder of the network consists of earth roads and of
laterite roads which are well maintained,even in areas subject to torrential
rains.



However, higher road design standards will be needed in the future to meet
growing traffic requirements.
11.      Although the Ivory Coast has a ten-year plan (1960-1970), decisions
on road investment have hitherto been taken on a pragmatic basis rather
than as a result of thorough sector and project analysis.   However, planning
in the transport sector is expected to improve substantially under the next
five-year plan 1971-75, as a result of a UNDP-financed transport survey for
which the Bank will act as executing agency. The survey will include the
preparation of a transport investment program for the period 1971-75 and
the completion of pre-investment studies for selected highway projects.
12.      The cost of the proposed project is estimated at $7.9 million
equivalent, including contingencies. The proposed Bank loan would finance
the foreign exchange component estimated at $5.8 million equivalent, or 73%
of the total project cost. The Government would provide the balance of
27%. The project is in two parts. The first consists of pre-investment
studies which would provide the basis for the selection of high priority
projects suitable for international financing in 1969-70. For these studies,
the loan would provide about $2 million. The second and more important
part of this project consists of the reconstruction and bituminous paving
of the Abengourou-Agnibilekrou road, for which about $3.8 million would
be made available out of the loan.
13.      This road forms the main link to Ghana and connects the notheastern
zones of the Ivory Coast with the main port of Abidjan. The present two-
lane road is a badly aligned track, with narrow bridges and sharp curves,
improved by a laterite surfacing. The project provides, inter alia, for a
realignment of the road that would reduce its length from 69 km t-o60 km.
1.      It is expected that construction of the project road, under a
single contract to be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding, will commence in the fall of 1968. Prequalification of international
contractors has been completed and bids will be submitted in August 1968.
For purposes of bid evaluation, customs duties and indirect taxes and
duties will be excluded. The construction period will be about two years.
It is expected that the pre-investment studies will begin in August 1968 and
that final engineering will be completed in the second half of 1969. Inter-
national consultants, acceptable to the Bank, will be engaged by the
Government.
15.      The directly quantifiable benefits from the reconstruction of the
project road have been calculated on the basis of savings in vehicle
operating costs and road maintenance costs with and without the proposed
road improvement. An effort has been made to test the sensitivity of the
economic rate of return on the investment to variations in the estimates
of present traffic and future traffic growth. On this basis, expenditures
on the road would yield an annual economic rate of return ranging between
9.5 and 12%. This is considered satisfactory for projects of this nature.



- 4 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMEMTS AND AUTHORITY
16.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Ivory Coast and the Report of the Comittee provided for an Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.  The draft Agreement conforms substantlal-
ly to the usual pattern for projects of this kind.   However, in view of
the constitutional autonomy of municipalities in the Ivory Coast, the
negative pledge clause (Section 5.05) departs from the usual form and, as
in previous analogous cases, excludes liens on assets of municipalities
which do not result in priority in the allocation or realisation of foreign
exchange but in respect of other liens of municipalities obligates the
Borrower to make the negative pledge clause effective "within the limits
of its constitutional powers". If the Borrower should be unable to make
the above-mentioned undertaking effective, it would give the Bank an equiva-
lent lien or priority in the allocation or realization of foreign exchange
satisfactory to the Bank.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.      A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Tvory Coast" (No.AF-61a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
August 11, 1967 (R67-130). An economic mission which visited the Ivory
Coast in March 1968, and whose report is in the final stage of preparation,
confirmed that the main findings of the 1967 report remain valid. Ivory
Coast's performance in achieving economic growth has been good; since the
opening of the deepwater port of Abidjan in 1952, the country has experiencec
a continuous and fast growth of its economy, reflected in a quadrupling of
exports between 1953 and 1967, and an annual growth rate of GDP averaging
8.7% at constant prices between 1960 and 1966. Over the same period, per
capita incomes have increased from $157 to $239 equivalent.
18.      This continuous high rate of economic growith has been achieved
despite the almost complete lack of mineral deposits; it was the result of
an increased production of agricultural export products and forestry which
in turn stimulated the growth of manufacturing production to cover the
expanding local demand. As the bulk of agricultural products stems from
small African farmers, the economic growth has benefited a relatively large
segment of the population, not only in towns, but in the countryside as well.
It has been accompanied by official policies to stimulate private initiative
and to facilitate private investment, local and foreign. Africanization has
not been allowed to impair efficiency in the private and the public sectors.
Combined with a conservative but not too restrictive financial policy by the
Government, these policies have enabled the country to take advantage of the
economic opportunities existing at the time of independence.
19.      The outlook for the next decade is continued growth, although a
growth rate of 6 to 7% in constant prices will be the most that can reason-
ably be expected. Past growth was based mainly on three products, coffee,
timber and cocoa.  For two of them, coffee and timber, future growth
prospects are limited; in the case of coffee, exports will probably not



grow faster than the increase in world demand which is expected to average
2 1/2% per annum, whereas in the case of forestry, the growing depletion
of forestry resources will not permit any increase of production and will
probably result in reduced timber exports. While new agricultural products
have been developed over the last few years, total output of these new
products (bananas, pineapples, rubber, palm oil, cotton,etc) - although
increasing rapidly - has not yet reached the magnitude necessary to replace
coffee and timber as new bases for further economic development. Diversifi-
cation of agricultural production and, to a greater extent, the expansion
of manufacturing production for export are handicapped by the high cost
structure of the Ivory Coast economy. In coffee, cocoa and timber, Ivory
Coast enjoys high competitive advantages.
20.      Relatively high government revenues, averaging 18% of GDP since
independence, combined with limited growth of current budget expenditures
and a high level of assistance received from France, have in the past
enabled the Government to save about 30% of its current revenues and to
finance over 75% of public investment out of these savings. Howiever, in
the future, an increasing demand for current expenditures and a reduced
growth rate of revenues will result in reduced government savings, so that
a higher percentage of public investment w-ill have to be financed by
foreign resources; at the same time, the low external public debt burden as
reflected in a debt service ratio of less than 5% of exports of goods and
services, gives the Ivory Coast considerable leeway to increase its ildebted-
ness on conventional terms. However, over the next five years, the Govern-
ment will be reducing a considerable part of this potential as a result of
loans to be incurred for the implementation of two major investment projects,
the port of San Pedro and the Kossou dam and power station (Bandama), invest-
ments which are unlikely to show quick returns. Although the outflow of
investment income and of personal remittances by a large number of foreigners
working in the Ivory Coast have increased considerably, the surpluses on
external trade, supplemented by the inflow of capital, have remained suffi-
cient over the last few years to show small over-all surpluses in the balance
of payments. Net external assets imputed to the Ivory Coast within the West
African Monetary Union remain high. They stood at CFAF 14.5 billion
($58 million) by the end of 1967, equivalent to more than three months of
imports. Barring major changes in world.'narket conditions for coffee and
cocoa, no marked change in this situation is expected.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
21.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bankc.
PART VII - RECOMENDATION
22.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:



- 6 -
RESOLUTION No.
Approval of a Loan to the Republic of
Ivory Coast in an amount equivalent
to US$5,8oo,ooo
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Ivory Coast
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million eight
hundred thousand United States dollars (US$5,800,000) to mature on and
prior to July 15, 1987, to bear interest at the rate of six and one
quarter per cent (6-14%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and
conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the form of the Loan Agreement (Highway Project)
between the Republic of Ivory Coast and the Bank, which has been presented
to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
Nay 29, 1968



