CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1095 KO
Loan Agreement
(KDB Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
DATED MARCH 31, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1095 KO
Loan Agreement
(KDB Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
DATED MARCH 31, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and THE KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK, (hereinafter called the Borrower), a
statutory body established and operating under the laws of the Republic of Korea
(hereinafter called the Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b)
of this Agreement.
(b)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan in an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment.
(d)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment.


﻿4
(e)   "W-" and "Won" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(f)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Guarantor.
(g)   "Act" means The Korea Development Bank Act of the Guarantor dated
December 30, 1953, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h)   "Decree" means the Enforcement Decree of The Korea Development
Bank Act, enacted on January 18, 1954 by Presidential Decree No. 858, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(i)   "By-laws" means the By-laws of The Korea Development Bank dated
February 16, 1954, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(j)   "Operating Manuals" means the Operating Manuals of The Korea
Development Bank, dated April 1, 1954, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(k)   "Share-holding  Act"  means  The   Korea  Development   Bank
Share-holding Act, dated August 4, 1969, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(1)   "Enforcement Decree No. 1" means the Enforcement Decree of The
Korea Development Bank Share-holding Act, enacted on October 6, 1969, by
Presidential Decree No. 4100, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(m)   "Special Act" means the Special Measures Act Governing Overdue
Loans of Banking Institutions, dated August 3, 1966, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
(n)   "Enforcement Decree No. 2" means the Enforcement Decree of the
Special Measures Governing Overdue Loans of Banking Institutions, enacted on
August 12, 1966, by Presidential Decree No. 2702, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
(o)   "R.C. Decree" means the Readjustment Corporation Decree enacted
on February 20, 1962, by Cabinet Decree No. 459, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
(p)   "Policy Statement" means the statement of lending and investments
policy approved by t- Board of Executive Directors of the Borrower on
October 12, 1970, as the same may be amended from time to time.


﻿5
(q)   "Corporation" means the Readjustment Corporation     established
pursuant to Article 53(111) of the Act.
(r)   "Company" means the Korea Industrial Leasing Company, a company
existing under the Laws of the Guarantor.
(s)   "Subsidiary" means any company or a statutory body of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned
or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of
the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more of its subsidiaries, provided,
however, that for the purposes of Sections 3.05, 4.03 and 4.06 of this Agreement
"subsidiary" shall be deemed to mean only the Corporation and the Company.
(t)   "Guarantee Release Arrangement" means the arrangement to be made
by the Guarantor relating to the potential risks arising as a result of KDB's issuance
of direct or indirect external repayment guarantees on foreign loans.
ARTICLE 11
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for amounts expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project or,
if the Bank shall so agree, for expenditures required to be made by the Borrower
for an Investment Project, to finance the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods
and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal
is requested; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a sub-loan or investment unless (i) the sub-loan or investment shall have been
approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which
the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of (i) $750,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or (ii)
$18,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or


﻿6
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts
being subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c)  Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterpcise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval, or in respect
of an investment, if such expenditures shall have been made before the date of
this Agreement or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and
information required by Section 2.03(a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit
sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required
by Section 2.03(b) of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan)
or an investment to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan) and the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the
Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section shall be submitted to the Bank on or before June 30, 1977.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borroweri and the
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.


﻿7
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bank
to the extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the schedules of
repayment to the Bank in respect of investments, which have been approved or
authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of
the General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section
2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made
on June 1 and December 1 in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1
shall include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b)   The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment to the Bank in respect of each investment shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree (i) shall not extend beyond 18 years, including a three-year period of grace,
from the date of approval by the Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the
case of a free-limit sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest
or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)   If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the Borrower in
advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower,
the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08(a)
of this Agreement, the amount withdraw. from the Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.


﻿8
(b)   Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by the Bank
as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
in amounts corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities
of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an investment,
pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid
on account of such investment.
(c)   Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions shall not apply
to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
financing such productive facilities and resources in the Republic of Korea as will
contribute to the economic development of the country. The Project consists in
the financing of specific development projects through loans to and investments
in enterprises in the Republic of Korea, in furtherance of the corporate purposes
of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices, with
qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with the Act, the Decree,
the Operating Manuals and the Policy Statement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that
it shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be financed Gut of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also
of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the


﻿9
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the
Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
shall cover marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure
by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with
the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, for its prior approval, any
substantial changes proposed to be made by the Borrower in respect of the
repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and
the sub-loans and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations under
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal
of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its agencies or others for relending, investment
or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any
material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause each of its subsidiaries to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the extent to which
stch obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations were
binding upon such subsidiary.


﻿10
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt, except as otherwise
currently reported or disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or any subsidiary
as security for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower or of any subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to


﻿11
maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section
4.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Borrower which, in the judgment
of the Bank, will materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreen oetween the Bank and
the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than 5 times
the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and its subsidiaries. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means (i) any debt incurred by the Borrower or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
and (ii) all guarantees except those covered by the Guarantee Release Arrangement.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agre(.ment (including the Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the
amount of the loan is drawn, down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract
or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Won debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(d)   "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries" means the
total amount of debt of the Borrower and subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt
owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower
or to any other subsidiary, and (ii) any debts guaranteed by the Borrower pursuant
to the Act o- the Decree.
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and subsidiaries"
means the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower


﻿12
and its subsidiaries, after exc!uding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
in'.erests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in the Borrower
or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank
as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Won) used in its lending
and borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and subsidiaries, and the progress of the Project.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having
an original maturity o* one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractLal instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   a change shall have been made in the Act, the Decree, the By-laws,
Operating Manuals, Share-holding Act, Enforcement Decree No. 1, Special Act,
Enforcement Decree No. 2, or R.C. Decree which will materially and adversely
affect the financial condition or operations of the Borrower;
(c)   a change shall have been made in the Policy Statement without the
Bank's consent;
(d)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of the Borrower;


﻿13
(e)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversel"i affect the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial
situation or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project; and
(f)   a default shall have occured in the performance of any obligation or
undertaking on the part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Guarantee
Release Arrangement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any of the events specified in paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of Section
5.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)
or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur.
*                                       ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   That the execution and delivery of the Guarantee Release Arrangement
on behalf of the Guarantor and the Borrower, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(b)   That the Borrower has adopted revisions, satisfactory to the Bank,
to its Policy Statement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Guarantee Release
Arrangement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Guarantor and the Lcarower, respectively, and is legally binding
upon the Guarantor and the Borrower in accordance with its terms.


﻿14
Section 6.03. The date June 30, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        /Telex:
INTBAFRAD                             440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)/
For the Borrower:
The Korea Development Bank
140-1, 2-ga Namdaemun-ro
Choong-gu
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:                        /Telex:
KODEVELBANK                           KODBANK K 27463/
Seoul
IN WITNESS WHFREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿15
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / G. B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
THE KOREA DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s / Yoon Sae Yang


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)**
June 1, 1978                                           1,025,000
December 1, 1978                                       1,070,000
June 1, 1979                                           1,1 15,000
December 1, 1979                                      1,160,000
June 1, 1980                                           1,210,000
December 1, 1980                                      1,265,000
June 1, 1981                                           1,315,000
December 1, 1981                                       1,375,000
June 1, 1982                                           1,430,000
December 1, 1982                                       1,490,000
June 1, 1983                                           1,560,000
December 1, 1983                                       1,620,000
June 1, 1984                                           1,690,000
December 1, 1984                                       1,760,000
June 1, 1985                                           1,840,000
December 1, 1985                                       1,915,000
June 1, 1986                                           1,995,000
December 1, 1986                                      2,080,000
June 1, 1987                                          2,170,000
December 1, 1987                                       2,265,000
June 1, 1988                                          2,355,000
December 1, 1988                                       2,460,000
June 1, 1989                                          2,565,000
December 1, 1989                                      2,670,000
June 1, 1990                                          2,785,000
December 1, 1990                                      2,905,000
June 1, 1991                                          3,025,000
December 1, 1991                                      3,155,000
June 1, 1992                                          3,290,000
December 1, 1992                                      3,440,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalent determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the G\neral Conditions or to Section 2.09(a)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                          2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than fourteen
years before maturity                          6-3/4%
More than fourteen years
but not more than
sixteen years before
maturity                                       7-1/2%
More than sixteen years
before maturity                                8-1/2%


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application of such
prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph
(b) of this Section.
(2)  The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Bank
in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall
have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests
or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


