Document oI
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22471
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42200)
ON A
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINA
FOR A
PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN - SAN JUAN
06/28/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Peso
ARG$ 1 = US$ 1
US$ 1 = ARG$ 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOCEP                      Private Job Creation Bond
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
DGI                        Direcci6n General Impositiva
EGB                        Educacion General Bcisica (General Basic Education)
ERR                        Economic Rate of Return
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
HQ                         Headquarters
IBRD                       Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                        Implementation Completion Report
IDB                        Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                        International Monetary Fund
LPR                        Letters of Provincial Reform
OECD                       Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OSP                        Provincial Medical Insurance Fund
PDP I                      First Provincial Development Project
PDP II                     Second Provincial Development Project
PRESSAL                    Provincial Health Sector Development
PRISE                      Programa de Reformas en el Sector Educaci6n
(Reforrn Program on Education Sector)
PRL                        Provincial Reform Loan
PRL II                     Second Provincial Reform Loan
PRODYMES I                 Secondary Education Reform I
QAG                        Quality Assurance Group
SESP                       Secretary for Public Health
TM                         Task Manager
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:   Ernesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Mark Hagerstrom



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL REFORM - SAN JUAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 13
6. Sustainability                                                                     15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    18
9. Partner Comments                                                                   21
10. Additional Information                                                            21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  36
Annex 3. Economnic Costs and Benefits                                                 38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P051694                                      Project Name: P.RFM(S.JUAN)
Team Leader: Mark V. Hagerstrom                          TL Unit: LCC7C
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: P.RFM(S.JUAN)                                 L/C/TF Number: SCL-42200
CountryIDepartment: ARGENTINA                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/25/96                               Effective:  12/31/97          04/24/97
Appraisal:  04/07/97                                 MTR:
Approval:  08/26/97                               Closing: 12/31/99           06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MIN. OF ECONOMY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     David de Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Myma L. Alexander                        Gobind Nankani
Sector Manager:      Emesto May                               Paul Meo
Team Leader at ICR:   Mark V. Hagerstrom                      Maria Emilia Freire
ICR Primary Author:   Mark V. Hagerstrom
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: TiN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
1.     Designed to help the province of San Juan to reform its public sector so as to ensure an efficient
and responsive delivery of public services (notably social services) within fiscally sound policies. The
objectives are the following:
A. Fiscal and public finance: Improve tax collection and administration to promote higher
reliance on own-source revenues; Civil service reform and reduction of personnel expenditure as



percentage of net revenues; Rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government
spending, maintaining 1996 spending levels as a floor for social spending.
B. Improve efficiency in the education and health sectors:
B1. Education reform will ensure the extension of mandatory education and access to the poor
within current      budget constraints. Priority actions include:
(a) increasing the student/teacher ratio and the ratio of staff actively teaching to total
staff;
(b) reduce the disproportionate use of temporary and substitute education personnel;
(c) improve incentives for quality achievement;
(d) increase participation of the private sector; and
(e) reduce administrative costs.
B2. Health reforms will improve efficiency and equity in the health sector, by:
(a) separating the provision and financing of public health services,
(b) increasing cost recovery,
(c) consolidating hospital facilities,
(d) reducing excessive staff and reallocating resources to non-personnel expenditures,
(e) improving targeting to the poor and
(f) increasing health insurance coverage (within the health budget constraints).
3.2 Revised Objective:
2.    n.a.
3.3 Original Components:
3.    Component; Cost; Rating
FIRST TRANCHE RELEASE; $10,000,000.00; S
SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE; $25,000,000.00;  S
THIRD TRANCHE RELEASE; $15,000,000.00; U
3.4 Revised Components:
4.    n.a.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
5.    Not rated by QAG. ICR rating discussed under Bank Performance, Section 7.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Background
6.    In Argentina, provincial governments have long played an important role in overall fiscal
performance and macroeconomic stability. Argentina's public sector is highly decentralized, with
provinces and municipalities accounting for about half of total public spending. In particular, they
have increasingly become the key public sector level for providing public services, with
responsibility for over 90 percent of public spending in health and basic education. Thus,
provincial reform becomes a central element in the efforts of Argentina to reduce its
macroeconomic vulnerability through improved fiscal performance and to increase
competitiveness and enhance equity through human resource development.
-.2-



7.    During the 1980s, high inflation rates, lack of budgetary discipline, easy access to
borrowing and reliance on the Federal Government for transfers and bailouts all contributed to
persistent fiscal deficits. The situation improved in 1992, due to the reforms that the Federal
Government had initiated under the Convertibility Plan, and a major national tax effort resulting in
windfall revenues for the provinces. The financial crisis of 1995 aggravated the fiscal situation of
the provinces once again when the pool of total public revenues fell dramatically. Provincial
revenues dropped 5 percent in real terms, provincial expenditures failed to adjust, and the
provincial deficit reached a record high of $3.5 billion or 1.4 percent of GDP, about half of the
consolidated public sector. In 1995-96, out of 24 provinces, only four had balanced fiscal
accounts. Most of the others faced important liquidity shortages, increased borrowing, and
accumulated arrears.
8.    Recognizing the importance of provincial finances to macro-stability, provincial reform
has been a priority for the Federal Government since the early 1 990s. During 1992 and 1993, it
negotiated two agreements with the provinces to promote structural reforms. The provinces
agreed to improve own-source mobilization, restructure provincial taxes and eliminate
distortionary taxes, privatize public enterprises, including the provincial banks and utilities,
deregulate the provincial economy, and transfer the provincial pension funds to the national
system. In exchange, the Federal Government guaranteed a shared-revenue floor to each
province, sheltering them from downfalls in revenue. It also provided a Transformation Fund,
which helped finance those reforms and provide technical assistance and advisory services. While
some provinces began implementing a program of reforms during 1993-94, it was not until the
financial crisis of 1995 that a large number of provinces began to reform in earnest.
9.    The Bank has been a major partner of the Government since the early 1990's in supporting
provincial reforms and institutional strengthening. The first generation of IBRD operations
developed during the late 1980s that targeted sub-national governments were the First Provincial
Development Project (Ln. 3280-AR) and Municipal Development Project (Ln. 2920-AR) and
subsequent follow-up operations-- for the provinces (Ln. 3877-AR) and municipalities (Ln.
3860-AR). These loans were multi-sector operations covering all provinces to provide, at a
minimum, support for institutional strengthening and, for those satisfying creditworthiness
criteria, financing for investments linked to sector reforms and improved fiscal performance. In
time, these loans were complemented by a series of sector investment operations aimed at
improving the efficiency of delivering secondary education, public health, provincial roads, water
supply, and agricultural services and infrastructure. In terms of reform, the multi-sector
operations had been successful in strengthening the weak technical capacity of provincial and
municipal governments and introducing the concept of rewarding good fiscal performance.
However, they were not adequate for providing the necessary financial support to those provinces
willing and able to implement major structural reforms. The First Provincial Reform Loan
(PRL-1 Ln. 3826-AR) was designed to fill in this gap.
10.   Targeted at a group of reform-minded provinces, the PRL-I was aimed at deepening the
fiscal reforms underlying macroeconomic stability and enhancing the capacity of the provincial
governments to fulfill their increasingly-important role as providers of public goods and services.
- 3 -



To accomplish these objectives, the operation was designed as a quick-disbursing adjustment loan
with conditionalities both at the federal and at the provincial levels. The loan proceeds were used
to capitalize the Transformation Fund, established by the national government in April 1993 to
promote structural adjustment in the provinces. The national government established individual
agreements with the participating provinces, determining in each case the measures to be taken by
the provincial governments, their needs for technical and financial support, and the terms for
repayment. The national government, in turn, was responsible for maintaining a supportive
incentive framework. The PRL-1 operation in concert with the complementary Provincial Bank
Privatization (Ln. 3878-AR) and the Provincial Pension Reform (Ln. 4116-AR) loans were
highly successful in deepening public sector reform among participating provinces. Some of their
specific accomplishments include the reduction of 55,000 provincial agents, the privatization or
concessioning of 48 provincial enterprises, the privatization of thirteen provincial banks, and the
transfer of eight provincial pension funds to the national social security system.
11.  In 1996, the Federal Government recognized the need for a second phase of provincial
reforms. After undertaking some of the basic structural reforms, including privatization, which
provided a better balance in the role of the state and its fiscal means and a more stable, immediate
fiscal situation, it was clear that the provinces needed to address issues of the quality and equity of
core public services, especially in health and education, which had been decentralized. The
Second Provincial Reform Loan (PRL-2) came as the next step in the progression towards more
direct interaction with selected, reform-minded provinces. Targeted directly to individual
provinces that had demonstrated their willingness and ability to implement reforms, the PRL-2
was conceived as a more agile lending tool tailored to fit the reform programs of individual
provinces, thus avoiding the administrative bureaucracy of programs administered at the central
level and increasing borrower ownership.
12.   The PRL-2's specific objective, as stated in the Report and Recommendation of the
President (Report No. P-7136-AR, July 30, 1997) was to support the provinces in reforming and
restructuring so as to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services, particularly in
health and education, within fiscally sound policies. To accomplish these objectives, the PRL-2
was structured as quick-disbursing adjustment loans to the individual provinces to support fiscal
adjustment combined with structural reforms in the social sectors. The operation was to finance
the adjustment cost of the provincial programs and to provide technical assistance and analytical
support to the provinces. The PRL-2 was fully consistent with the 1997 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), which defined a strategy towards the provinces that focused on reform and
sector investment operations aimed at deepening reforms in selected provinces by improving the
efficiency of social expenditures. While the nature of the problems varied across provinces and
the reform programs are tailor-made to each, the pillars of the reform program were common and
include three basic components: public finance, education, and health.
13.   Reforms in public finance focused on achieving a sustainable fiscal situation based mainly
on strengthening ongoing reforms in the participating provinces, particularly in increasing current
savings to lower the debt burden. Local resource mobilization was emphasized not only to
increase revenues, but to enhance accountability and to attenuate the pro-cyclical impact of
federal transfers. Civil service reform was to be promoted to enhance the productivity of public
- 4 -



and to increase resources available for investment by reducing the wage bill. Increased local
revenues, changes in the structure of expenditures, and lowering debt were required to provide
for greater flexibility in the face of economic downturns, such as the Tequila crisis and more
recently the external shocks from Asia, Russia and Brazil. Technical assistance and financing for
institutional development was to be provided through ongoing Bank operations, in particular the
Second Provincial Development Project. The basic elements of the program included:
*  improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on own-source
revenues and increased accountability;
*  civil service reform including reduction of the wage bill and redundant personnel; improved
training and compensation; control to lower absenteeism and overpayments; and,
* rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government spending, with
emphasis on privatization and outsourcing to improve reliability and quality of public services
and lower the fiscal burden.
14.   On the social sector side, the emphasis was to increase the efficiency and quality of the
education and health sectors, focusing on demand and poverty reduction aspects, while promoting
increased involvement by the private sector. The large majority of provinces devoted sufficient
resources to public health and education, most at levels higher than OECD countries relative to
per capita incomes; however, the efficiency and quality of this spending was poor. The basic
strategy was to protect current levels of spending, while at the same time changing the structure
of expenditures to increase investment and providing incentives for improvements in efficiency,
quality and equity
15.  In education, despite attractive returns to higher education, dropout rates from secondary
school among the poor are high. In Argentina only 24 percent of students in the lowest quintile
complete secondary school, compared to 76 percent for the upper quintile. Proposed education
reforms sought to ensure the extension of obligatory education (from six to nine years) as
mandated the National Education Law, while improving efficiency and quality. Given the low
productivity in most provinces, with student/teacher ratios in some cases double those of
comparators, and high levels of teacher absenteeism (sometimes four times as high as
comparators), much of this was to be financed within the current budget, with some short-term
increases to cover investment in classrooms, materials and teacher training. In addition, most
provinces also needed to undergo important reforms to provide incentives to improve quality,
including changing seniority-based teacher remuneration systems into merit-based systems, and
decentralizing greater control to the school level. Technical assistance and financing for
institutional development was to be provided through the ongoing Bank operations, First and
Second Secondary Education Projects (Lns. 3794 and 3971) as well as through IDB sector
operations. Priority actions included:
*  Increasing low student/teacher ratios and the participation of staff actively teaching as a share
of total staff;
*  Reducing disproportionate use of temporary and substitute education personnel;
- 5 -



* Improving the incentives for quality improvement;
* Increasing the participation of the private sector; and,
* Reducing administrative costs.
16.  In health, despite the availability of health care, generally through public hospitals, care is
of poorer quality for poorer people. For example, 25 percent of women in the lowest income
levels are delivered by non-doctors, while none at the upper level; over 30 percent of women in
the lowest quintile have no post delivery follow-up, compared to only 2 percent of those in the
upper quintile; 74 percent from lowest have to wait more than 24 hours for a consultation, as
compared to only 45 percent of those in the upper quintile. Proposed health reforms sought to
increase overall investment largely within the current budget envelope and to induce
improvements in efficiency, quality and equity by separating the supply of services from the
financing, promoting cost-recovery for care provided by public hospital to insured patients,
promoting hospital accreditation and quality assurance systems, and providing the indigent
population with health insurance. A fundamental element of this strategy, self-administered public
hospitals, was pioneered in Argentina under the ongoing Provincial Health Development Project
(PRESSAL, Ln. 3931-AR). On the financing side, the Bank supported reforms in the national
health insurance system (Health Insurance Reform Loan Ln. 4002/3AR and Health Insurance
Technical Assistance Project Ln 4004-AR) to enhance efficiency and promote competition. The
PRL-2 program combined these two reform elements in participating provinces and promotes the
incorporation of the uninsured poor into the system to help ensure equity in access to services.
The main actions to be undertaken cover reformns in the area of personal health care delivery,
public health finance and public health administration and included:
* Extending the Provincial Health Insurance to the uninsured poor
* Restructuring the Provincial Health Insurance carrier (Obra Social Provincial);
* Reducing staff and reallocating resources to non-personnel expenditures;
* Reallocating resources from personal health care to essential public health services, including
health promotion, reproductive health and injury control; and
* Promoting public hospital autonomy;
17.   According to the eligibility criteria and the focus of the program agreed between the
national government and the Bank, the PRL-2 loans were to be made available to provinces that
had: (i) introduced significant structural reforms in terms of the size of the provincial government
and the privatization of major public enterprises; (ii) accepted the transfer of the provincial
pension funds to the national system; and (iii) demonstrated ability and political comrnitment to
further reforms. On the basis of these criteria, four provinces were selected for piloting this
approach: Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan, and Tucuman. These provinces represented a diverse
pool in terms of their main demographic and socio-economic indicators, economic base, and the
political affiliation of the provincial admninistrations. Together, they account for 6 percent of
Argentina's GDP and 10 percent of the country's population.
18.   The borrower of the four adjustment loans was the Argentine Republic, which in turn was
to onlend funds equivalent to the loan amounts to each province. The amount of each loan was
determined as a function of the population of each province, its adjustrnent needs, and the depth
- 6 -



of each program. Tranche conditionality was also tailored to match the depth and pace of reforms
in each participating province. Disbursements for each loan were conditioned on Board approval
(i.e., loan effectiveness) and subsequent positive evaluations on the compliance of the loan
conditionality agreed with each province. While the formal tranche-release actions were limited
to key measures, the operations supported an ambitious reform program in each of the
participating provinces that were detailed in the Letters of Provincial Reform (LPR) drafted by
each province.
San Juan
19.   The province of San Juan is a relatively poor province in the Northern region of Cuyo in
Argentina. Its per capita income was about $4,200 in 1995, about half Argentina's average, with
32% of families not meeting their basic needs. Although San Juan is well endowed with
agricultural and mining resources and has attracted private investment in the last few years, by the
mid-I 990s the province had yet to begin the process of modernizing the public sector to facilitate
these investments and to ensure that the benefits of increased growth are more broadly shared.
Performance in the social sectors was poor, despite the high share of public resources these
sectors absorb. Weak public administration led a to rapid growth in current expenditures and
serious fiscal imbalances, marked by excessive public employment. In 1995, the provincial deficit
reached 44% of current revenues, the wage bill absorbed 123% of the provincial net current
revenues and the debt stock/revenue ratio was above 101%. Due to lack of resources, capital
expenditures were financed only from earmarked transfers from the central government and
commercial debt guaranteed by revenue sharing.
San Juan Achievement of Objectives
20.   The objective of helping the province of San Juan to reform its public sector so as to
ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services in education and health within
fiscally sound policies was not met. Moreover, modest achievements are unlikely to be
sustainable. Although the province met second tranche targets in the fiscal, education and health
components by mid-1999, subsequently implementation deteriorated, particularly on the fiscal
side, and the new provincial administration began dismantling some of the reforms starting in
December 1999. Discussion with the new administration, during two three-month extensions,
failed to reach agreement on a revised program to meet the third tranche targets within a
reasonable time frame (12 to 18 months). The third tranche was canceled and the loan was closed
on June 30, 2000.
21.   While the current fiscal situation represents an improvement from the situation in 1996,
there is little willingness by the province to take the required measures to put it back on a
sustainable path and the negligible institutional development appears insufficient to support such
an improvement. Indeed, the new administration, which took office in December 1999, inherited
a rather chaotic situation largely because the previous administration had not taken timely
measures, particularly on the fiscal side, during the long transition after its defeat in the May 1999
gubernatorial elections. There were some achievements in education and health, but they are far
from beginning the important transformation envisaged at the time of appraisal and their
- 7 -



sustainability is uncertain. These incipient efforts, which had yet begun to generate important
benefits, were largely dismantled by a new provincial administration that did not share the basic
assumptions underlying the reforms. While the economic downturn in Argentina had a negative
affect on program implementation during 1999, it was within ability of the then provincial
government to adjust to the less favorable environment. A detailed assessment of the three main
components, fiscal and public finance, education, and health, are detailed below:
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Fiscal and Public Finance
22.      In 1996, the Provincial Government took the first steps aimed at restoring fiscal
balance and reducing the size of government. These measures included: reducing the wage bill
by 30%, transferring the Provincial Pension Fund to the National government, and privatizing the
provincial bank, the electricity utility and the water utility. As a result, the fiscal situation
improved: relative to current revenues, the current deficit fell from 53% in 1995, to 4% in 1996;
the wage bill declined from 123% to 76%; and the debt stock was brought down to 84% from a
peak of 101%.
23.      Under the program, the provincial government sought to reach and maintain a current
surplus, reduce the wage bill to 60% of current revenues, and to reduce debt stocks to less than
60% of current revenues, while keeping investment at an adequate level. The province was able
to attain intermediate targets to meet these objectives during the first two years of the program.
However, the seeds of future fiscal problems were planted in 1998 when the province adjusted
teacher salaries back toward their 1995 levels. Subsequently, with a downturn in revenues, the
need for corrective fiscal measures during the second semester of 1999 coincided with the
electoral defeat of the Governor a long transition between administrations (May to December).
Far from an adjustment, the outgoing government accelerated spending. The current deficit
reached about $32 million by the end of the year, as compared to a surplus of $24 million in 1998.
On the debt side, the stock had been reduced from $424 million at end December 1996 to around
$400 by mid-June, or about 68% of current revenues. By the end of the year, the need to finance
the current deficit increased the debt stock again, but more importantly, the outgoing government
took on over $200 million more in debt to finance the construction of hydroelectric works to be
constructed over a five-year period. Thus, at the end of the year the stock had reached $643
million, or about 110% of current revenues. The new administration, citing its desire to protect
public employment and wages in the face of the economic downturn and increased
unemployment, has yet to implement the needed fiscal adjustment and continue financing the
resulting current deficit. Its program for the year 2000, based on overly optimistic revenue
assumptions, projected a current surplus of $29 million (as opposed to the program target of $55
million), personnel spending equivalent to 74% of current revenues (with a program target of
60%), and debt stock to current revenues of 101% (compared to a target of 60%). More recent
projections indicate that the revenue expectations were not realized and the actual performance
during the year 2000 is likely to be substantially worse that what the government proposed. The
performance of the province under the program as regards specific sector objectives is detailed
below:
-8 -



(i). Increase tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on
own-source revenues. The effort to improve tax administration and collection was effectively
pursued during most of the 1997-99 period. Building on technical assistance and equipment
financed under the First and Second Provincial Development Projects, the Bank sought to
promote improved tax collection, with programs to identify and monitor the largest taxpayers in
association with the federal government, which contributed to the early gains in collections, and a
project to improve property collections by updating and modernizing the cadaster. The province
also enacted a realignment of tax rates for property, turnover, stamp and automobile taxes. It,
however, was slow in implementing an integrated reform and modernization of the local tax office
to enhance the efficiency of collection and integrate the cadaster work to reduce evasion. Despite
a downturn in late 1999, overall own-source revenues increased by 14% over the 1996-99 period
(26% by 1998). Still, even at the highest level, the province only generates about 15% of its
revenues from own-sources. The overall program target was about 20% higher than the level
reached by 1998.
(ii). Civil service reform and reduction of personnel expenditure as a share of
current spending. Reform efforts included controls aimed at lowering absenteeism and
overpayments and progressive decentralization and concession of public works and services, with
the possible privatization of central government departments. Under the program, the province
reduced public sector employment by almost 5% between 1997 and mid-1999, and was within
reach of the third tranche target of 6%. This downsizing was associated with an effort to readjust
salary levels from the emergency cuts implemented in 1995-96. As a result, the wage bill actually
grew under the program by more than 20% between 1996 and 1998, but in conjunction with
increased revenues the province was able to almost met the third tranche target of personnel
expenditures equivalent to 60% of total spending. However, continued increases in personnel
spending during 1999 put the province at risk in not meeting the target. The new administration
was unwilling to implement further adjustment measures, including further downsizing of about
600 public employees required for the third tranche, and the projected share for personnel
spending was above 70% for the year 2000.
(iii) Rationalizing and prioritizing spending, including maintaining levels of
spending in health and education. The three year expenditure plan for the province highlighted
its priorities of in the social sectors. Second tranche conditions were met as regards ensuring the
maintenance of floor levels of budgeting in health and education. In September 1999, the
province decided to go ahead with a major investment in hydroelectric works costing more than
$200 million over a construction period of about five years. While the investment benefited from
economic analysis, further measures need to be undertaken to ensure fiscal space.
B.1 Education
24.      Studies undertaken at during preparation found that education in San Juan was
characterized by high costs and poor outcomes. Student achievement were among the lowest in
the country in many areas, despite the significant shares of its budget devoted to education, with
public sector spending/per capita income at almost double the level of OECD countries. The
province was also facing equity issues, with a widening gap between secondary school net
enrollment rates between the children of the highest and lowest 20% in terms of household
-9-



incomes. The problems plaguing San Juan were typical of many other provinces. Personnel
expenditures dominated the education budget, leaving little room to finance non-personnel inputs
and investment. The average costs per student was high due to low student/teacher ratios the and
disproportionate use of temporary and substitute teachers. Teachers often abused the leave
system and their pay is unrelated to teaching quality or effective classroom hours. These
problems were exacerbated because of expectations for an increase in educational demand due to
the extension in compulsory education from six to nine years, as mandated by the Federal
Education Law.
25.      During 1996, the province undertook a deep adjustmnent in educational spending and
took several decisions to face this situation. From 1995 to 1996, the budget allocated to
education was cut by 29%, mainly by reducing teacher salaries. Under the program, San Juan
sought to face the challenge of extending compulsory education and improving efficiency, quality
and equity, within the context of important fiscal constraints and the desire to readjust teacher
wages upward following the drastic cuts in 1995. Savings to finance this effort were to come
from improved human resource administration, increasing student/teacher ratios, and reducing the
unwarranted use of substitute teachers. Other measures included enhancing quality and equity
through incentives, piloting of school decentralization, improving the allocation of subsidies to
privately managed schools, and enhancing the efficiency and quality of teacher training.
26.      Initially there was rapid progress in implementing the required reforms and most
second tranche conditions were met early in the process and personnel spending was reduced
from 94% to 88% of the sector budget and the province was able to increase the coverage of the
new curriculum, with much of the increase focused on poorer communities. However, the
recuperation of teacher wages exceeded the level of savings and a downturn in overall revenues.
A new adjustment in 1999 was not undertaken in the midst of an electoral campaign and a
prolonged transition between administrations. While there were some initial achievements,
including better control over absenteeism and the closing of redundant teacher institutes, their
sustainability is questionable. The more comprehensive reform effort envisaged at appraisal has
not occurred. For example, the effort to align teacher remuneration with merit remains as a
challenge. Discussions with new authorities indicated a commitment to continue a number of
sector reforms, but they too have been reluctant to make the necessary adjustment to the wage
bill. Details on specific objectives are detailed below:
(i) Increase the student/teacher ratio and the ratio of teaching staff to total staff. The
improvement of human resource administration was expected to generate important savings, by
reducing central administration, and implementing new technical requirements. By 1998, the
province was able to achieve a student/teacher ratio of 17: 1, with a third tranche target of 19: 1.
It was also able to reduce the share of personnel spending for education to 88%, bettering the
initial target of 96%.
(ii) Reduce the disproportionate use of temporary and substitute teachers. The main
instrument to achieve this objective was through the creation of a new leave system, including
tighter controls over sick leave. The new leave system was initiated in 1997, and resulted in a
15% decline in the use of substitute teachers, followed by an additional 10% drop in 1998. Based
- 10-



on this success, the program was extended throughout the public sector, with a private
concession. However, more recently sick leave and the use of substitutes has been on the rise, in
part because the existing private contract lacks adequate performance targets.
(iii) Improve incentives for quality achievement. This was to be promoted through a
change in the remuneration system for teachers to include performance and a pilot program to
decentralize school management, including the creation of a fund to provide incentives for quality
improvements. Unfortunately, the new system of wage scales was not implemented in
conjunction with an increase in sector salary and an important opportunity was lost. Under the
decentralization pilot, for equity consideration, the initial targets were to be schools in poorer
areas or where the levels of repetition or drop out are especially high. While the decentralization
pilot was initiated, the fund of $2 million, was not created until 1999. Moreover, an additional
effort to promote regionalization only added an additional bureaucratic layer, as the most
important management decisions remain centralized.
(iv) To promote the development of the private sector. Privately managed schools
represented about 12% of the education budget (and about 14% of enrollment) at an average cost
of $700 per student. However, subsidies to these schools were allocated based on agreements
that provided little incentive for efficiency, quality and equity. Under the program, the province
developed a system of allocating the subsidies according to a formula that included the cost per
student as well as regional factors and social indicators. With the new administration, the
technical and political basis of the program is under question and implementation appears unlikely.
(v) Teacher Training. Under the program, the province sought to increase the efficiency
and quality of its public institutes for teacher training in support of the new curriculum. By 1996,
the number of institutes had been reduced from 13 to 8 and enrollment was frozen to reduce
excess supply (local demand for teachers had been equivalent to 10% of annual graduates). The
target was to consolidate and reduce the number of institutes to six by the end of the program.
An additional institute was closed by 1998, reducing a further 50 faculty positions, and two of the
institutes were designated exclusively for training teachers in the new curriculum.
B.2 Health
27.  Preparation studies indicated that substantial resources in San Juan were devoted to health
by the public sector, about 7% of GDP, but the quality of services provided to the poor without
health insurance suffered as a consequence of poor management in the sector and the inefficient
use of available resources. The health system was predominantly hospital-based, with hospitals
being managed primarily by the provincial government. Public hospitals were inefficient, with low
occupancy rates averaging only 57 percent (compared to a norm of 80%), low personnel
productivity and low quality of care. Personnel costs absorbed most of the health budget, leaving
little room for essential complementary inputs and investment. As a result, many hospitals were
obsolete and lacked basic.maintenance, both in terms of equipment and physical facilities. As
decision-making was highly centralized at the level of the Provincial Ministry of Health, hospitals
had limited authority and incentives to achieve improvements in efficiency.
28.   To promote a more efficient production of health services the program sought to support
the transformation of public hospitals into decentralized hospitals, defined by the local
- 11 -



administration of human resources and financing associated with the volume and quality of
services offered. Essentially public hospitals were to be financed by the sale of services to private
and public insurance providers rather than by direct budget lines from the Ministry of Health, by
charging those clients with health insurance (20-40% of services were believed to be garnered by
this group) and provided the poor without coverage with health insurance. All of this was to
contribute to improving the quality of the services, and make the subsidy extended to those
services or activities considered public goods more transparent.
29.   The provincial government began the first steps towards this transformation in 1995-96
through staff reductions and intervening the obra social for public employees to put it on a
sustainable financial basis, and proceeded under the program to set up the required legal
framework and to begin implementing the new systems. In early 1999, it decided to accelerated
the reforms by jump starting hospital decentralization and implementing a fledgling system of
health insurance for the poor. These efforts were not continued by the new administration, and in
some cases were reversed. An assessment of the individual components of the program is as
follows:
(i) Separating the provision from the financing of public health services. This was the
fundamental transformation expected under the program. Even under the most favorable
environments, this objective appears to have been overly ambitious for a two-year program.
Nevertheless, in early 1999, with the legislation for decentralization in place, the province decided
to accelerate its strategy and begin the process of hospital decentralization with the two largest
public hospitals in the capital city (it had earlier planned to start with smaller hospitals in a more
incremental approach). To accelerate these changes, in early 1999 the Ministry channeled cost
recovery from the provincial obra social to public hospitals based upon services actually rendered.
The hospital decentralization effort was slowed by the new administration, which attributed a
deterioration in health care to the reforms.
(ii) Increasing cost recovery. Incipient systems for cost recovery were set up in connection
with decentralized contracts with the two hospitals, which stipulated that they increase such
recovery by 30% in 1999, and that they contract staff on a merit pay system. The new
administration has proposed a mixed system for budget allocation and a continued role for cost
recovery.
(iii) Consolidating hospital facilities. No specific activities were apparently included in the
program to achieve this objective, beyond that which might have been realized under a system
effectively separating financing from services. With the move to decentralize the two largest
hospitals, the province indicated its desire to restructure its services through a network approach
including public and private facilities that would have helped to facilitate such consolidation, and
allowed beneficiaries of the new health insurance system to seek services at both public and
private facilities. The new administration put forth a program along similar lines, focusing on the
importance of primary care.
(iv) Reducing excess staff and reallocating resources to investment. Under the program,
through reductions in staff and outsourcing, the province was to lower the share of the wage bill
to 72%, reducing stafflevels to 3,800 employees. By the time ofthe second tranche (mid-1999),
- 12-



the province had reduced employment to 4,145, down from 4,490 in 1995, and the share of
personnel spending from 86% to 80%. The new administration cited the lack of sufficient
personnel as a cause of a deterioration in health indicators and indicated its desire to increase
employment again. Fiscal considerations limited the implementation of this strategy.
(v) Improve targeting to the poor. Better targeting and equity was essentially to be
achieved by improved public health service (see iii) and the health insurance scheme for the poor
(see vi).
(vi) Increasing health insurance coverage within the current health budget constraint.
The intervention of the obra social (an autonomous organization) was fundamental for supporting
the transformation of the sector by ensuring the financial viability of a major user of the public
hospitals and for administering the health insurance program for the poor. Although it was
initially envisaged that putting the obra social on firmer financial footing would require recourse
to private management contracts, the intervention itself was successful. Through 1999, the obra
was running a surplus by regularizing payments and contributions and renegotiating supplier
contracts. This achievement supported the decision to begin implementing health insurance for
the poor through an executive decree, although the third tranche required merely presenting draft
legislation. With a roster developed under an opportunistic approach, over the course of a month
about 25,000 people signed up (about 10-15% of potential beneficiaries). The new administration
has proposed a different approach to screen beneficiaries on a needs basis.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
30.   n.a.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
31.   n.a.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
32.   The impact on institutional development appears to be negligible in terms of public
finances, between the achievements that were dismantled by the new administration and the
slowness of the previous administration in implementing such important initiatives such as
modernization of tax administration and financial management. Several initiatives that appear
sustainable include the greater control of absenteeism and abuse of the leave system, if corrective
measures are undertaken, and the reforms instituted at the provincial obra social. Health sector
reform has been reversed in some cases, but it is clear that the traditional public hospital based
system is no longer seen as viable, and proposals by the new ministry may provide a more gradual
approach to achieving many of the development objectives.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
33.   Macroeconomic performance: It would be difficult to imagine a more favorable
economic environment to support implementation during the initial years of the program.
Economic growth was on the upswing, with real GDP growth of 5.5 percent in 1996, 8.1 percent
in 1997, and 6.6 percent in the first half of 1998. However, as a result of the combined effects of
- 13 -



the downturn in East Asia, the devaluation of the Russian ruble and the Brazilian real, and
deterioration of commodity prices, the economy began to decelerate falling to -0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter of 1998, and 3.9 percent for the year as a whole. For 1999, GDP is estimated to
have declined by 3.1 percent in 1999, a larger drop in output than experienced during the Tequila
crisis of 1995. Unemployment, after falling to about 12 percent from the high of 18 percent
reached in 1996, increased to 14 percent in late 1999. At the end of 1999, the economy began to
gradually recover from the recession; however, the recovery has been slow. In the first quarter of
2000, GDP grew by a mere 0.9 percent (year-on-year). Industrial production grew by 2.7 percent
and 1.7 percent (year-on-year) in the first and second quarters of the year; however, this is due to
a bump up at the end of 1999, and further growth has stagnated since then. Unemployment rose
somewhat from 13.7 percent in October 1999 to 15.4 percent in May, 2000. In general, access to
international financial markets was limited, with a high degree of volatility in spreads. Fiscal
performance deteriorated during 1999 and the fiscal program went off track in the latter part,
ending the year with a deficit of about $7.4 billion, considerably higher than the target of $5
billion agreed with the IMF. The higher deficit was the result of higher interest costs, the duration
of the recession, and a general weakening of fiscal discipline during the election year. Provincial
governments encountered similar conditions and they ended the year with a deficit of about $4.5
billion, almost twice the deficit in 1998. In total the consolidated public sector fiscal deficit
amounted to about 4.2 percent of GDP, excluding privatization receipts. As a result, the new
administration took swift action in December 1999 to restore order in the fiscal accounts,
including those of the provinces.
34.   As regards San Juan, a 4% decline in total revenues in 1999, equivalent to about $28
million can be directly linked to the affects of the nationwide economic downturn. Although
capital expenditures were adjusted downward, current spending accelerated, and the required
adjustment was not undertaken by the provincial government. The new administration referred to
the general economic downturn in justifying continued deficit spending.
35.   National and Provincial Elections. The electoral campaign in 1999 at both the national
and provincial level, and the subsequent change in both administrations later that year had an
important affects on the program. The most obvious affect was during the campaign when the
Governor hesitated to make needed adjustments in public sector wages. At the same time,
however, the Governor choose accelerate health sector reforms during the height of the
campaign. Subsequently, the defeat of the Governor and a long transition period between May
and December had a major negative affect on the program, when the outgoing Governor did not
take the required fiscal measures. The program suffered further with the new administration,
which had essentially campaign on an anti-adjustment program. Not only did the new
administration not take needed fiscal measures, it also began to dismantle earlier reforms in other
areas that were identified with the previous Governor, most importantly the health sector reforms.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
36.   Along with specific sector-level reforms promoted by the federal government, the
provincial efforts benefited from a consistent system of fiscal incentives at the national level that
combined a hard budget constraint and federal resistance to providing bailouts, with proactive
programs to support state reform. In Argentina, a set of critical actions was implemented during
- 14 -



the 1992-1996 period, including the signing of the Fiscal Pacts, the elimination of quasi-deficit
financing through Central Bank rediscounts and provincial banks, and support for transferring
provincial pension funds to the national government, and privatizing provincial banks and public
enterprises, and institutional strengthening for financial and tax administration.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
37.   While this framework was firmly in place during the implementation of the program in San
Juan, it is likely that the new provincial administration in December 1999 expected that the new
Federal Government would be supportive of its decision to continue running deficits, and might
even offer financial support. However, in fact, although the new Federal administration did
provide a program to support provinces to service their short-term debt, other measures taken
actually hardened the budget constraint by requiring federal authorization for external borrowing
and linking more explicitly for two years the level of co-participation transfers to overall growth
of the economy. Further, San Juan was not willing at that time to agree to the fiscal measures
required to enter into the debt-relief program.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
38.    n.a.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
39.   With no major objectives achieved during the life of the loan, and little prospects for
achieving them in the near term, sustainability is rated as unlikely.
40.   Although there are some more recent indications that the province would like to return to
the reform path, it is much too early to know if these efforts will be successful.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
41.   Despite the closing of the loan and a difficult implementation environment, a framework at
the federal level for supporting the reforms of a committed provincial government remain in place,
as does support for ongoing attempt to improve financial management and tax administration
through the Second Provincial Development Project. The new administration now appears
willing, as of late 2000, to enter into the Federal debt relief program and to discuss enacting new
fiscal measures, including a Law of Fiscal Discipline, and meeting fiscal targets to achieve
equilibrium over the next few years.
42.   In education, discussions with the authorities indicated a willingness to continue with the
reform efforts and they requested a follow-up operation for the sector (they do not participate in
the ongoing First Secondary education Project). In health, after initially rejecting the reform
program outright, authorities were engaged in discussions to try to make their proposed program
compatible with third tranche targets. Significant headway was made during the six month loan
extension, but the Minister subsequently resigned. The new Minister is even more sympathetic to
the reforms and has initiated efforts to meet third tranche conditions (despite the closing of the
loan), as regards hospitsal cost recovery and staff reductions.
- 15 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
43.   Identification was on target and innovative. First, through important upfront nationwide
analysis, the Bank identified the need to promote reforms in the social sectors, education and
health, in a framework of fiscal soundness centering on the provincial government. These two
sectors are central to the medium and long-term success of any provincial reform strategy, as they
represent between 40 and 45 percent of the provincial budgets. Moreover, the services in these
two sectors are key in determining the level of human capital development of the province in the
medium and long term. Secondly, the program design to deal with individual provinces with
integrated fiscal programs and second generation reforms was an important next step, following
successful Bank operations to promote first generation reforms among groups of provinces. As
regards preparation, San Juan benefited from a Bank expenditure review of health and education.
Nevertheless, a social assessment and impact analysis, including beneficiary participation could
have helped to identify local support for proposed reforms and anticipated needed mitagory
measure, giving more confidence to both the outgoing and incoming governors as regards the
benefits of the proposed reforms.
44.   The need to improvement transparency was identified by the team, however, the proposed
activity to require the auditing of the fiscal accounts did not provide the citizens of San Juan with
the timely information. A more transparent system, together with the parameters of a Law of
Fiscal Discipline, might have helped to avert the fiscal mismanagement during the last seven
months of the outgoing administration. (Both these features are now basic measures on the
Federal program). In addition, the matrix of conditionalities would have benefited from a explicit
link between the program to readjust wages, needed savings, and the implementation of a new
wage scale and performance incentives.
7.2 Supervision:
45.   San Juan benefited from field-based supervision, including the TM, a Social Sector Leader
who was a health specialist, and local staff in fiscal/public sector management and education, who
provided day-to-day contact between HQ-based missions. Project implementation was also
supported through supervision and financing of activities by the Second Provincial Development
Project (financial administration, tax cadaster modernization, reform of tax administration, health
sector reforms), and the Provincial Health Development Project (hospital decentralization,
payment system and reform of the obra social). The IDB financed PRISE project provide
support in education for improvements in human resource administration and quality incentives.
46.   The most difficult issue faced immediately by the supervision team was the lack of
cooperation from the Minister of Finance, who saw the program as an attempt to reduce her
personal control over fiscal matters. As such she delayed needed technical assistance in financial
management and tax administration. Prior to effectiveness, the Bank indicated that progress in
these areas was vital to ensure institutional development and that, while they were not explicitly in
the matrix. The Bank monitored these efforts to ensure that progress was made prior to the
- 16-



second tranche. For the second tranche, the Bank also provided intensive support for
accelerating health sector reforms and in supporting the education ministry on the issue of
subsidies to private schools.
47.   During the long transition period, the Bank was pro-active in making contact with the
newly designated authorities. These discussions were largely positive and the province indicated a
desire to remain in the program. The Bank indicated that closing the current deficit should be a
priority and that a strong program in this area would facilitate further discussions to resolve the
issues of the debt targets that were largely out of reach because of the debt taken on for the
hydroelectric works. With the change in government in December, particular attention was paid
to health sector issues, and over the course of several missions and intensive dialogue a new
matrix was developed. Loan closing, scheduled for December 31, 1999 was extended with two
three-month extension in an attempt to reformulate a mutually agreeable program for public
finances, education and health. In the end, however, the new administration was not able to agree
to a new fiscal program to meet the fiscal targets within a reasonable time period. and the loan
was closed on June 30, 2000 and the third tranche of $15 million equivalent was canceled. Its
proposed program for the year 2000, based on overly optimistic revenue assumptions, projected a
current surplus of $29 million (as opposed to the program target of $55 million), personnel
spending equivalent to 74% of current revenues (with a program target of 60%), and debt stock
to current revenues of 101% (compared to a target of 60%).
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
48.   Better preparation and appraisal might have reduced the risk of failure. Most critically,
Bank concerns about the fiscal situation of the province going into the program should have been
reinforced by requiring legislation regarding fiscal discipline and transparency. Not only might
this have helped to avoid the deterioration in fiscal performance during the transition period
between administrations, it also might have raised the level of understanding among politicians
and the general populace over the need to maintain fiscal discipline.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
49.   Both the provincial and federal governments were fully involved in the preparation process
through the work on public sector reviews in the social sectors. The federal ministries of
Economy, Health, Education, and Interior all fielded teams to support the province.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
50.   At the federal level, implementation benefited from a consistent system of fiscal incentives
that combined a hard budget constraint and federal resistance to providing bailouts, with proactive
programs to support state reform. In Argentina, a set of critical actions was implemented during
the 1992-1996 period, including the signing of the Fiscal Pacts, the elimination of quasi-deficit
financing through Central Bank rediscounts and provincial banks, and support for transferring
provincial pension funds to the national government, and privatizing provincial banks and public
enterprises, and institutional strengthening for financial and tax administration. This framework
remained in place throughout the implementation of the program. At the federal level, the
- 17 -



coordinating unit for the PRL2 program provided important support in monitoring fiscal
performance. Provincial reforms in health and education benefited from and complemented
national initiatives. In education, the PRL-2 complemented the IDB-financed PRISE, which
provided technical support to the province to improve the management of the education sector.
In health, the PRL-2 promoted hospital decentralization, a key objective of the PRESSAL, which
provided technical assistance to the province in hospital management initiating a program of
health insurance for the poor, restructuring of the health ministry and in strengthening the
provincial obra social.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
51.   At the provincial level, during the life of the program, the Minister of Finance was largely
uncooperative, particularly in supporting modernization of financial management and tax
administration that might limit her traditional and personal style of management. She also pushed
forward a general increase in teachers salaries despite the need to first implement a better incetive
system. Both health and education sector authorities were very cooperative and energetic in
implementing, particularly in the period leading up to the first and second tranche releases. As
noted above, the implementation performance of the provincial government was clearly
unsatisfactory on the fiscal side during the last seven months of the administration. Attempts to
engage the outgoing administration and to update needed information was unsuccessful. The
Governor, in particular, blamed the Bank and the policies it "forced" him to implement as the
reason for his defeat for a third term. With the new administration, implementation continued to
be difficult on the fiscal side, despite early indications from the new authorities regarding their
desire to maintain the program. On the other hand, health authorities after initially rejecting the
reforms out of hand, engaged the Bank in intense discussions in an attempt to identify differences
in policy orientation and to construct a new set of targets that attempted to conform to the matrix.
Education authorities were also very cooperative. The program coordinating unit was effective in
providing progress reports, however, the head of the unit enjoyed only limited influence at the
cabinet level, particularly with the Minster of Finance.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
52. While the performance of the federal government was satisfactory, that of the provincial government in
implementing the reforms was unsatisfactory. Given the importance of the latter the overall rating of the
borrower would be unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
53.   As one of four provinces participating in a pilot program for supporting reforms, the
lessons learned draws upon the experiences of the provinces as a group, while highlighting those
of Rio Negro. Drawing on the ongoing ICR effort, including the intensive learning ICRs carried
out for Salta (Report No: 20698) and Tucuman (Report No: 20699), which included local
workshops and institutional assessments, important lessons from this experience include:
54.   A national framework for fiscal reform is criticaL  Along with specific sector-level
reforms promoted by the federal government, the provincial efforts benefited from a consistent
system of fiscal incentives at the national level that combined a hard budget constraint and federal
- 18 -



resistance to providing bailouts, with proactive programs to support state reform. In Argentina, a
set of critical actions was implemented during the 1992-1996 period, including the signing of the
Fiscal Pacts, the elimination of quasi-deficit financing through Central Bank rediscounts and
provincial banks, and support for transferring provincial pension funds to the national
government, and privatizing provincial banks and public enterprises, and institutional
strengthening for financial and tax administration. While these constraints were firmly in place
during the implementation of the program in San Juan, the prospects of a change in the national
administration raised expectations that there might be a general relaxing of these fiscal constraint
in general, or at the least a more favorable treatment of the province in particular. This is likely to
have had a negative affect on implementation of the needed fiscal measures when the new
provincial administration took office in December 1999. Although the new Federal administration
did provide a program to support provinces to service their short-term debt, other measures taken
actually hardened the budget constraint by requiring federal authorization for external borrowing
and linking more explicitly for two years the level of co-participation transfers to overall growth
of the economy.
55.   Sequencing is important, and the PRL-2 approach is more successful and sustainable
for provinces that have already achieved a level of control in their fiscal and debt situations.
There can be important tensions between fiscal and sector reform objectives that are exacerbated
when fiscal adjustments are not taken upfront and need to be undertaken in the middle of the
reform process. Although the programs provided for protecting overall spending in health and
education, politically, sector reforms often become associated with fiscal adjustment resulting in
unwarranted resistance. Moreover, urgent needs to downsize staffing may result in losing better
qualified staff before adequate human resource management systems for the social sectors can be
put into place to provide incentives for better performance. Finally, under fiscal duress,
cost-cutting or income generating activities receive priority over other reforms. For example, in
health cost recovery was actively pursued, whereas the creation of health insurance for the poor
was delayed. Fears of losing control over spending also undermined the efforts to promote school
decentralization.
56.   Length of Engagement and Political Cycles: The loans were designed to fully disburse
within 12-18 months of effectiveness; however, the social sector reforms in particular took longer
than anticipated to put into place and even longer to begin showing results. Conditionality went
beyond merely the enacting of legislation and decrees, and required that new systems be
effectively up and running. Depending upon the institutional capacity and commitment of a
province, the time frame for implementation could easily be double the length originally
contemplated. Given the negative impact of elections and changes in provincial administration,
the preferred approach would be to have programs that cover the entire four-year period of a
provincial administration. With such a time frame, given that the programs combined policy
actions with longer institutional development activities a more flexible instrument, other than a
traditional adjustment operation, might be more appropriate.
57.   Projectpreparation should be informed by social and institutional assessments. Social
impact analysis and assessments can provide provincial leadership with greater confidence in the
measures to be undertaken and provide a tool for program design and garnering public support
- 19-



for the reforms, and would have been particularly useful for San Juan in trying to sustain reform
efforts across two administrations. The reforms also introduced institutional arrangements that
affect incentives governing policymaking and service delivery. Institutional assessments in
support of expenditure reviews undertaken jointly with the province could help to identify
complementary accountability and transparency mechanisms to support improved implementation
and greater sustainability. In the more successful instances they combined mechanisms of voice,
competition and hierarchy into service delivery reforms. In other cases, however, there were no
clear signals within the public administration to ensure allegiance to these reforms. Perhaps the
most clear example is on the fiscal side, where both Salta and Tucuman passed legislation binding
the province to parameters of fiscal behavior. In the latter, despite a change in administration, the
objective of fiscal discipline remains as a standard for performance. Such was not the case of San
Juan.
58.   Participatory approaches can facilitate implementation and support sustainability. The
legitimacy of the reforms were enhanced in those cases were a participatory process was followed
involving stakeholders such as teachers, medical staff, and parents and where an effort was made
to inform the general public on the nature of the reforms. This was the case, for example, with
the implementation of the new subsidy formula to private schools in Salta. The participatory
approach facilitated the resolution of the constraints that appeared during its implementation and
provided options to resolve the potential conflicts. Also, this approach guaranteed the legitimacy
of the new formula. Tucuman demonstrates that participatory approaches in the health sector
supported sustainability even with a change in local administration. In contrast, in the case of San
Juan, the acceleration in measures for health reform prior to the second tranche was essentially
through a top down approach, which might have been successful if the governor had been
reelected and the effort sustained until the benefits became apparent and accepted. However, the
reforms became identified with the outgoing governor and had little support within the
bureaucracy to sustain them, so when the administration was changed the reforms were easily
reversed. On the other hand, such approaches are not a panacea. For example, in Rio Negro the
outsourcing effort were largely unsuccessful, in part because the government failed to give
priority to the fiscal situation and the urgent need to bring these negotiations to a conclusion. In
general, the was clearly a better performance among the provinces where reform measures were
openly debated and implemented.
59.   The Experience of the PRL2 Pilot. Emerging lessons from the ongoing experience
suggests that the loan design for a direct relation between the Bank and the participating province
is important in enabling the Bank to bring to bear its international experience and in facilitating
relations between federal and provincial stakeholders. Project design also puts local governors at
the forefront of implementation and dialogue has helped to improve performance under other
investment operations in which the provinces participate. In addition, the provincial approach to
promoting needed sector reforms in health and education appears to be a fundamental
complement to the Bank's efforts in these areas at the national level.
60.   In the case of Argentina, the link between fiscal balance and macroeconomic stability is a
particularly important one due to the strict restrictions on currency emission established by the
Convertibility Law. By putting pressure on the balance of payment, persistent fiscal deficits at the
- 20 -



provincial level can be a source of strain on the money supply and the financial system, thus
reducing the credibility of the government's long-run ability to maintain the Convertibility Plan.
Clearly, as a pilot involving only four provinces representing 10 percent of Argentina's population,
PRL- 2 in and of itself was not expected to have a major direct impact on the country's fiscal
situation, but it did demonstrate that the provinces can make an important contribution to the
further consolidation of Argentina's macroeconomic stability. Despite the delays experienced in
Rio Negro, at the late reversal in San Juan, in the four participating provinces large deficits in
current spending, which totaled -$310 million on average annually during the 1995-96 period
were reduced to only -$17 million for the 1998-99 period. This perfornance compares well to
the overall consolidated accounts of the provinces, where the current balance declined for $75
million in 1995-96 to -$690 million in 1998-99. The PRL-2-provinces as a group, as compared
to non-PRL-2 provinces during the 1996-99 period improved their own-source revenues by 18
percent between 1996 and 1999, compared to 9 percent for non-PRL-2 provinces. Similarly,
PRL-2 provinces showed an average increase in personnel expenditures of only 8 percent between
1996 and 1999, compared to 17 percent for the remaining provinces. Finally, the performance
of PRL-2 provinces was also superior with respect to the provincial debt, with PRL-2 provinces
increasing their stock of provincial debt by an average of only 3.6 percent during the 1996 to
mid-99 period, compared to 30 percent for the remaining provinces. Since completion of the
PRL2 loans in 1999, the performance of these provinces continues to compare favorably with that
of other provinces. For 2000, as a group, own-source revenues increased by 2.3% in PRL2
provinces, compared to a decline of almost 1% in other provinces; and, as a group PRL2
provinces were able to freeze personnel expenditures in 2000 relative to 1999, while other
provinces increased spending in this area by almost 4%.
61.   Assessing the impact on social service delivery of the PRL2 provinces with those not
participating is far more difficult at this point, due to the longer gestation period needed to realize
benefits and to the lack of readily available comparative data. However, preliminary results are
encouraging in Salta and Tucuman, which completed the reform program. Indicators suggest
improvements in both health service efficiency and quality in the self-administered hospitals. In
education and the implementation of the federal reform, Salta in particular has been able to
increase enrollments in secondary schools, reduce costs per student and realize improvements in
student achievement over the 1992-1999 period.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments regarding the Provincial Reform Program in general were received form the Undersecretary for
Provincial Relations of the Federal Ministry Of Economy on behalf of the Borrower. In summarizing the
overall experience of the PRLII, they note:
Although it proved impossible to complete the third tranches of the operations for San Juan and Rio Negro,
the design of the PRI program, as direct operations with the provinces with untied funding and not
requiring the creation of large bureaucracies to disburse, along with advantages financing terms, are
extremely attractive for the provinces in Argentina.
To the extent that the provinces are able to comply adequately with the conditions established by the Loan
Agreement, the PRL constitutes an appropriate instrument to introduce and implement reforms of a fiscal
- 21 -



nature, as well as in reforning public health and education. As untied financing they were able to both help
finance the needed social sector reforms, as well as help in restructuring burdensome provincial debt. The
creation of a Coordinating Unit at the National level concemed with monitoring compliance with
agreements and in ensuring the transfer of disbursements to the provinces facilitated implementation and
did not require an expensive bureaucracy.
As regards difficulties encountered during implementation, some might have been easier to resolve with
better coordination between the Bank, the Coordinating Unit and the participating Provinces. While
coordination was generally satisfactory, it could have been improved in the sequencing of negotiations
regarding fiscal targets. Each party should have a better idea of their roles upfront, as well as in respect to
the presentation and content of the provincial reports so that they might be timely and with adequate
information.
In addition, other problems might have been avoided if the provinces during negotiations had a better
appreciation of the importance that the Bank attaches to fuall compliance with the conditionalities, as well as
in the importance of the Letter of Provincial Reform and the program of expenditures, which the Bank use
as an exhaustive monitoring tool during supervision. Another area that the provinces need to pay attention
to is in ensuring uniform reporting across all sectors, fiscal, health and education to facilitate meeting
condtionalities. In sum, it is important that the provinces keep their promises and show a willingness to
fully implement the actions to which they agree.
The new provincial administration did not provide comments.
(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.
10. Additional Information
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM
Translation
June 30, 1997
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn
1.    This letter describes the main objectives of the reforn program of the Province of San
Juan as well as the actions to be taken in the areas of public finance, education and public health.
To implement this reform, the Provincial government requests the fiscal and technical assistance
of the World Bank. Below are the main components of the program.
- 22 -



1. Background
2.    The province of San Juan is a relatively poor province in the Northern region of Cuyo in
Argentina. Its per capita income was about $4,200 in 1995, about half Argentina's average.
Weak public administration led a to rapid growth in current expenditures and serious fiscal
imbalances, marked by excessive public employment. In 1995, the provincial deficit reached 44%
of current revenues, the wage bill absorbed 123% of the provincial net current revenues and the
debt stock/revenue ratio was above 901%.
3.    Due to lack of resources, capital expenditures were financed only from earmarked
transfers from the central government and commercial. debt guaranteed by shared revenues. In
the social sectors, the province faces serious poverty -- 19% of the families have non-satisfied
basic needs. Performance in the social sectors is poor despite the high share of resources these
sectors absorb.
2. Recent Development and Initial Adjustment
4.    San Juan is well endowed with agricultural and mining resources and has attracted private
investments in the last few years. However, it needs an efficient provincial economy in order to
compete within an open trade framework. The provincial government is committed to create the
favorable conditions of development within budgetary limits, favoring private imitative and social
justice. The support of a favorable Parliament has been fundamental to speedily implement the
proposed reforms since the provincial government was sworn in October 1995.
5.   In 1996, the Provincial Government took the first steps aimed at restoring fiscal balance
and reducing the size of government. These measures included: (a) reduction of the wage bill by
30%; (b) transference of the Provincial Pension Fund to the National government; (c)
privatization of the provincial Bank and the electricity utility; (d) an ongoing privatization of the
Water utility; (e) enactment of laws which allow flexibility and reduction of public employment
(Ley de Licencia y Ley de Emergencia del Personal de Salud); (f) progressive decentralization and
concession of public works and (g) beginning of 'Decentralization of Peripheral services" which
will allow the privatization of central government departments.
6.    As a result, the fiscal situation has improved: the current deficit fell from 53% of current
revenues in 1995, to 4% in 1996, and the wage bill declined from 123% of net revenues to 76%.
The debt stock is still high (84% of the current revenue) and there is a need for strict control in
order to enable the province to reach a sustainable fiscal balance in two years and develop a future
program of investment in the future, especially in the social sectors where we need priority
investments oriented to our poor.
3. The Reform Program of the Province of San Juan
7.    The strategy of the Provincial Government is to reduce the role of the public sector in the
regional economy, promote participation of the private sector, restructure the provincial
- 23 -



government and ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services. For the period
1997-99, the program unfolds into the following components.
8.    On the public finance front, the program calls for
*     Improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on
own-source revenues;
*     Civil service reform through personnel reform in selected areas, including privatization of
public services; controls aimed at lowering absenteeism and overpayments, and measures to
increase the quality and professionalism of public employment;
*     Rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government social spending,
maintaining current spending levels for the social sectors.
9.    In the social sectors, the government objective is to improve efficiency in the education
and health sectors, focusing on demand and poverty-reduction aspects, while promoting major
involvement by the private sector.
*     Education reform will ensure the extension of mandatory education (EGBII) and
implementation of the "polimodal" as well as guarantee access to the poor within current budget
constraints. Priority actions include: (a) increasing the student/teacher ratio and the ratio of
teachers to total staff, (b) reduce the disproportionate use of temporary and substitute education
personnel; (c) improve the incentives for quality achievement; (d) increase participation of the
private sector; and (e) reduce administrative costs.
*     Health reforms will improve efficiency and equity m the health sector, notably by
separating the provision and financing of public health services, implementing the law on hospital
autonomy, increased cost recovery, consolidation hospital facilities, reducing excessive staff and
reallocating resources to non-personnel expenditures, improving targeting to the poor, and
increasing health insurance coverage (within current health budget constraints).
3.1 Public Finance
10.   The provincial government is committed to obtain a sustained fiscal balance by the end of
1998, and to abide by strict creditworthiness rules. In particular, it intends to (a) obtain a current
surplus every year, (b) reduce personnel expenditures to 60% of net current revenues; (c) assure
fiscal surpluses large enough to reduce the debt stock to a sustainable level (less than 60% of
recurrent revenues) while keeping investment levels an adequate level): (d) maintain the debt
service at less than 15% of net revenues, even if this will be possible only after the debt stock is
completely refinanced and restructured.
11.   The fiscal objectives and benchmarks are shown in the Annex to this Letter. We estimate
that is possible to increase current revenues and cut expenditures in personnel in a stable manner.
- 24 -



The instruments to be used to this end are the following:
(a) Improved Tax Collection and Administration.
12.    During 1996, the province's own-source tax revenues registered a substantial increase in
relation to 1995, about 32%. If we include the increased taxes coming from special programs to
encourage tax payment, that increase was 36%. This experience indicates that the province win
be able to recover the drastic decline in own-source revenue that happened in 1995, and surpass
the 1992-94 level by about 17%.
13.   The provincial government. is committed to improve its tax management and
administration. The revenue increases will be used to offset the likely decline after 1997, of
extraordinary revenues associated with the tax amnesty, application of the CREFI to the payment
of delinquent debts, compensated by the increase in revenues generated by the province itself.
14.   To this aim, the province is finishing the Cadaster Project (urban and rural) which will lead
to a major revaluation of the base of the property tax, with full impact in 1998.
15.   The other component of the strengthening of own resource taxes is the Proyecto Integral
de Rentas currently financed by Bank-supported projects (Provinces I and II). Given the time
required to finish these projects and the urgency of improving the own-resources collection, the
province has prepared a short action plan which will begin in the second half of 1997, and will
allow estimates of the level of tax evasion which will guide auditing and lead to increases in the
effective tax collection levels. Moreover, the identification of the determinants of the provincial
tax collection will lead to the preparation of better projections in line with the tax resources. The
province expects to have the first results of this short-run program in the first quarter of 1998.
16.   Other programs, equally important, are being undertaken by the Tax Department with an
important expected impact on tax collection levels: (a) strengthening of the System to control the
large taxpayers (System 2,000); (b) cleaning of the Taxpayer Census; (c) implementation of the
agreement to complement information with the DGI; (d) use of information produced by SICOM
m relation with tax evasion or underpayment of the large tax payers.
17.   Our preliminary estimates indicate that it will be feasible for the province to maintain the
level of tax collection around $80 million during 1997 (despite the decline of revenues associated
with the tax amnesty and the decline in fiscal credit bonds), and reach $83.5 million in 1998 and
$91.2 million in 1999.
(b) Civil Service Reform.
18.    Personnel expenditures in San Juan represented 84% of net revenues in 1995, and 76%
in 1996. The control of personnel costs is critical to the fiscal recovery of the province. In this
context, the government has implemented a severe cut in the wages of the provincial staff which
- 25 -



reduced the wage bill substantially. In addition, there is a program to reduce public sector
employment financed by BOCEP (Bonos para la Creacion de Empleo Privado), financed by the
central government, that has led to separation packages of 692 people with a medium
compensation of $14,000.
19.   The government has considered a wide program of privatization of peripheral services to
encourage the outsourcing of public services in the form of enterprises formed by public workers.
The first experience was with several Mining Shops with very important and encouraging results.
The government is preparing a program of civil service transformation aimed at (i) reducing the
size of the work force; (ii) support and facilitate the insertion of ex-public workers into the private
sector, (iii) improve the work conditions of those who remain in the public sector.
20.   To this aim, the province is developing training programs, for the workers that remain in
the public sector and for those that will enter the private sector through early retirement. In this
last case, the program will be implemented taking advantage of the infrastructure and experience
in the private sector through the offer of "vouchers" which will allow the beneficiaries to use them
the best way in line with the market signs and their personnel preferences. The direct costs of the
program will be financed with 2% of the amount of the retirement which will be financed in equal
parts by the beneficiary and by the government.
21.   Due to the drastic wage cut in 1996, the wage in many categories is very low, with very
small wage differentials between categories and levels of responsibility. Large number of levels
have wages that do not correspond to the responsibility and skills required for the job. The
government will proceed in the reform of the wage scale, with the identification of critical
positions, which will be able to become a professional public service and the restructuring of the
wage scale for the whole public sector and the wage restructuring including criteria of
productivity in the remuneration.
22.   To be able to proceed with the objectives of its policy of human resource development,
the provincial government will use other instruments such as voluntary retirement, transference of
public workers employed in the provincial hotels. Water utility (Obras Sanitarias), casino, and the
Bus Terminal -- all of which are being privatized -- as well as the design and execution of the
early retirement program financed by own resources with attractive conditions for public sector
workers.
(c) Rationalizing Public Expenditure.
23.   Together with the reduction in wage costs and improvement of tax collection, the
government will continue the policy of no subsidies to public enterprises (now mostly privatized)
and will ensure that public spending will be oriented to priority sectors having in line strict criteria
of economic and financial justification.
24.   Capital expenditures will increase from $56 million (9% of total expenditures) in 1996 to
$76 million in 1998. Half will be financed by provincial public savings. The remaining will be
financed by earmarked transfers from the center. The planned level of investment expenditures
- 26 -



would be reduced to the extent that the anticipated financing sources do not materialize.
25.   The stock of debt will decline from US$401 million in 1996, to'US$288 million in 1999.
New borrowing will be exclusively allowed to refinance old debt or finance amortization or well
justified projects.
26.   The Three year Public Expenditure Plan mirrors the priorities of the government, e.g.
social sectors, poverty alleviation, including education, health, potable water and environment.
All investment projects will have adequate justification, with an ERR of at least 10%. New public
work projects should be submitted in line with the new Law of Purchases and Procurement to
make them more open and to encourage private sector development.
27.   To ensure the continuity of the process of transparency and budgetary accountability, the
government will propose and pass in the Legislature a law of financial discipline based on four
principles of financial management: (i) balanced annual budgets with current surplus -- no
borrowing will be permitted to finance current expenditures; (ii) annual external auditing by
independent auditors; (iii) limits in the debt stock below 65% of recurrent revenues and personal
costs below 65% of net current revenues; (iv) public works will be procured in line with the new
law of procurement of the province as it would be conducive to increased participation of the
private sector.
3.2 Education
28.   Framework: Education in the province of San Juan faces the challenge of extending
compulsory education in line with the Federal Law on Education and improving efficiency and
educational quality. In San Juan's education budget, the wage bill represents 99% of the total
budget. The investment comes totally through National programs for a total of $11 million in
1996 (PRODYMES $1.7 million; PRISE $0.3 millions; BID $2.4 million; Plano Social Educativo,
$4.6 million; Pacto Federal, $1.2 million and MCEN $0.9 million). The policy of the province is
to be able to generate savings to be able to extend the third part of the basic education, within the
current budgetary constraints, while recovering the wages of the teachers in line with the
educational quality.
29.   During 1996, the province undertook a deep adjustment in educational spending and took
several decisions to face this situation. From 1995 to 1996, the budget allocated to education was
cut by 29 %, that is, from $188.2 million to $134.8 million. The reduction came mainly from the
cuts in wages in 1995 (Decree Agreement No 006/95) and the reorganization of the
planta-funcional of the schools which allowed an increase in the student/teacher ratio from 13.8 to
16.7 in the public system between 1994/96. In terms of relevant laws, the province enacted (i) the
law on leave for teachers (Ley sobre el nuevo sistema de Licencias y Franquicias); (ii) Emergency
Education Law; (iii) the Provincial Education law; and (iv) the Law ratifying the Federal Pacto
Educativo.
30.  In the next years, the government will deepen the transformation of the educational sector
- 27 -



according to the following guidelines: (i) gradual expansion of the compulsory education; (ii)
implementation of new curriculum together with teacher training; (iii) reform of the central
administration of the Ministry of education and the decentralization of the financial administration
m regions and towards the schools: (iv) the reorganization of the plantas-funcionales and (v) the
restructuring the non-university Higher Education.
31.   The govermnent wants to deepen the process of improving the administration of the
educational sector to lower the wage bill to 94% of the total budget and generate a capacity of $5
million in two years. This level of investment (including training, incentives, equipment and
maintenance, and infrastructure) will allow to increase quality, generate new school capacities and
promote incentives in teachers. The reforms to reach this objective are the following: (i) improve
the administration of the human resources; (h) improving the efficiency of the sector; (iii) promote
decentralization of the sector, (iv) extend incentives to the private-, sector and (v) restructure the
Teacher Training institutes.
a)    The improvement of the human resource administration will generate substantial
savings. The administrative staff of the Ministry at the central level includes 373 people and could
be reduced to 60 people. This will generate savings of about $0.6 year. The implementation of
the new leave system and control of absenteeism (already full implemented) would generate
another $0.1 million in 1998. Next year the government will create a wage system which will
include a system of incentives and quality premia.
b)    To improve educational efficiency, the govermment will promote a better utilization of-
the school structures. In the primary education, the Ministry of Education did a major
re-arranging of people and infrastructure. The objective is to increase the student/teacher ratio to
19:1 in 1998. In the secondary education, it is, expected that savings will reach $2.8 millions by
the reduction of 4,490 teaching hours. In 1997 and 1998, the potential savings is $0.3 millions
pay the reordering of the classes size and the reduction of 125 teaching positions.
c)    The province is coimmitted to promote the decentralization of educational
management and the optimization of the educational spending, promote the quality in the school
to answer the needs in the poorest zones or where the levels of repetition or drop out are special
high. The province is committed to develop a management model and create in 1997 an $2
million Incentive Fund to finance decentralized initiatives to improve quality and finance a
program pilot schools.
d)    To promote the development of the private sector, the government aims at reducing the
substantial dispersion in the per-student subsidy . The 1997 budget has allocated $16.3 million to
85 schools (out of 92) representing an average of $700 per student. A more equitable allocation
would allow the promote new capacities and to improve the educational quality. This way of
allocation by teachers is not equitable and does not provide incentives to the private sector which
accounts for 14% of the enrolments. In 1997, the government will diagnosis the situation of the
financing of the private sector and will prepare an action plan which will design alternatives of
financing. In 1998, the province will adopt a system of subsidies according to a formula that will
include the cost per student as well as regional factors and social indicators.
- 28 -



e)    The Teacher Training institutes have been reformed since 1995. During 1996 and 1997,
the number of teacher training institutes has declined to eight and four were converted into
Technical schools. The government will continue reducing the enrollment to limit the institutes to
six and reconvert six into technical schools. The further reduction in enrollments will lead to a
decline in teaching hours (around 700) or I 1% budgetary savings. The annual budget for the
teacher training institutes is actually $6.8 million.
32.   The government of San Juan is committed to increase the educational budget so as to
reach $146.7 million in 1998 so as to be able to maintain the wage bill, increase some the lowest
wages and guarantee that the savings obtained by the proposed actions are used and invested
within the sector to enable a better quality system.
33.   Monitoring system. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services
rendered to the community, the government of San Juan will use the system of indicators (Table
F5 in Annex) which will allow the government to monitor the way how the reform unfolds and the
long-run impact in the education quality and school coverage. In primary school, the subsidies
ranges between $135 and $469 for an average $265 and in die urban schools from 47 to 307; in
the urban secondary schools the subsidy ranges from 147 to 950. In the institutions of teacher
training the cost per student if $2,714 with a range of $731 and $4,550. The cost by graduate
varies between $1,711 and $12,303
3.3 Health
34.   The provincial government has given the first steps to reform the sector of public health
especially in terms of paying the debts of the Obra Social Provincial, the reform of the purchasing
contracts of the Obra Social Provincial and of Secretaria de Estado de Salud Publica (SESP) , and
the reductions in the staff which started in 1995-96. The government has planned larger
reductions in personnel, taking into account (a) that the administrative positions will not exceed
more dm 30% of the personnel; (b) the reductions i the personnel costs could contribute to
change the structure of expenditures in favor of goods and services, non-personnel costs and
investments.
35.   These policies are based on strategic guidelines aiming at improve the efficiency of the
expenditures in the sector, favoring the poor segments of the population and those without public
health insurance. In this context the government has decided that (i) there will be no reductions in
the health budget; (b) the revenues that accrue to the autonomous hospitals and other savings will
be administered by the SESP and by the directors of the hospitals autonomous; (c) the savings
obtained by the reduction in personnel costs will be allocated to increase inputs and non-personnel
spending; (d) the government will develop a new model of management for hospital personnel,
reform the payment system in the context of the SESP and the Obra Social Provincial, and there
will be incentives to personnel based on productivity, efficiency and efficacy, financed by a
percentage of the cost recovery.
36.   To make these measures sustainable, the government reform program includes changes in
- 29 -



the following areas:
*     Public providers: to improve the efficiency of procurement and contracting, the legal
framework will be reformed, including the direct management of the autonomous hospitals.
*     Financing: the restructuring and strengthening of the OSP, the development of laws and
norms, management and information system to improve the billing and collection of the service
payments that the hospitals made to the beneficiaries of the health insurance (public, private and
mixed); the creation of a Provincial Health Insurance (Seguro Provincial ale Salud) which will
include the resources of the OSP and the budget funds of the Secretary of Public Health. This
Seguro Provincial de Salud will aim at improve the parameters of equity in the system, reaching
the target population (poor and without insurance coverage) and to reach important savings by
improvement of the efficiency in the allocation of funds.
*     In the Secretary of Public Health, the government will reform the institution, strengthen
its capacity as controlling (financing and medical quality) and regulatory agency (notable by
managing the health contracts with the autonomous hospitals).
37.   The areas of intervention and the objectives are the following:
*     Personnel: the staff in the health public sector will decline to reach 3,800 employees; the
costs in personnel will not exceed 70% of the sector budget
*     Autonomous Hospitals: Five hospitals will become autonomous (including the Hospital
Quiroga) and the development plan to made Hospital Rawson autonomous will be prepared.
These hospitals will be financed by the sale of their services within the budgetary limits.
*     Payment Systems: the government will develop a new payment system based on
parameters that promote efficiency, productivity, and transparency of transactions.
*     Provincial Health System: the government will prepare and introduce in the legislature a
draft law to create the new system. Moreover, the govermnent will obtain $1.8 million in cost
recovery
*     Obra Social Provincial: the government will develop and implement the restructuring of
the management of OSP and will complete its financial recovery
*     Secretaria de Estado de Salud Publica: the SESP will be strengthened as agent of control
and regulatory body of the public health system in the province
38.   Monitoring System: To be able to follow up on the evolution of the quality of the
services rendered to the community the provincial government will use the system of indicators in
Table F6.
39.   The provincial government is aware that the reform process will require the strengthening
- 30 -



of the SESP so it can undertake the financial, legal and management efforts needed to implement
the reform. Technical assistance will be needed in the following areas:
* redefinition of the legal framework and development of the administration model and
management;
*  design of the new payment systems and implementation;
* design of the legal framework for the Provincial Health Insurance;
* institutional diagnosis of the OSP, restructuring plan and proposal of implementation;
* design of the new structure of the SESP.
40.   This program will be financed by PRESSAL (Ministry of Health), Provinces I e 11
(Ministerio de Interior), resources for the proposed loan and the funds of the province.
41.   Financial Needs: Table H3 in Annex includes the 3 -year program which is compatible
with the above program.
4. Impact of the Reform Program in Environment
42.   Given the nature of the reform program, its implementation should have no negative
impact on the environment. To this end, the government will undertake an environmental audit of
the hospitals mentioned above financed by the technical assistance of PRESSAI, and before the
transformation of the hospitals into autonomous hospitals. The terms of reference, the proposed
consultant's CV, and the resulting report will be satisfactory to the Bank. The recommendations
of the audits will be implemented by the Autonomous Public Hospital. The government is
committed to review the legal and institutional framework -- which includes the organ of
environment supervision -- regulating the management of the hospital pathologic waste. The
government is also committed to implement the improvement in the legal framework which will
be necessary, in line with the normal rules and standards, accepted by the Argentine Republic, to
ensure the collection, transport treatment and final deposition of pathological wastes.
5. Letter of Provincial Reform of San Juan
43.   In line with the above, the provincial government agrees that the National Government
should include, in the Loan Agreement to be signed with the World Bank, one Annex with the
details on the objectives considered in the Provincial Development Letter and referred to in the
Policy Matrix attached.
6. Justification for the Request of World Bank Assistance
44.   Mr. Wolfensohn, I would like to insist on the importance given by this province to the
support of the Bank to our Provincial Reform Program. First, I would like to mention the
importance of the financial support which will allow the financing of the adjustment costs and
priority outlays. Second, I would mention the technical and professional support receive from
your staff with whom we have worked. Third, the fact that the flank is supporting our program of
reform gives us the confidence on the quality of our own program and will help us to attract the
- 31 -



private investors.
Sincerely,
Dr. Jorge A. Escobar
- 32 -



Policy Matrix
Activity                     Accomplished                     Second Tranche                    Third Tranche
General Condition               Legal opinion confirming the
constitutionality of the reforms
included in the program and
conditions of tranche disbursement
PUBLIC FINANCE
Fiscal Balance                 Agreement on targets for the      Three - month current account    Three month current account
program                          surplus of at least US$2.5million  surplus of at least $ 5 million
equivalent                       equivalent ($20 million annualized
Cut in personnel               Identification of components      Number of provincial public sector   Personnel Cost equal to no more
Cost and Conversion of Public                                    staff is 1.140 lower than the    than 65% of net current revenues
Employment                                                       number of position budgeted in
1997                             Provincial public sector staff is
reduced by additional 617 position
(excluding autonomous hospitals)
Stock of Debt                   Debt has been restructured and                                    Debt stock equal to or less than
short -term debt has been replaced                                60% of current revenues
by longer term debt                                               Enactment of Law of Financial
Discipline as mentioned in the
LPR
Tax Reform                      Structure of vehicle tax has been  Provincial tax structure has been
simplified. Infrastructure to    substantially simplified, notably
connect data basis between       with respect to the urban and rural
Direction General de Rentas and  property taxes.
cadaster has been substantially
installed . Prepared to fiither
simplify taxes
Public Expenditure Program     Agreement on a 3 year PEP which    Positive Review by the Bank     Positive Review by the Bank,
(until 1999)                    is consistent with the objective of  Extemal Auditing of the Provincial   Extemal Auditing of the Provincial
the Program and is included in the    Public Accounts; public disclosure    Public Accounts; public disclosure
Letter of Provincial Reform      of audit reports.                of audit reports
- 33 -



EDUCATIONAL POLICY REFORM
Improve Administration of Human  Prepared new leave system      Implemented new program to
Resources                      Invitation for bids for award of the  control sick leave and absenteeism.
contract to control public school    Creation of Incentive Fund to
sick leave and absenteeism      provide support to secondary and
polimodal schools
Increase Educational Efficiency    First consolidation at primary level Consolidation in primary public    Student: teacher ratio is maintained
education to increase the student:   at no less than 19:1 in primary
New stnicturesplantas          teacher ratio to 17:1            public schools
organico-funcionales (POF)
approved and implemented at the
middle level
Activity                     Accomplished                   Second Tranche                  Third Tranche
Teacher Training Institutes     Reduce the number of enrollments  Limit the teacher training institute  Limit the teacher training institute
to seven and Tecnicaturas to six;   to no more than six
Transform or closed excessive   savings will be 700 teaching hours
public teacber training institute  ( 11%) per 50faculty positions
Sector Management              Agreement on Budget and public  Sought legislative authorization to  Sought legislative authorization for
expenditure program.            make available an amount        education budget equal to that for
equivalent in real terms to at least  1996 or at least $150 million
the annual amount budgeted for    equivalent whichever is higher;
1996 or equivalent to at least $146  percentage spent in wages is equal
million                        to no more than 94% of education
sector expenditures
Wage bill is equal to no more than
96.5% of the sector budget
Sought legislative authorization to  Sought legislative authorization so
have savings in the personnel stay in that budget amount will be
the sector and finance non-personnel maintained and will not be
costs                          transferred to other sectors and that
saving in personnel will be used to
finance invests and bonus costs
Sought legislative authorization to  Sought legislative authorization to
have safeguards in place to maintain have safeguards in place to
education budget                maintain education budget
Private Sector Incentives       Prepared TOR an ensured the     Formula of public schools subsidies
financing of technical assistance to  implemented in private schools
prepare basic formula for private
school subsidies
- 34 -



HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Sector Budget                  Plan of Expenditures discussed;    Sought legislative authorization to  Sought legislative authorization so
1997 health budget maintains at    use savings from reductions in staff that (i) budget at least at the 1996
least the 1996 level in real prices   to provide performance incentives  level in real prices ;(ii) budget
(presented to legislature for  or finance investments or inputs, to amounts will be maintained and will
approval)                      maintain sector budget at no less   not be transferred to other sector
than real 1996 budget levels, and to and (iii) savings in personnel will be
actually allow full use of budget.   used to finance invests and bonus
costs
Personnel                      Agreement in targets and the    Staff reduced to 4.150 by      Personnel cost represents at most
mechanics to reduce personnel  outsourcing and other separation    72% of health budget
mechanism
Staff of Health Secretary reduced
to 3,800 total permanent and
temporary
Autonomous Hospitals           Agreement on strategy to separate   At least five hospitals have become  At least five hospitals have become
provision from financing of public  autonomous.               autonomous.
health services.
New payment system is          New payment system is
Completion of terms of reference for implemented in decentralized  implemented in decentralized
design of new payment system   hospitals                      hospitals
Activity                    Accomplished                   Second Tranche                  Third Tranche
Provincial Health Insurance    Agreement to create a Provincial   Completion of Roster with potential Presenting to Legislature Law to
Health Insurance to province health beneficiaries of the new insurance   create a new Provincial Health
insurance to those not covered by   system (poor)             Insurance
any other system.
Completion of terms of reference for Definition of the Medical Program
design of new health benefits  applicable to the poor and OSP
package
Roster with beneficiaries of the new
insurance system (obra social)
Obras Sociales Provinciales    Plan to improve structure with new  Implementation of the new
organization                   management structure
Restructuring of the of the    Agreement to change the Secretariat New structure in place
Secretariat of Health          of Health into a regulator agency
- 35 -



Change in Own-Source Revenues by Province
1996-2000
(US$ 000)
PRL-2 Provinces           1996          1997         1998         1999         2000       Growth
.________________________  ____ ____ ___   ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _  96-2000
Rio Negro                124,120.0     129,720.8   147,502.6   135,428.2   141,852.1         14.3%
Salta                    115,031.6     130,543.0   133,560.1   146,925.9   142,424.7         23.8%
San Juan                  79,313.6      91,389.0   100,168.2    90,432.4    92,161.0          16.2%
Tucuman                  150,007.7     166,957.0   179,318.3   179,107.9   188,125.7          25.4%
Sub-Total     468,472.9     518,609.8   560,549.2   551,894.4   564,563.5          20.5%
NON PRL-2 Provinces
Sub-Total   9,333,461.2  10,378,610.2 11,089,894.0 10,410,055.0 10,295,941.3       10.3%
TOTAL PROVINCES
Total    9,801,934.1  10,897,220.0 11,650,443.2 10,961,949.4 10,860,504.8      10.8%
Change in Personnel Expenditure by Province
1996-2000
PRL-2 Provinces           1996          1997         1998         1999        2000        Growth
_____________ ____________   ______________   _______________   ______________   ______________   _____________ _  96-2000
Rio Negro                391,865.3     383,556.0   386,949.7   377,392.7   374,218.7          -4.5%
Salta                    467,365.9     458,324.3   462,830 6    474,718.7   459,137.6         -1.8%
San Juan                 317,479.8     347,125.7   386,195.0   400,344.7   417,793.7          31.6%
Tucuman                  507,825.0     538,765.0   522,370.0   557,937.0   548,431.3           8.0%
Sub-Total   1,684,536.0   1,727,771.0  1,758,345.3  1,810,393.1  1,799,581.3        6.8%
NON PRL-2 Provinces |             i             r
Sub-Total  13,067,621.3  13,919,037.1 15,077,395.5 16,207,831.3 16,896,438.0       29.3%
TOTAL PROVINCES                     _           r
Total   14,752,157.3 15,646,808.10 16,835,740.8 18,018,224.4 18,696,019.3      26.7%
- 36-



Letter to Governor Avelin: Summary of ICR
14 de junio de
2001
Dr. Alfredo Avelin
Gobernador de San Juan
Paula A. de Sarmiento 134 Norte
(5400) San Juan
Ref: Segundo Programa de Reforma Provincial (4220-AR)
Estimado Sr. Gobernador:
Me dirijo a usted para presentarle la sintesis del informe final sobre el Segundo Pr6stamo
de Reforma Provincial (PRL II), con el fin de analizar el desarrollo del mismo, y compartir con
usted algunas reflexiones acerca del programa.
En primer lugar, entendemos que el programa fue inicialmente acordado con el anterior
gobemador y que muchas de las fallas en terminos de objetivos alcanzados pueden atribuirse a la
falta de control fiscal durante los ultimos meses de la administraci6n precedente. Al mismo
tiempo, las negociaciones que mantuvimos con funcionarios de su gobierno indican que ellos
comparten nuestro interes en continuar con los esfuerzos puestos en trabajar sobre el rendimiento
y la eficiencia fiscal, la calidad y equidad en los gastos resaltados en el diagn6stico inicial, y en el
disefio del programa subsiguiente. Efectivamente, las acciones realizadas parcialmente en la
reforma del sector salud muestran un compromiso por parte de la provincia en estos temas.
Como sabra, el objetivo de ayudar a la provincia de San Juan a reformar su sector publico,
asi como el de asegurar una eficiente y responsable prestaci6n de servicios puiblicos en educaci6n
y salud junto con politicas fiscales de relevancia no han sido alcanzados aiu. Aunque la provincia
cumpli6 con los objetivos del segundo tramo en las areas fiscales y sociales de educaci6n y de
salud, esos esfuerzos se vieron reducidos durante los ultimos meses de la administraci6n anterior
y, posteriormente, no fueron adoptados de forma inmediata ni energica por el nuevo equipo.
- 37 -



En materia fiscal, se realizaron con exito las primeras medidas destinadas a encaminar el
balance fiscal y reducir el tamafno del gobierno en 1996. Bajo el programa, el gobierno busc6
alcanzar y mantener un superavit, reducir el gasto en personal relativo y el stock de deuda,
manteniendo, mientras tanto, las inversiones a un nivel adecuado. Con respecto al gasto, no se
asociaron las medidas para aumentar los salarios, luego del principal ajuste de 1996, con los
esfuerzos para mejorar el sistema del servicio civil para mejorar el rendimiento. Ademas, estos
aumentos tampoco fueron sostenidos ni se realizaron ajustes en otras areas a la luz del deterioro
de la economia hacia finales de 1998. La tendencia a aumentar los gastos en personal no ha sido
revertida durante su administraci6n. Como resultado, este gasto creci6 el 20% a lo largo del
periodo 1997-2000, comparado con el de las demas provincias del programa, donde el
crecimiento fue menor al 2%. En cuanto a los ingresos, no fueron sostenidos los aumentos
iniciales en la recaudaci6n de impuestos y, de hecho, se deterioraron luego de 1998, lo que
contribuy6 a empobrecer el rendimiento fiscal. Para el futuro, estamos motivados por la decisi6n
de la provincia de participar en el programa federal de asistencia a las deudas provinciales bajo el
fondo fiduciario, y le deseamos el mejor de los 6xitos en el logro del objetivo de alcanzar el
balance fiscal en el afio 2004.
En materia educativa, los estudios que se Ilevaron a cabo durante la misi6n de preparaci6n
encontraron que la educaci6n en la provincia de San Juan estaba caracterizada por altos costos y
bajos resultados, que presentaba problemas de equidad, y que el gasto en personal dominaba el
presupuesto del sector, dejando poco lugar para financiar otros insumos e inversiones. Por medio
del programa, se busc6 extender la educaci6n basica, y mejorar la eficiencia, calidad y equidad,
dentro de un contexto de importantes limitaciones fiscales y reajuste de salarios. Los ahorros
para financiar estos cambios fueron generados a traves de las mejoras en la administraci6n de los
recursos humanos, del aumento de la proporci6n entre alumnos y maestros, y de la reducci6n del
uso de maestros sustitutos. Estos logros generaron, hacia 1998, la disminuci6n de los gastos en
personal educativo mejorando, incluso, el objetivo inicial del programa. Auin asi, se recomienda
que las refornas iniciadas deben ser continuadas y monitoreadas a fin de que no se deterioren. El
nuevo sistema de retiro implementado con exito debe ser controlado, dado que los indicadores
han comenzado a elevarse nuevamente. Si bien se ha mostrado un compromiso por continuar con
las refornas, es necesaria una mayor voluntad para implementar el ajuste necesario en el nivel de
salarios junto con la implementaci6n de un nuevo sistema de pagos basado en los meritos, asi
como tambien mas medidas para descentralizar las decisiones en materia educativa.
En el sector salud, los estudios preparatorios indicaron que una cantidad sustancial de
recursos de la provincia de San Juan estaba destinada a este sector, pero que la equidad del
servicio provisto a los sectores carenciados era muy pobre. Para promover un mejor y mas
eficiente servicio de salud, el programa busc6 apoyar la transformaci6n de los hospitales publicos
en hospitales descentralizados. Los primeros pasos comenzaron en 1995 y 1996 por medio de la
reducci6n de personal y la intervenci6n de la obra social de los empleados piublicos, con el objeto
de ponerla sobre bases financieras sostenibles. Los logros obtenidos con estas reformas apoyaron
la implementaci6n de un seguro de salud para los pobres, medida que super6 las expectativas del
programa. Por otro lado, el objetivo de separar la provisi6n de servicios de salud puiblica de su
financiaci6n fue demasiado ambicioso para un programa de 2 afios. A comienzos de 1999, con la
- 38 -



legislaci6n sobre descentralizaci6n en vigencia, la provincia comenz6 con el proceso de
descentralizaci6n de hospitales en dos grandes hospitales de la capital provincial, donde tambien
se estableci6 un exitoso sistema de recuperaci6n de costos. A pesar de los avances logrados en
este aspecto, es necesario contar con mas esfuerzos. Al mismo tiempo, continua siendo necesario
que se tomen medidas tendientes a consolidar las facilidades hospitalarias y mejorar la calidad del
servicio. Por otra parte, habria que mejorar el acceso de los servicios de salud a los sectores
pobres y proporcionarles un sistema de seguro medico. En total, se reconocen las reformas
implementadas en este sector, pero dado que algunas han sido revertidas, seria muy conveniente
que se acentuen los esfuerzos a fin de reducir el exceso de personal y reasignar recursos en
inversiones.
A pesar de que los objetivos del tercer tramo del prestamo no se alcanzaron, creemos que
la profundizaci6n de las reforTnas iniciadas, junto con el fortalecimiento institucional y una
voluntad explicita por mantener los programas en ejecuci6n, pueden ayudar a avanzar en aquellas
areas a donde todavia quedan reformas por llevar a cabo.
Sin otro particular, me despido de usted atentamente,
Myma Alexander
Directora
Direcci6n Subregional
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay y Uruguay
c.c.: Cdor. Hugo Garnero, Subsecretario de Relaciones con las Provincias
Dra. Gloria Rutti, Coordinadora del Proyecto
- 39 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
tndicatormarix                     PrTjee in last PSR                    ActualLat  Estimate
PUBLIC FINANCE                        January-March 1999: surplus in current  Current deficit projected to reach $30 million
Fiscal balance: obtain a current surplus  spending of $4.4 million, but deficit of 5% of for year 2000
every year;                           current revenues for the entire year 1999.
(b) Reduce wage bill to 60% of net current   Reached 81% for 1999.          Estimated at 78% for 2000
revenues.
(c) Reduce debt stock to less than 60% of   Estimated at 110% for 1999.     Estimated at 105% for 2000
recurrent revenues while keeping investment
levels an adequate level.
(d) Tax administration reform.        Tax structure simplification for: tumover tax, Collections declined by 10% in 1999, but are
stamp tax, automobile tax. Updated cadaster back up slightly in 2000.
helped to double collection of property tax
during during 1996-98, with overall increse of
25%.
EDUCATIONAL POLICY REFORM             The Incentive Fund established and    Sick leaves reported to be on the rise again.
(a) Administration of human resources:  implemented in 1999. 25% of sick leaves
implement new program to control teachers' reduced by 1998
sick leave and absenteeism; create Incentive
Fund to provide support to secondary and
polimodal schools.
(b) Educational efficiency: consolidation of   Student-teacher ratio: 17:1 achieved in  More recent figures not supplied by province.
primary educaton classes to increase the    1998-99
student-teacher ratio to 17:1 in the first
phase and 19:1 in the second phase.
(c) Teacher training institutes: limit number  7 teacher training insttutes remain.  7 teacher training institutes remain
of institutes to seven;
(d) Sector management: 1998 educaton  Expenditure in education: $182 million in  More recent figures not supplied by province.
budget is at least $146 million, with wage bill 1998-99. Personnel: 88% of the budget 1998
at 96.5% of the budget; savings in the
personnel stay in the sector and finance
non-personnel costs.
(e) Private schools: implement        Public subsidies to private schools at 10% of New system not fully implemented and under
formula-based subsidies for private schools. total sector spending in 1999  review by new administration.
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                  1999 budget: at $85.6 million.        More recent figures not supplied by province.
(a) Sector budget: Savings from reductions
in staff is used to finance performance
incentives, investments or inputs.
1998 and 1999 budget are at least at the
1996 level in real prices.
(b) Personnel; Staff reduced to 4,150 by  Personnel cost: 80% of health budget in  No recent figures, but new interest in
outsourcing and other separaton       1997-98. Health staff reduced to 4145 in    bringing down staff costs, with new
mechanism. Personnel cost represents at   1999                              proposals for downsizing.
most 72% of 1998 health budget. Staff of
Health Secretary reduced to 3,800.
(c) Autonomous hospitals. In first phase, 5   The two largest hospitals in the province,    Decentralizabon effort stalled, but renewed
hospitals will become autonomous; new  Quiroga and Rawson, have implemented the interest recently shown.
payment system is implemented in     reforms in 1999. They have advanced the
decentralized hospitals: In the second phase Third Tranche target
two additional hospitals become
autonomous.
-40 -



(d) Provincial health insurance. Completion  25.000 people enrolled in the new program.  Province is maintaining approach, but new
of roster with potential beneficiaries of the   300-500 beneficaries added daily  administration is proposing new needs-based
new insurance system (poor); definition of                                   methodology.
the Medical Program applicable to the poor
and OSP;
(d) Introduction in the provincial Assembly
Law to create a new the Provincial Health
Insurance;
(e) Obras Sociales Provinciales:      Operating surplus attained in past two years. Update not supplied by province, but OSP
Implementation of the new structure                                          still under intervention.
(f) Restructuring of the Secretariat of Health
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                   Projeced in last PSR                   ActuaIJLatst Estmate
End of project
-41 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Total Baseline Cost                               0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs            0.00
Total Financing Required            0.00           0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
_________L= __________=_    (0.00)     (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
_____________________  ={(0.00)    (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
==  , (0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
I   (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                    0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)                  (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
-42-



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Perentage of Appraisal
Componert              Appraisal Estimate            AtuaVL*test Est te           -              -
Bank      Govt.     CoF.       Bank      Govt.      CF.    Rank   Govt   CoF,
-43 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
-44 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/96                       7   TM, FM, EcF, PS, SS, ED, PS
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/97                        7   T, EcF, SS, ED, PS, C, C
12/97                       8   TM, EcF, SS, ED, SS, PS, C,        S             S
C
2/98                        2   TM, PSM                            S             S
4/98                        1  EcF                                 S             S
5/98                        5   TM, PSM, ED, Hlth, SS              S             S
9/98                        4   TM, ED, PSM, Hlth                  S             S
4/99                        4   TM, PSM, Hlth, ED                  S             S
6/99                        3   TM, Hlth, ED, PSM                  S             S
9/99                        4   TM,Hlth, ED, PSM                   U             S
12/99                       2   TM, Hlth                           U             S
3/00                        4   TM, PSM, ED, Hlth                  U            HU
5/00                        3   TM, Hith, ED                       U            HU
ICR
9/00                        1   TM                                 U            HU
10/00                       2    Hlth, C                           U            HU
11/00                       2    ED, C                             U            HU
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                20                     $73,531
Appraisal/Negotiation                      6                     $29,482
Supervision                               20                     $49,700
$30. 600 (WPA)
ICR                                        7              $43,900 (WPA)
Total                                     53             $152,713 (direct)
$74,500 (WPA)
-45 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
aMacro policies                         O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
I Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OI Financial                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OI Environmental                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L7i Gender                        OH OSUOM ON *NA
l Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  o NA
LI Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
I Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  o NA
-46 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
D Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS   O  U  O HU
D  Government implementation performance             OHS OS   O U   O HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS O s  0 U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  * u O HU
- 47 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Report and Recommendation of the President (Report No. P-7 1 36-AR)
Intensive Learning ICR for Salta (Report No. 20698)
Intensive Learning ICR for Tucuman (Report No. 20699)
Release of the Second Tranche (SecM99)
Project File containing Bank documents and provincial progress reports)
-48 -



-49 -






IBRD 29348
1 71o ?                     r   ~~~~~~~~~~61O                                        51so                - 
-20      'I    rR          BOLIVIA               !                                                                                20-
PARAGUAY
~   .San tIaclor      0,9BRAZIL~ 
!                  uiuy              Os                                   B  R  A  Z  I L i
SALTAj
'!,  t-    _   S A L TA;   E   _,  \ s Formosn .           
*                              I co   \ <   erutm6n   | CHAC "C
5    'tv  T   * u ANTtjym6n    R.,istenci        Posadas .1, 0
)  %~   TLJUMASANTIA GO'    teise
I        ,<Cmc/ ,R <3 c0Santiago del otero    Carrientes     /f
mraDEL
I Lu   .             s '   ESTERO                  ,       \    ' 
J   La Riolax3    \    _        |{  C9                J 
, I    * -. RIOJA\,                 j SANTA
-30,        p (, r  SAN  \FE   ,D
JUAN    'C6rdba/n
(    San Ju~J~                    F *ta%`P/ran
Z \   ,>          _s   l NCQRDOBA   e            E
\   Mendoza\    So             A          ENTRE
LJ4 ~~    * 0                       /   <   URUGUAY
41J      K      rl\SANj                         / 
o               ,?9           \LUIS |        r                 e  os Aires
I'   MENDOZA:                 1         
So Santa RosaBUENOS                                            ATLANTIC
t<)   i  SLA  I   AIRES            /
- 0       -21   ~PA MPA If
INEUQUENI1(-                   !                                                        C
\ Neuquen                                                                         OCEAN
CL                   2       RIO
-                (0/    NEGRO                                                                                                      AO-
'K 1g&, _ _ ._--<e                                                  ARGENTINA
Nuevo
.                      ( tg3~~~~Rweon
CHUB3UT 
-C                 U                                                 0     PROVINCE CAPITALS
2 -  X    -           <                                            63    NATIONAL CAPITAL
6<t ti_--- -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
,'N)X    -ft            <   >                                         - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
S SANTA
Ca tr     CRUZ                      FALKLAND ISLANDS
(MALVINAS)
~15                   0  100200 300400500 600 KItOMETERS
-                   A DMTT6 CNN       tl  OV9 TH
dSAS  S&TWN ARENTAf K                         aAMS           0     100    200    300    ADO MI
tA,<>    >~~~~~~~N TO5509FReC4M AND DE IJK, WHal AOMisMYER5        iO     2       0        I
vict  @ \                                               This mop was prodoed by the Mop Design It of The World Sonk.
U  sha                                   The boundaries, coloms, denomntions ottd onyother inforomtion shown
>                 I fERRA                         on this mop do notimply, on the part of Th World Bak Group,ny
4     DEL FU,SEGO                  idgrmnt on the lieotss of ony tEeritory, or any endorsement or
orceptomv of 5u hodories.
70'                                            40                                               50'
APRIL 1998



