Document of
The World Bank
FOR. OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7136-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
FOUR PROPOSED SECONI) PROVINCIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOANS
IN THE AMOUNITS OF US$75 MILLION, US$75 MILLION
US$50 MILLION, AND US$100 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
TO SUPPORT FOUR REFORMING PROVINCES
RIO NEGRO, SALTA, SAN JUAN, AND TUCUMAN
July 30, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Peso
US$1 = ARG$1
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 3 1L
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOCEP         Bono para la Creaci6n de Empleo Privado (Bonds to Create Private Jobs)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CPE           Consejo Provincial de Educaci6n (Ministry of Education in Rio Negro)
CPI           Consumer Price Index
CPSP          Consejo Provincial de Salud Publica (Ministry of Health, Rio Negro)
CREFI         Bonos de Credito Fiscal (Provincial Bonds, San Juan)
DGI           Direcci6n General Impositiva (National Tax Department)
DGR           Direcci6n General de Rentas (Provincial Revenues Department)
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
HPA           Hospital Puiblico Autonomo (Autonomous Public Hospital)
IDB           Interamerican Development Bank
IDEVI         Instituto de Desarrollo de la Vivienda (Housing Institute, Rio Negro)
IRR           Internal Rate of Return
IPPV          Instituto Provincial de Politica Vial (Road Institute, Rio Negro)
IPSS          Instituto Provincial de Seguro de Salud (Provincial Health Insurance Institute)
LPR           Letter of Provincial Reform
MCBA          Municipalidad de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires (City of Buenos Aires)
MCEN          Ministerio de Cultura y Educacion Nacional (Ministry of Education)
MSP           Ministerio de Salud Publica (Ministry of Health)
NBI           Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas (Unsatisfied Basic Needs)
OSP           Obra Social Provincial (Provincial Health Insurance Fund for Workers)
PEP           Public Expenditure Program
PER           Public Expenditure Review
PMH           Provincial Ministry of Health
POF           Planta Organica Funcional (school class structure)
PRESSAL       Provincial Health Sector Reform Project
PRL           Provincial Reform Loan
PRODYMES   Secondary Education Decentralization Project
SESP          Secretaria de Estado de Salud Publica (San Juan, Secretariat of Public Health)
SIPROSA       Sistema Provincial de Salud (Tucuman, Provincial Health System)
SPS           Seguro Provincial de Salud (Provincial Health Insurance)
TOR           Terms of Reference
VAT           Value Added Tax
Vice President:                       Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:                     Ms. Myrna Alexander
Sector Director:                      Mr. Guillermo Perry
Task Manager:                         Ms. Maria E. Freire



ARGENTINA                    FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
SECOND PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Number
L  THE SETTING
Economic Context ......................................I
Provincial Setting .....................................2
I. PROVINCIAL REFORM PROGRAMS
Selection of Provinces .........................................4
Reforn Goals .........................................                                              S5
Public Finance .........................................6
Social Sectors .       ....... .............................................................................................. 11
Education ........                                                                                 11
Health ......... 14
Private Sector Development ..................................... 17
IIL THE PROPOSEID LOANS
Loan Objectives .........................................                                          18
Justification for Adjustment Lending ......................................... 18
Loans Description .........................................                                        19
Borrower and Loan Amount .........................................                                 20
Letters of Provincial Reform .........................................                             20
Conditions of Tranche Release ......................................... 21
Program Implementation ......................................... 23
Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing ......................................... 23
Lessons Learned from Previous Operations .......................................... 24
Experience with Adjustment Operations in Argentina .......................         .................. 24
Relation with Social Sector Operations ..........................    .......................................... 25
Technical Assistance Needs .....  ............ ........................................................................ 26
Monitoring Indicators .......................... ............ 26
Rationale for Bark Involvement .......................... 27
Environrnental Aspects .......................... 27
Participatory Approach .......................... 27
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions .............................                         28
Impact, Benefits and Risks .............................                                          28
This Report is based on ihe findings of appraisal mission composed of Maria E. Freire (mission leader),
Raul Benitez, William Experton, Vicente Paqueo, David Rosenblatt, that visited Argentina in April-May
1997. Other team members are: Richard Bird, Nicholas Burnett, Xavier Coll, Oscar Libonatti, Jose Pablo
Gomez-Maeza, Miguel Mercado-Diaz, Donald Winkler and David Vetter. The mission was assisted by
tearns from the Argentina's Ministries of Economy, Interior, Health, and Education. Especial
collaboration was provicled by Roberto Pagano, Fernando Galimberti and Oscar Bertea. During loan
preparation, the responsible Division Chief, Projects Adviser, and Departmnent Director in this operation
were, respectively, Paul Meo, Orville Grnmes and Gobind T. Nankani. The current CMU Director and,
Sector Director are, respectively, Myrna Alexander and Guillermo Perry.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page Number
IV. RECOMMENDATION .........................................     .                29
ANNEXES
A Fact Sheet for Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan and Tucuman .30
B Rio Negro, Letter of Provincial Reform.                                         31
C Rio Negro, Policy Matrix .41
D Salta, Letter of Provincial Reform .44
E Salta, Policy Matrix .55
F San Juan, Letter of Provincial Reform .57
G San Juan, Policy Matrix .69
H Tucuman, Letter of Provincial Reform .72
I Tucuman, Policy Matrix .83
J Status of Bank Group Operations                       .85
K Status of IFC Investments .86
L Argentina at a Glance .89
Map - IBRD No 26842



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOANS
RIO NEGRO, SALTA, SAN JUAN AND TUCUMAN
Loans Summary
Borrower:                 The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agencies:    Subsecretaria de Programaci6n Regional, Ministerio de Economia,
y 'Servicios y Obras Puiblicas and the Implementation Units in the
Ministry of Finance of the four beneficiary provinces
Beneficiaries:           Four Provincial Governments - Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan
and Tucuman
Poverty:                 The programs' health components have a specific goal to reach the
poor and provide basic health coverage to non-insured indigent
population
Amounts:                 US$75 million (Rio Negro); US$75 million (Salta); US$50 million
(San Juan); and US$100 million (Tucuman)
Terms:                   Each single currency loan in U.S. dollars, repaid in 15 years,
including five years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:         Identical to those contracted by the Argentine Republic with the
Bank
Schedule of Disbursements: (in US$ Million)
Rio Negro     Salta     San Juan    Tucuman
Disb.  Cum. Disb.  Cum.  Disb.  Cum. Disb.  Cum.
Bank FY98
2nd Quarter    25   25   45   45   10   10   55   55
4th Quarter    25   50    -    45   25   35    -    55
Bank FY99
3rd Quarter    25   75   30   75   15   50   45   100
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Loan Identification Nos.:  AIR-PE-51695 (Rio Negro); AR-PE-51693 ( Salta);
AR-PE- 51694 (San Juan); AR-PE - 6006 (Tucuman);
Map:                     IBRD No.26842






REPORT AND RLECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON FOUR PROPOSED
SECOND PROVINCLAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS IN THIE AMOUNTS OF
US$75 MILLION, US$75 MILLION
US$50 MILLION AND US$100 MILLION TO THIE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
TO SUPPORT THE ADIJUSTMENT PROGRAMS OF FOUR REFORMING
PROVINCES: RICI NEGRO, SALTA, SAN JUAN AND TUCUMAN
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on four
proposed loans to the Argentine Republic for US$75 million, US$75 million, US$50 million,
and US$100 million to support fiscal adjustment and structural reform in four reforming
provinces: Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan, and Tucuman. The loans would be variable rate
LIBOR-based Dollar loans, with a grace period of 5 years, a final maturity of 15 years and
level repayment of principal. The Argentine Republic would onlend the local currency
equivalent of each loan to the provinces on the same terms (an arrangement made possible by
the 1:1 peso:dollar exchange rate fixed by Argentine law).
I. THE SETTING
Economic Context
2.    In 1991 the Argentine government adopted an ambitious stabilization program aimed
at bringing down hyperinflation, disciplining public spending and creating the conditions for
economic stability and development. The Convertibility Plan has been remarkably successful.
Between 1991 and 1994, output growth averaged 7.7% per year, and the price level dropped
from the heights of hyperinflation to an annual inflation rate of 3.9% in 1994. In addition, the
consumption-led boom of the early years of stabilization matured into a pattern of investment
and export-led growth. Privatization of state assets was far-reaching, and more successful
than expected.
3.    The situation deteriorated sharply in 1995, due to the combination of the "Tequila
Effect" and the severity of the necessary adjustment effort. Reduced investors' confidence in
Argentina, together with higher international interest rates, contributed to net capital outflows
and consequent demonetization of the economy. This had negative economic and financial
implications; GDP fell 4.4% and unemployment soared to 18%.
4.    The government took prompt measures to control the crisis. On the one hand, it tried
to reduce the fiscal deficit by cutting expenditures and raising main tax rates. On the banking
system, measures were taken 1:o enhance liquidity and prevent further bank failures.
Moreover, with the support of the IMF, Bank and IDB, a package of US$1.1 billion was



2                                                                Argentina: PRL2
made available in support of the Convertibility Plan'. This backing helped to restore
confidence in the economy and the financial sector.
5.    By the end of 1995, the Argentine economy had recovered and is now well out of
recession. Economic growth reached 4.4% in 1996, and inflation (CPI) was practically nil.
Imports recovered in line with economic activity, but healthy export growth secured a trade
surplus for a second consecutive year. Access to international financial markets was restored.
In January 1997, the government issued a US$2 billion global bond with a record 20-year
maturity at a yield of about 11.5%. In February, for the first time Argentina issued
internationally a 10-year bond in pesos at a yield of 11.85%.
6.    The impetus of the structural reform occurred primarily at the federal level.
Privatization, deregulation, opening of the economy and stabilization took place under the
strong hold of the presidency and the national Cabinet. Provincial reforms followed at a much
slower and unequal pace. Decades of dependency on the center and hyperinflation destroyed
incentives for major reforms. The privatization of provincial assets began only two years after
the major national privatizations took place; provincial fiscal adjustment only materialized in
1996.
7.    On the fiscal side, progress has lagged. While the public sector deficit may have
improved from 3.5% of GDP in 1995 to 2.5% of GDP in 1996, the financial targets
negotiated with the IMF in 1996 were not attained at the federal level. The improvement at
the provincial level was mostly cyclical, reflecting the increase in transfers from the center
rather than a sustained effort to reduce expenditures and improve resource allocation.
Ensuring a sustained fiscal balance at the provincial level continues to be a major challenge for
the govermnent and for the success of the stability program.
8.    Prospects: In the absence of an external shock, the Argentine economy is expected to
grow at 5% in 1997 and 5.5% during the next five years, based on export growth and
investments. Dependency on foreign savings will decline as domestic savings grow with the
strengthening of the financial system and sustained confidence. Foreign debt as a share of
GDP may have peaked. Continued attention is given in the government reform program to
ensure prudence in public finance, labor market flexibility and strengthening the financial
sector. The ongoing provincial reform is part of this agenda. The program negotiated with the
IMF for 1997 seems to be on track, as the government met the targets for the first quarter of
the year.
The Provincial Setting
9.    Argentina's public sector is highly decentralized. The 24 jprovincial governments2 are
responsible for 45% of public sector expenditures, a share higher than in most Latin American
countries. In 1995, the Argentine provinces undertook 97% of basic education, 92% of health
A Bank Capitalization Trust Fund was created to handle the recapitalization/restructuring of distressed
private banks; another fund assisted the privatization of many provincial banks.
2Including the city of Buenos Aires, which is larger in population than most provinces.



Argentina: PRL2                                                                    3
and 84% of welfare outlays. On the revenue side, provinces collect 18% of the public sector
revenues. Their "own-source revenues" average 37% of provincial expenditures. The gap
between expenditures and revenues is filled by transfers and shared revenues, mostly block
grants. The central government is constitutionally responsible for monetary and foreign policy
but has little leverage on the way the provinces manage their finances, borrow, or deliver
public services. Matching grants are seldom used. Earmarked funds are transferred from the
nation to finance provincial welfhre and housing programs. Only recently has the federal
government requested counterpart funds from the provinces for these programs.
10.   Fiscal Perfonnance. Provincial fiscal performance has traditionally been poor. During
the 1980s, high inflation rates, lack of budgetary discipline, easy access to borrowing and
reliance on the central government for transfers and bailouts all contributed to persistent fiscal
deficits. The situation improved briefly in 1992 (due to the Convertibility Plan, associated
Tanzi effect, and a major national tax effort) but deteriorated sharply thereafter. The national
crisis of 1995 aggravated the critical situation of the provinces. Provincial revenues dropped
5% in real terms, provincial expenditures failed to adjust, and the provincial deficit reached a
record high of US$3.6 billion or 1.3% of GDP, about half of the consolidated public sector
deficit. Out of 24 provinces, ordy four had balanced fiscal accounts. Most of the others faced
important liquidity shortages, increased borrowing, and accumulated arrears. Some provinces
resorted to printing their own money.
Table 1: Provincial Fiscal Performance      11.   In 1996, the provincial fiscal
situation improved. Revenues recovered
D    (Bi*ion Peins, Cnn.t Pr)    "with economic activity, expenditures were
_ 1993   1994   1995  1996  curbed in response to increased fiscal
Current Expenditures   25.2   26.5   25.8  2515  discipline. On the one hand, the central
Current Savings    -0.8   -0.9   -1.7  -0.1  government increased its selectivity in
Transfers           1.7    1.9    2.2   2.2  bailing out bankrupt provinces, leading to
Capital Spending    3.5    4.1    4.2   4.0  severe social problems whenever public
Total Deficit       -2.2   -2.7   -3.6  -1.5   workers were not paid. On the other hand,
Amortization        1.0    1.1    1.7   3.7
Gross Financing     3.3   .3.9   -5.3  -52   the generation of Governors who won the
Gross Fin. °/n (flP   1.   3.9    5 1.9    1 7   1995 elections promising major reform
Constant Prices of 1995                       changes were now ready to move forward.
In the context of increased confidence, some
large provinces were successful in issuing debt abroad and refinancing their expensive
domestic debt. In June 1996, the province of Mendoza issued bonds in the US market -- 6
years at 10%. To keep their provincial clients, the domestic banks were eager to renegotiate
the terms of their provincial debts. The provinces were thus able to refinance some of the debt
and transform scrip3 and floating debt into contractual debt.
12.   StructuralReforms: During 1992 and 1993, the Federal Government had negotiated
two agreements with the provinces to promote structural econornic changes. The provinces
agreed to improve own-source mobilization, restructure provincial taxes and eliminate
3 During the debt crisis, some provinces resorted to paying-workers and suppliers with "bonds" which were
used as local money.



4                                                                     Argentina: PRL2
distortionary taxes, privatize public enterprises, including the provincial banks and utilities,
deregulate the provincial economy, and transfer the often poorly-run provincial pension funds
to the national system. In exchange, the federal government guairanteed a shared-revenue
floor to each province, sheltering them from any down swings in revenue. It also provided a
Transformation Fund which helped finance those reforms and provide technical assistance and
advisory services.
13.   Progress was achieved in many areas4. As of May 1997, 34 out of 82 provincial
public enterprises had been privatized; eighteen out of the 3 1 provincial and municipal banks
were fully privatized; and many others are currently being privatized. Many provincial utility
services are now run by the private sector. Many of the distortionary provincial taxes have
been removed, and eight provinces have transferred their pension funds to the national
government.
II. PROVINCIAL REFORM PROGRAMS
14.   In 1996, the federal govermment recognized the need for a second phase of provincial
reforms. These reforms would help provinces improve efficiency in public spending, reduce
the size of their central administrations, secure and maintain fiscalL balance, reduce debt stock
and debt service to manageable proportions, and enhance responsiveness, quality and equity in
the provision of social services. Several governors had requested Bank technical and financial
assistance to carry out such actions. During the Country Assistance Review in November
1996, the Argentine Government gave a high priority to Bank assistance for the reforrn of
selected provinces in the context of a structural adjustment operation. The Bank's report 5 on
the Argentine provincial finances provided the analytical framework for the operation.
15.   Selection of the provinces: As noted earlier, the Governmrent and the Bank jointly
agreed on the eligibility criteria and the focus of the program. The loans would be available to
provinces that: (i) have introduced significant structural reforms in terms of size of the
provincial government and privatization of major public enterprises; (ii) have accepted the
transfer of the provincial pension fuinds
Table 2: Provincial Selected Indices, 1995  to the national system; and (iii) have
Indices       Rio   Salta   San   Tucu-   demonstrated ability and political
Negro         Juan   man   commitment to further reforms.
Population (thousand)   557    950    561   1,211 omimn  o ute rfrs
GDP per capita (US$)  7,039  3,849  4,944  3,630
Per Capita Rev.     996    758    959    642    16.   On the basis of the above criteria
Per Capita Expend.    1,305   862   1,256   830    and taking inlo account legislative
Own Rev/Total Rev.    24.1   25.1   14.8   20.2   supr,teeroicsweslceda
Public Empl. per    53    44      64     45    support, three provinces were selected at
1,000 people                                    first -- Salta, Tucuman and San Juan.
The Bank assisted these reforms with several loans: Provincial Development Loans I and II and the
Provincial Reform Loan I have helped the federal govermnent to begin promoting provincial reforms.
The ongoing Provincial Bank Privatization Loan helped the provinces to privatize their banks and the
Provincial Pension Reform Loan supporting the transference of the Pension Funds to the federal
government.
s Argentina Provincial Finances Study - Issues in Fiscal Federalism, July 12, 1966, Report NoI5487-AR.



Argentina: PRL2                                                           5
They are poor NW provinces with percapita income ranging from $3,600 to $5,000, weli
below Argentina's average of US$8,120. After the identification mission, and in view of the
serious efforts made by Rio Negro to tackle an apparently intractable situation in terms of
debt and overstaffing, the Bank and the government agreed to include this province in the
group. Rio Negro is an oil-producing province with a per capita income of $7,000, and has
recently complied with all conditions of paragraph 15. Together, the four provinces account
for 6% of Argentina's GDP and 10% of the country's population.
17.   The provinces differ in resource base. Salta and Rio Negro are well endowed with
minerals and hydrocarbons. Tucuman, San Juan and Rio Negro have an important agro-
industrial sector oriented to the export of fresh fruits, sugar and citrus. All have attracted
substantial private investment in the last three years under the deregulation stimulus of the
new administrations. The ongoing reforms will work toward more efficient and competitive
economies. Under the leadership of these reform-minded Governors, the provinces have
demonstrated a strong commnitnnent to reform. The support of a favorable legislature will help
the speed of the reforms. The provinces also differ in political affiliations -- Salta and San
Juan's Governors are from the national governing party, while the Governors of Tucuman and
Rio Negro come from the opposition.
Reform Goals
18.   The provincial reform programs share both a successful experience in privatizing key
public enterprises as well as an objective of ensuring an efficient and responsive delivery of
remaining public social services within fiscally sound policies. While the nature of the
problems may vary across provinces, the pillars of their reform program are common. On the
fiscal andpublic finance front, the programs call for:
*  improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on
own-source revenues and increased accountability;
*  civil service reform including reduction of the wage bill and redundant personnel;
improved training a nd compensation; control to lower absenteeism and
overpayments; and
* rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government spending.
19.   On the social sector side, the emphasis is to increase the efficiency of the education
and health sectors, focusing oni demand and poverty reduction aspects, while promoting major
involvement of the private sector.
* Education reforms would ensure the extension of mandatory education (from six
to nine years, as mandated by the National Education law) and guarantee access to
the poor within current budget constraints. Priority actions include: (a)
increasing a very low student/teacher ratio and the participation of staff teaching
actively as a share of total staff, (b) reducing the disproportionate use of temporary
and substitute education personnel; (c) improving the incentives for quality
achievement; (d) increasing participation of the private sector; and (e) reducing
administrative costs.



6                                                                Araentina: PRL2
*  Health reforms would improve allocative and productive efficiency and equity in
the health sector. This would be done through separating the provision of hospital
services from their financing; promoting hospital autonomy; increasing cost
recovery; consolidating hospital facilities; shifting resources from hospital-based
services to primary health care facilities; reducing staff and reallocating resources
to non-personnel expenditures; improving targeting to the poor; and increasing
health insurance coverage (within the health budget constraints).
Public Finance
20.   Background: In 1995, the four provinces' current fiscal deficit ranged from 11% of
current revenues in Salta to 45% in Rio Negro. In all provinces the wage bill absorbed more
than 83% of the provincial net current revenues, and the debt stock/current revenue ratio was
above 78%. Capital expenditures were financed by earmarked transfers from the central
government and by commercial debt guaranteed with shared revenues. Payment arrears
accumulated, and the provinces resorted to the issue of post-dated checks and bank
overdrafts to pay off some arrears.
21.   The provinces' difficulties were attributable to three causes: (i) excessive personnel
costs, the result of generous expansion of employment and wages in the early 1990s6; (ii) a
stagnant tax base; and (iii) a huge stock of debt. To address these problems, the provinces
took important steps during 1996. On the structural side, the provincial banks and other
public utilities were privatized, and the provincial pension funds were transferred to the
National Government. At the fiscal level, improved tax collection (sometimes using a
controversial tax amnesty) increased real tax revenues in 1996 between 10% in Tucuman and
20% in San Juan. Moreover, current expenditures were cut, the wage bill was reduced and
some downsizing was initiated. Emergency laws were passed to allow flexibility in the
management of public sector employment.
22.   As result, the situation improved significantly. Salta had a positive current balance in
1996. Tucuman's and San Juan's situation improved from a current deficit of 27% and 53%
of current revenues respectively in 1995, to 14% and 4% in 1996. The stock of debt remains
high but it is expected to decline steadily, reaching 75% and 60%, respectively, of current
revenues in 1999.
23.   Rio Negro is the most difficult case. The adjustment in 1996 was largely insufficient
and the fiscal improvement was small. At the end of the year, Rio Negro's current deficit was
37% of current revenues, personnel costs absorbed 94% of the net current revenues, and the
debt stock/revenues ratio reached 146%. Under these circumstances, the commitment of the
new Governor to improving the provincial accounts in 1997 and reach a fiscal balance in 1998
has required serious cuts in the wage bill this year but the huge debt stock will decline at a
slower pace than in the other provinces. The present administration has also aggressively
6In 1995, public sector employees represented 15% of the labor force in Tucuman, 18% in San Juan, 14% in
Salta and 14% in Rio Negro. The National average was 9.5%.



Argentina: PRL2                                                            7
privatized a number of state-owned companies (bank, electricity company, water) and began a
fiscal adjustment that augurs well for its success.
24.   Fiscal Component The objectives adopted by the provinces for 1997-99 include a
sustained fiscal balance through improvements in tax administration and better spending. In
particular the provinces expect to reach: (a) a decline in their wage bill to a sustainable 65% of
net revenues by the end of the program; (b) a positive current balance beginning in 1997, with
the exception of Rio Negro which will attain current balance only in 1998; (c) increasing
current savings to enable the province to finance a higher share of public investment; and (d) a
declining debt stock both in absolute terms and as a share of revenues.
25.   Table 4 illustrates these objectives. Some provinces like Salta will need to adjust the
wage bill more, given a limited capacity to increase tax collection. In Salta, both vehicle and
property taxes have been decentralized to the municipalities and the province is committed to
gradually eliminate two distorticinary taxes -- the payroll and stamp taxes -- while reducing the
rate of the turnover tax. Rio Negro would not be able to reach a surplus in its fiscal accounts
during the first year of the program. The debt stock will remain above 100% of current
revenues, although with a significant improvement compared with the current situation.
26.   Improved Tax collection and Administration. Provincial taxes are equivalent to
only 1-2 percent of the provinces' GDP. The four provinces have eliminated a large part of
the distortionary taxes, as specilied in the Fiscal Pact and with the support of ongoing Bank
loans -- notably the Property Cadasters Subprojects, financed under PDPI and PDPII - have
improved, albeit slowly, their own taxing capacity. However, transfers from the center still
account for more than 80% of the four provinces' total revenues. Unfortunately, despite a
potential to increase tax revenues, the lack of incentives to do so has led to important
collection losses. In San Juan, 82% of the property tax is not paid on time, the value of the
property is outdated, and many urbanized areas are considered rural or vacant. In Tucuman
and Salta the problems are similar.
27.   To further improve tax revenues, the provinces plan to: (a) reform the tax
administration and judicial courts to recover pending fiscal debts; (b) restructure and revamp
their Revenue Departments ancl improve the flow of informnation, notably between Cadasters
(contributing to update property values) and Revenue Departments, auditors and collectors;
and (c) eliminate some distortionary taxes still prevailing in Tucuman and Salta.
28.   All four provinces have sound programs to improve tax collection and to monitor the
pace and benchmarks concerning the progress of tax administration, notably of property tax,
coercive collection of delinquent taxes, and engagement of the municipalities in the tax effort.
In the case of Salta, the program includes an important tax rate restructuring. The tax rate of
the important turnover tax (Ingresos Brutos) has been lowered from 3.5% to 3% and will be
lowered to 2.5% during the program to make the province more competitive for private
activities. The province also intends to gradually eliminate the stamp tax and the payroll tax.
Rio Negro and Salta have outsourced tax collection due to the difficulties they faced in
revamping the capacity of their Revenue Departments. Tucuman has outsourced the collection
of delinquent taxes. During 1997-99, the four provinces could increase their own-source



8                                                                 Argentina: PRL2
revenues substantially. Considering that Salta has decentralized the urban property tax and the
vehicle tax to the municipalities, this restructuring will have a direct negative impact in the
provincial revenue level. Salta expects to offset it in the medium run through better tax
collection and increased economic activity. Tucuman is advanced in terms of tax structure.
The payroll tax will be eliminated in 1998, and the structure of the property tax rates is
adequate. San Juan needs to improve its tax rate structure, especiially rural and urban property
taxes, which show a multitude of tax rates hindering efforts for irmproved collection. The first
step was done with the reform of the vehicle tax in 1997.
29.   Reduced Expenditures in Personnel and Civil Service Reform. A major factor in
the provinces' fiscal distress was expanded payrolls, due to both hiigher real wages and to
increased personnel. In 1995, personnel expenditures represented more than 80% of net
revenues in Salta and in Tucuman, 109% in Rio Negro, and 1230%a in San Juan. The average in
Argentina's provinces was 70%; in the best managed provinces it was under 60%. Controlling
personnel costs is vital to address their problems. As shown in Table 3, the requirements in
policy adjustment and personnel cuts based on
Table 3 Personnel Ratios, 1995       1995 budgets ranged from 29% in Tucuman to
Personnel!   Needed         43% in San Juan if personnel costs were to be
Net Revenues Reduction in    reduced to 60% of net current revenues.
(%)   Wage Bill (%)
Rio Negro    109        42.2           30.   While the targets were ambitious, they are
Salta        85 3       29.7           nevertheless realistic. These four provinces have
SaJan       123 0      43.3
Tucuman      84.5       29.0           been able to reduce the size of the public sector
Average Arg   700      16.0           through the privatization of public utilities and
public enterprises. In 1996 the first staff
reductions were in the central administrations. Salta closed several agencies and privatized
others (irrigation and architecture), offered early retirement and/or generous severance
payments. This resulted in a reduction of 8.5% of the wage bill. In Tucuman, public sector
employment was reduced by 4,500 workers (mainly through early retirement)'. In addition,
the provinces enacted emergency laws authorizing reduced benefits and severance of public
workers. The retirement benefits and the cost to the provinces have been reduced as the
provinces transferred their pension funds to the national government with the assistance of the
Bank's ongoing Provincial Pension Reform Loan. The transference had a major impact in the
rationalization of the pension system at the national level. Provincial pension funds were in
chronic deficits due to generous low retirement ages and high replacement rates.
31.   To sustain their fiscal condition and improve the efficiency of the public sector, the
provinces' programs include selected personnel retrenchment and -- whenever possible -- a
change in the wage scale to reward essential staff (in the case of Tucuman, the top 500 people
would have their wages increased at the end of the retrenchment process). Additional cuts in
average real salaries would hurt the public sector as it would make it impossible to attract
qualified personnel. In general, teacher's salaries in Argentina are low compared to
international standards. This has a negative effect on teachers' commitments and provides no
7Public employment fell from 52,590 in 1992 to 45,930 in 1996.



Argentina: PRL2                                                           9
incentive to increase productivity. It is also a source of conflict that ultimately reduces the
effective days of schooling.
32.   The reform of the civil service includes: downsizing (based mainly on early retirement,
privatization, outsourcing of peripheral services, and decline in temporary jobs),
recomposition of the wage differentials for high-ranking workers and overall assessment of the
structure and functions of the provincial administration. In addition to controlling the
provincial wage bill, civil service reform seeks to rationalize the structure of provincial
government, eliminate redundant administrative units, and restructure the staff and skill
composition of the civil service to better match each province's requirements.
33.   Within the envelope of personnel expenditures (65% of net current revenues) and a
well-defined structure and size for the public sector, each province will be able to manage
both downsizing and wage recomposition. During 1997-99, Salta plans to significantly
downsize its public workforce; so does Rio Negro and Tucuman. Alternatives are being
developed in conjunction with the labor unions and business community to provide incentives
for the ex-public sector employees to constitute small enterprises. In addition, efforts are
being deployed to audit wage payments and personnel records to find and eliminate payment
irregularities. Tucuman will also fully computerize the payroll; today most of the provincial
payroll is prepared manually. Similar efforts are planned in San Juan and Rio Negro.
34.   The impact of the program on provincial unemployment is likely to be limited. First,
the numbers of potential unemployed due to the reduction in the provincial civil service are
relatively small. The retrenchment program envisaged above represents less than 1% of the
total employment of the provinces. Second, three of the four provinces have unemployment
rates lower than the national average, and these values underestimate the size of the informal
economy and unregistered workers. In fact, labor shortages occur seasonally -- in Salta and
Rio Negro, Bolivian emigrants hLelp with the harvest -- and constantly in public works.
Moreover, the Argentine economy is in a recovery phase with reasonable expansion expected
to continue over the medium term. Third, most of the downsizing is done on voluntary terms
and with generous packages (average of US$5,000 in Tucuman to US$14,000 in San Juan) or
about 20 to 60 monthly minimum wages that can constitute a sizable capital to promote
private initiatives. In Salta, the firms established by former employees of privatized services
have prospered and are now ful].y competitive. Fourth, the government and the labor unions
have worked together to encourage the creation of small cooperatives using the compensation
money as initial capital (e.g., Rio Negro).
35.   The provinces are aware of the need to provide safety nets for the most severe cases
of poverty and unemployment; with the assistance of National programs (including Acci6n
Social and SIEMPRO) they hope to develop flexible and realistic instruments. Links with
ongoing Bank financed projects and national projects (e.g. Income Generation, Trabajar,
Partnership) will enable the provinces and the Bank to follow up on this issue in a consistent
fashion.



10                                                                                Argentina: PRL2
TABLE 4: RIO NEGRO, SALTA, SAN JUAN AND TUCUMAN
FISCAL INDICATORS - 1995-1999
Adjustment Scenario
1                  I1         Projected
1995      1996   1 1997        1998    1999
RIO          Own Taxes % Curent Rev                  21         25        23        25        25
NEGRO        Personnel as % Net Cur. Rev.           109         94        81        65        59
Cur. Balance as % Cur.Rev.             45        -37        -15        -2        6
Debt Service/ Cur. Rev (%)              36        32         37        41       36
Debt / Current Revenues (%)            130       146        149       137      132
Change in Tax Collection (% real)                18.7      -1.9      15.0       1.3
Change in Personnel Cost (% real)               -9.4       -6.2     -12.1      -3.0
Per Capita Debt (US$)                1,075      1,280      1394      1381      1295
Public Debt (tJS$ million)            599        724       800        800      766
Per Capita Taxes (US$)                 183       22'0      218        254      261
SALTA        Own Taxes % Current Rev                 16         17        16         16       16
Personnel as % Net Cur. Rev.            86        76         71        63       58
Cur. Balance as % Cur.Rev.            -11          1          6         7        9
Debt Service/ Cur. Rev (%)             20         41         25        27       17
Debt / Current Revenues %)_             78        80         75        66        59
Change in Tax Collection (% real)a/              12.8      -3.9       0.6       1.3
Change in Personnel Cost (% real)b/              -9.7      -7.7      -6.5    -11.3
Per Capita Debt (US$)                  526       561        534       496      467
Public Debt (US$ million)              500       541        522       493      471
PerCapitaTaxes(US$)                    105       120        117       119      122
SANJUAN   OwnTaxes%CurrentRev                        14         17        15         15       15
Personnel as % Net Cur. Rev.           123        76         68        67       60
Cur. Balance as % Cur.Rev.            -53         -4         2          2        9
Debt Service/ Cur. Rev (%)               ..       38         20        12        11
Debt/ Current Revenues (%)             116        84         65        56       47
Change in Tax Collection (% real)               20.4       16.2      -3.0       5.0
Change in Personnel Cost (% real) b/           -26.0        2.5        1.5     -2.3
Per Capita Debt (IJS$)                 850       710       683        640      539
Public Debt (US$ million)              382       40]        352       322      288
Per Capita Taxes (UJS$)                102       141        156       172      191
TUCUMAN   Own Taxes % Current Rev                    19        20'        22        24        24
Personnel as% Net Cur Rev.             83         79        68         61       57
Cur. Balance as % Cur.Rev.            -27        -14         4         11        14
Debt Service/ Cur. Rev (%)               9        38         50        28       20
Debt / Current Revenues (%)             94       114        101        87       73
Change in Tax Collection (% real)                10.7      26.7      12.5       3.7
Change in Personnel Cost (% real)b/              -2.6      -5.8     -10.7      -0.5
Per Capita Debt (US$)                  538       694       683        632      564
Public Debt (US$ million)             651        853        852       800      725
Per Capita Taxes (US$)                 109       122        156       178      187
a/ Decline in tax revenues reflect the elimination of distortionary taxes and lowering the rate of the turnover tax.
b/ Includes the impact of the decentralization of health services in public seclor payroll.



Arnentina: PRL2                                                           I1
36.   Rationalizing Public Expenditure. The provinces' expenditure policies aim at
reaching an overall surplus so as to reduce debt stocks to manageable levels while improving
the efficiency of public expenditure. In addition to controlling the wage bill, other key
expenditure policies will: (i) eliminate transfers to public enterprises, now mostly privatized;
(ii) negotiate the size of transfers to municipalities, taking into account the decentralization of
the tax base; and (iii) limit new capital expenditures only to priority investments. Capital
expenditures will increase in all provinces as the current surplus will be able to finance a
higher share of investments, with the remainder financed by earmarked transfers from the
Nation. The stock of debt will dlecline steadily (except in Rio Negro, where the decline will
begin only in 1999); investment expenditures will be reduced to the extent that the anticipated
financing sources do not materialize. In addition, the governments are committed to shelter
the social sectors from reductions in the budget.
37.   Fiscal and Debt Projections. The projected fiscal outlook for the four provinces
shows a steady improvement. Table 4 shows the projections based on the program of tax
improvements, personnel cuts, amd investment spending and conservative projections of
provincial GDP. Under this scenario, three of the four provinces would be able to reach a
sustained fiscal balance by 1999. Salta, San Juan and Tucuman are in a better situation than
Rio Negro due to stronger initial adjustments. The four provinces will likely be able to reduce
personnel costs to 60% of net current revenues by the end of the program. In Salta and San
Juan, the debt stock/current revenues ratio will fall to about 60% by 1999. In Rio Negro and
Tucuman, this objective is not 1easible due to the higher initial debt stock. Their debt
stock/current revenues ratio may fall to 75% in Tucuman and 120% in Rio Negro.
Social Sectors
38.   The long-term focus of the social sector components within the fiscal adjustment
process shows a need to improve: (a) efficiency within the public sector; (b) government
capacity to target public subsidies to the poor; and (c) goverrunent regulatory capacity of
private provision of social services.
(a) Education
39.   The issues encounterecl in the four provinces are similar. Personnel expenditures
dominate provincial education budgets, leaving little room to finance non-personnel inputs and
investment. The quality of education and performance indicators are both poor, while average
costs per student are high due to low student/teacher ratios and disproportionate use of
temporary and substitute educational personnel. Teachers often abuse the leave system and
their pay is unrelated to teaching quality or effective classroom hours.
40.   The challenge faced by these provinces is how to handle an expected increase in
educational demand -- due to demographic growth and extension of basic education (from 6
to 9 years) -- while improving internal efficiency, increasing completion rates and learning
achievement, and guaranteeing access to the poor within severe budget constraints.



12                                                                 Argrentina: PRL2
Table 5: Selected Indicators in Education, 1995
Rio Negro   Salta   San Juai  Tucuman  National
Average
Enrollment Rates (%)
Primary                 97.0     92.8      77.0      99.4     95.2
Secondawy               56.0     66.9      51.3      50.9     58.0
Primary Completion Rate (%)        63.0     71.0       72       78
Student cost (US$)
Primary                 907      527       1,078     816      820
Secondary                .        801      1,765     938      1,230
Student:teacherratio     15.1      15.4     15.1      14.3    17.5(94)
41.   Policy Reforms: The provinces will undertake reform programs in four areas: (a)
improving the management of human resources; (b) improving efficiency in primary and
secondary schools; (c) reducing public teacher training institutions and (d) reforming the
system of private sector incentives.
42.   Improving the management of human resources. Through consolidation of schools,
reform of the leave system, control of absenteeism, and downsizing of the central services,
the four provinces have the potential to generate significant savings which can be used to
finance non-personnel inputs and investment. Unnecessary staff associated with the
consolidation and elimination of small classes will be reduced, student/teacher ratios will
increase and unit costs will decline. Incentives for teaching productivity and efficiency -- now
non existent as teacher pay is based on years of service rather than quality of teaching -- will
improve.
43.   During the program period, the provinces are expected to (i) put in place a system to
control sick leave and absenteeism; (ii) outsource some of the general services in schools;
(iii) prepare towards a new Estatuto Docente -- a new regime for teaching personnel -- which
will allow for salary improvement based on productivity and efficiency; and (iv) gradually
increase the primary education student:teacher ratio to about 19:1.
44. Improve efficiency in primary and secondary schools. Poor administration has
resulted in a high dispersion of schools and varied class size, leading to excessive teaching
staff and associated administrative personnel. By consolidating schools and classes in basic
education and decentralizing the management of secondary schools, the provinces will obtain
important financial and efficiency gains. San Juan's and Rio Negro's pilot cases show that
financial decentralization has resulted in substantial savings and increased coverage.
45.   Private sector incentives. At present, private school subsidies are based on the
number of teachers rather than on student enrollments. Per studerLt subsidies vary among
provinces and within provinces (in Tucuman they range between US$300 and US$3,500),
and fail to provide incentives for private schools to increase enrollments, work at full capacity
and/or provide a quality education. The provinces will be adopting a new subsidy system,
formula-based focusing on the number of students rather than on the number of teachers, and
incorporating other components (poverty and quality) in the formula. This will allow the



Argentina: PRL2                                                                                    13
provinces, within original budget allocations (and using the same process of automatic
transfers), to extend subsidies to all private schools and encourage the development of private
schools, while improving the incentives for their enrollments, and directing target
compensatory funds to schools serving poor students.
TABLE 6: Education - Expected Results In Salta, Tucuman, Rio Negro, San Juan
Policy Actions   RIO NEGRO                  SALTA             SAN JUAN    TUCUMAN
Improving
Management of          Expected yearly     Expected yearly    Expected yearly     Expected yearly
Human Resources        savmgsI US$8.8    savmgs: US$11        savmgs $0.7         savings: US$10
Control absenteeism;   million           million             million .           million (4% of
change leave system,    Automatic wage                        Consolidation       wage bill)
increases stopped                      started m 1996.
Increasing Education   Increase to 25 the    Reorganize schools  Schools were re-    First reorganization
Efficiency             minimuri of         accordmg to        organized m 1996;  in urban schools
Primary Education     students mn class    students and load.   savings reached  leads to US$42
Savings US$0 8     Savings US$10       26% of the budget.  million savings,
million            million as          In 1997 and 1998,   (about 3,000
student/teacher    the potential      teachers)
ratio reaches 19:1   savings are $0 3
million
Decentralizing        Already started     Start with pilot   It will improve the   Pilot program to
secondary schools                        schools and US$20   quality of the      decentralize 30
M budget           schools and         secondary schools
improve repetition   (out of 142)
and dropout rates.   savings are
In 1996, 300 of    estimated at $22
"non-teaching"     million due to
teachers were      reduced teachmg
reduced            hours.
Restructuring          Out of 1:3 teacher    Reconversion of  Limit teacher       Interrupting
Teacher Training       training           teacher training    training institutes    enrollments,
institutions, 5 will  institutions for in-   to seven. Savings    implementing a
close. Enirollments  service training.  about 11% of      acreditation system
have been canceled  Savings estimated   budget.           to identify those
at US$4 5 mnillions.                   who will be
reconverted in line
with the demand.
Providing incentives   Formula funding     Change subsidy     Forrnula -funding    Formula based
to private sector      for a budlget of    system and make it  (for a budget of   funding would
US$ 11.2 million)    percapita for a   US$16 3 million)    allow financing
estimated savmgs    constant budget of   Average cost in  337 private schools
10% of 'US$1       US$13 million      US$700 per          instead of 137 (for a
nmillion.                              student            budget of US$38
I                  I._                  million).
46.    Restructuring public teacher training: In all four provinces, the number of teacher
training institutions is more than double the number needed; private institutions are able to
meet any demand for new teachers. At present, public teacher training institutions are not



14                                                                      Ar entina: PRL2
only producing graduates not needed by the educational system, they are constantly increasing
the pressure for teacher job security. However, the National Government is coordinating
reforms in this area for it fears that if the provinces close all the iinstitutes, there would be no
capacity to train teachers needed for to the three additional years of primary education
(EGBIII) and the polimodal. This explains the prudence assumed in this area by the four
provinces. While the strategy needs to be flexible, the objectives are common to the
provinces:(i) freeze enrollments in the public teacher training institutions beginning this year;
(ii) close half of them in Salta, restructure for retraining in Tucuman, close five out of 14 in
Rio Negro, and restructure five of them in San Juan; and (iii) oulsource teacher training with
private teacher training institutions and universities.
47.    Table 6 summarizes the results expected from the educatilonal reforms in the four
provinces. In 2-3 years, the reforms should be able to generate enough savings to finance
needed investment and non-personnel inputs. As a result of the reforms, more resources will
be available to finance non-personnel inputs, to motivate better teachers and to focus on
poverty areas where additional attention will be needed.
(b) Health
48.    There is large scope for improving the health status in the Argentine provinces in
general and in the Northwest provinces in particular. Infant and maternal mortality rates are
higher than the national mean and even higher than those in the Northeast of Brazil. Mortality
causes include long-standing public health diseases associated with underdevelopment and
poverty. Malnutrition and diarrhea remain among the principal causes of death of children 1-4
years old.
49.   Health delivery capacity is seriously eroded, both from a lack of financing and severe
management inefficiencies. The health system is predominantly hospital-based, and the
hospitals are primarily managed by the provincial governments. Most hospitals are old,
inadequately maintained, and have obsolete equipment. Internal inefficiencies are magnified by
the lack of accountability of hospital directors. As decision-making is highly centralized at the
level of the Provincial Ministry of Health, hospitals have limited authority to achieve
improvements in efficiency.
Table 7: Selected Heath Indicators 1995
Rio    Salta    San    Tucuiman  National
Negro           Juan              Average
Infant Mortality per 1,000     18.0    29.8    21.3     27.6      22.9
Maternal Mortality PER 1,000   8.0     9.2     7 8       5.9       4.6
Life Expectancy               67.7    68.9    71.1      71.0      71,9
Pop. With Health Isurance (%)  55.0    60 0    64.5     65.0      63 6
Obra Social Provmcial (%)     23.0    30.6    27.5       ..       n.a.
PerCapitaHealthExp(US$)        160     137     161       78        n.a
%Health in Budget (95)         11      13       12       14



Argentina: PRL2                                                                  15
50.   Issues. The major health challenges in the three Northwest provinces are similar.
Public hospitals are inefficient, vwith low occupancy rates (in Salta only 57%), low personnel
productivity and low quality of care. Hospital care dominates the budget of the sector. In
San Juan primary care represents only 3% of the health budget. Personnel costs absorb 90%
of the health budget, leaving little room for essential complementary inputs. The size and
salary of personnel are not under the control of the authorities, and there is no motivation to
budget and use resources efficiently.
51.   In addition, there is no targeting to the poor and no cost recovery. Public hospitals
provide services to non-insured people (around 40% of the population), recover no costs --
fees are only one half of one pex cent of total hospital spending -- but have no incentives to
focus on the poor. However, per capita current spending on public hospitals is more than the
average per capita contribution received by the provincial health insurance funds for workers
(Obras Social Provincial8). This suggests that providing health insurance coverage and
choice of public and private providers to the poor is not only financially feasible but will
improve efficiency. In addition, in all four provinces, the Obra Social Provincial (OSP)
needs to modernize its operations, particularly to develop and implement an information
system that would allow on-line control and authorization of billing charges for health services
and keep track of its membership9.
52.   Policy Reforms. All provinces share the same objectives: improve the efficiency of
their health systems and target 'the benefits to the poor within the constraints of fiscal
discipline. This implies a reduction of excessive personnel (in line with
decentralization/outsourcing and eventual privatization of services), increased cost-recovery,
a shift of some hospital staff to primary health care facilities, and a reform of the budgetary
process and information system.
53.   The strategy includes the progressive separation of the provision of health services
andpublic financing with (a) the establishment of autonomous hospitals; (b) strengthening
of the OSP (e.g., information system, payment system, regulatory framework); (c) extension
of health insurance coverage for the poor using money now allocated to public hospitals; (d)
shifting personnel expenditures to investment and (e) establishment of a transparent budget
process, giving managers and health authorities greater authority in the way resources are
allocated and making them more accountable for results.
54.   The basic objectives translate into:
a) Transformation of public hospitals into self-managed (or autonomous) hospitals,
(HPA, Hospitales Publicos Autogestionados) especially the most important ones,
financed by the sale of services to private and public insurance rather than by direct
budget lines from the Ministry of Health. Some provinces may in the future decide
8 Obras sociales are financed by contributions of employers and workers.
9 The government of Salta wants to change its payment system from fee-for-service to capitation to reduce cost,
while at the same time establishi tig an effective regulatory framework to protect its members.



16                                                                                Argentina: PRL2
to privatize some of the autonomous hospitals depending on their individual
strategies.
TABLE 8: HEALTH PROGRAM: FINAL OUTCOME
RIO NEGRO               SALTA                SAN.JUAN              TUCUMAN
Reform Sector
Structure        Make five important    Make 10 public         Creation of at least six   Creation of at least
*   Autonomous  public hospitals        hospitals autonomous    autonomous: hospitals   five autonomous
Hospitals    autonomous , financed   (HPA);                                      hospitals
by a new payment                             New payment system-
*   Change in    system and by selling    HPA financed by the  based on per capita and  Creation of Provincial
payment      the services to Obra   sale of health services   case mix           Health Fund to contract
system and    Social and or to private  to public and private                    services to autonomous
cost recovery  insurance.           insurance. Payment                           hospitals
based on per-capita and                      New payment system-
modulation system                            capitation and case-mix
Reduce           25% reduction in        2,800 (25%) public    Reduced personnel in    15% of staff is
Personnel        general and            health workers will    15% to reach 3,800    transferred to the
administrative staff;    transfer to the     people                private sector
516 people redundant   autonomous hospitals
because of outsourcing   under private sector
contracts; Improved
salary scale/ incentives;
outsource general
services.
Extend Health    Extend insurance to    The Provincial Health    Creation of Provincial   100% coverage through
Insurance to     include the resources of hisrance would       Health Fund to contract  a basic package
extend coverage   the OPS, and budget of  guarantee full health    services to autonomous  covering all those not
for the poor     the Ministry of Health   coverage at no       hospitals             covered by any health
to cover non-insured  additional cost        Creation of a Provincial  insurance.
poor population                              Health Insurance
Establish        Maintain health        Personnel costs       Maintain health        Maintain health
Transparent      spending at the level of  declining from 99% of   spending at the level of  spending and reduce
Budget Process   1996 budget in real    the health budget to   1996 budget in real   personnel cost to 80%
terms                 82%.                   terms                 of the sector
expenditures and to
70% of the health
ministry budget by the
end of the program
Role of the      Reorganize the Ministry of Health in each province to focus on newi role of regulation and policy
Ministry of      making rather than of financier and provider of health services
Health
b) Restructuring the Obra Social Provincial (OSP), with the establishment of a
Provincial Health Insurance integrating the resources of the OSP and the budget



Argentina: PRL2                                                             17
funds of the Ministry of Health, which will enable the coverage of non-insured poor
people.
c) Change the role of the Ministry of Health from provider of public health services to
regulator of those services provided by public and private entities.
d) Change the payment system (including cost recovery) which will be implemented
when the autonomous hospitals begin operating.
e) Monitoring indicators have been agreed with each province to ensure that changes in
the provision model are conducive to better quality service, oriented to priority areas,
and lead to greater accountability.
55.   Before the reforms take place, and especially before any hospital decentralization can
occur, urgent investments are required in selected hospitals to be changed into self-
management. In Salta, the needs include US$14 million to rehabilitate hospitals and US$1.25
niillion to finance technical assistance for the hospitals and the Ministry of Health. In
Tucuman, the demands are higher: US$ 34.5 million to rehabilitate hospitals, US$8.25 million
to create the Provincial Health Fund, and US$5 million in technical assistance to assist the
autonomous hospitals and the provincial health service (SIPROSA). Financing for these
programs will be available under the proposed loans, other operations such as Provincial
Development I and II and the Provincial Health Program (PRESSAL). In addition, the
proposed loans would ensure that the provincial multi-year budget includes sufficient
financing for these works.
Private Sector Development
56.   During preparation, IFC staffjoined the Bank missions to assess the status of private
sector development in the provinces and identify potential areas for direct IFC participation,
notably in energy, mining sector and agro-business. ' The results were encouraging. In Salta,
the private sector is fully supportive of the adjustment programs. The deregulation and
privatization of the regional economies have brought a new impetus to the local development
and the private sector is benefiting from economic stability and regional integration. In Salta,
mining, energy and agriculture are attracting foreign investment, and existing small enterprises
are looking for ways of restructuring.
57.   In Tucuman, representatives of the sugar, citrus and agro-industry as well as the
banking system were optimistic. The citrus producers expect to reach second place in global
lemon exports, despite the relatively high cost of Argentine labor. IFC is considering
financing some projects in the sector. The sugar sector is restructuring, trying to reduce costs
and be able to compete with Brazil in Mercosur. So far they have obtained good results, as
sugar cane yields have doubled in recent years.
10 The cooperation of the Bank and The IFC at the level of provincial development had its first expression with
the 1995 "Tucuman Initiative".



18                                                             Argentina: PRL2
58.   In San Juan, business rules and regulations, including those for new mining ventures,
seem clear and attractive for business. San Juan, along with Salta, participates in an ongoing
Bank mining project. The regulatory system is good. It is easy to open and close businesses
and to hire labor but expensive to fire (one month severance for leach year of service). Energy
prices are high ($. 11 per kW) but is not clear whether this represented a monopoly element or
high production and distribution costs. Given the specialization of San Juan in irrigated
products, a major issue is the price of water and the financing of irrigation infrastructure.
59.   In Rio Negro, businessmen believe that the provincial goviernment encourages private
sector growth. The serious fiscal imbalance in Rio Negro is a concern, but the government
has begun to reverse the trend. Businessmen are concerned over the existence of monopoly
elements in privatized industries. After the privatization of power, electricity rates remained
high. The situation changed after national government intervention, permitting power users to
purchase from power producers outside the region, and rates have fallen significantly. The
upcoming privatization of a major provincial port may result in monopoly pricing. Private
sector potential seems to be good. Production costs for selected fruits are low, and the
National Institute of Agrarian Technology got high marks for delivering good crops research
in the region. The PROSAP (IBRD and IDB financed) agricultural research program was
viewed favorably. PROSAP is also helping San Juan to review the system of irrigation and
water pricing.
ml. THE PROPOSED LOANS
60.   Loan Objectives. The objective of these loans is to help four Argentine provinces --
Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan, and Tucuman -- to reform and restructure their governments so
as to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services (notably social services)
within fiscally sound policies. During the 1996 Country Assistance Review the Argentine
Government gave high priority to Bank assistance for selected provinces. The Government
requested the assistance of the Bank not only to finance the adjustment cost of the provincial
programs but also to provide the technical assistance and analytical support for the provinces.
61.  Justification for Adjustment Lending. The proposed operation has been structured
as an adjustment loan to support fiscal adjustment mixed with structural reform in the social
sectors. The proposed loans are fully consistent with the CAS discussed in the Board on May
15, 1997. The fiscal justification for adjustment lending has been established in the Bank, as
discussed in the Board paper (R96-55) and approved on April 16, 1996. The basic argument
lies in the link between fiscal deficits and pressures on the current account of the balance of
payments. In Argentina, the link between fiscal balance and the balance of payments is more
critical than in other countries due to the strict rules of the currency board type arrangement
of the Convertibility Law. Persistent fiscal deficits with resulting pressures on the current
account of the Balance of Payments can place immediate pressures on the money supply and
the financial system. These pressures can reduce the credibility of the government's long run
ability to maintain the Convertibility Plan.



Argentina: PRL2                                                           19
62.   The provinces play a large role in the Argentine public sector, responsible for 40
percent of public expenditures, and in recent years, half of the consolidated public deficit.
Reducing the deficit at the provincial level is particularly complicated due to the provinces'
primary responsibility for the social sectors--education and health--which are critical to the
country's long term economic growth and poverty reduction. A few large provinces have
managed to keep their fiscal accounts in reasonable balance; however, social services are
provided poorly and inefficiently in almost all provinces, when compared to other countries of
similar level of income per capita. The proposed loan focuses on four diverse provinces with
the aim of promoting social sector delivery systems that would surpass other more
economically developed provinces, and still within the context of general fiscal balance. The
demonstration effect from successful program implementation would be significant.
63.   At the level of individual provinces, there is a need to finance the cost of their fscal
adjustment. The reform will have a short-run impact on the level of expenditures (tax reform,
retrenchment program, complennentary social investments, improved technical capacity to
manage key social sectors) calling for additional resource availability to ease the transition
process. Foreign borrowing to smooth the transitional cost is justified due to: (i) the
limitations on Government borrowing from the Central Bank due to the Convertibility Law;
(ii) the potential negative impact of crowding out of private investment from domestic
borrowing; and (iii) the capacity of the federal government to absorb this relatively small
amount of new external debt, although the funds will be onlent to the provinces.
64.   During loan preparation, the Bank visited the four provinces which met the eligibility
criteria (para. 15) and had the suLpport of the federal government. The Bank's work had the full
collaboration of the federal government. Staff from the Ministries of Interior, Economy,
Education, and Health participated in the preparatory work, ensuring not only that the
proposed policies were consistent with the national policies but also that the provinces can
count on the support of the federal government during the implementation of the reforns.
The federal government is also promoting reforms in other provinces.
65.   Each proposed loan is specifically designed to support the reform program of each
province, and the scope and the timetable of the program depends on the issues faced by each
province and the situation at the outset of the operation. For example, Salta is expected to
transform all large hospitals into autonomous entities, as the province is well advanced in
formulating its proposed public health reform The civil service reform are also province-
specific. Stronger efforts are expected in Rio Negro and Tucuman due to the size of both their
workforce and debt, and the effort required to reach a positive fiscal balance. The
collaborative effort used in Rio Negro is a very interesting case as it involves the labor unions
in the processing of outsourcing public administration services and in the constitution of small
cooperatives. The process in San Juan will be more time consuming, and no changes will take
place before Assembly elections in October 1997.
66.   Loans Description: The proposed loans would support the provinces as they
implement their reform prograims with a series of fiscal, administrative and social measures.
The central govermment would onlend to each province the counterpart funds equivalent to
the loan amounts which are proposed: US$75 million for Rio Negro (AR-PE-51694), US$75



20                                                              Argentina: PRL2
million for Salta (AR-PE-51693), US$50 million for San Juan (and AR-PE-51695), and
US$100 million to Tucuman (AR-PE-6006). Each loan would be disbursed to the central
govermnent, with immediate transfer of the local counterpart funds to the provinces according
Tranche Disbursement of Each Loan        to pre-agreed payment instructions
(US$ Million)                   approved by the Bank and under
onlending terms agreed with the Bank.
Tranche  Rio  Salta  San  Tucu
______  Negro  Juan  man          67.   Borrower and Loan Amount.
1st      25   45   10   55                The borrower of the four adjustment
2nd      25   30   25   45                 loans would be the Argentine Republic.
Total    25    7     15    -               The beneficiaries will be the provinces as
3rdal    75    75   15   -00              indicated above. The amounts were
determined as a function of the population
of the province, adjustment needs and depth of each program. Disbursements for each loan
would be conditioned on Board approval (effectiveness) and subsequent positive evaluations
of the compliance of provinces to loan conditionality. The attached Policy Matrices (Annexes
C, E, G, and I) contain the performance criteria agreed during appraisal on how to evaluate
the provinces' compliance with the conditionality. While the formal tranche-release actions
will be limited to key measures, the full program of each province is detailed in the draft
Letters of Provincial Reform (LPR).
68.   Tranche disbursement. Given the various stages of reform in each of the
participating provinces, both the loan and tranche releases have been unbundled. This will
provide strong incentives for the more advanced provinces, while not penalizing them for the
possible slower page of progress in less advanced provinces. The loans whose counterpart
funds will be onlent to Salta and Tucuman -- mentioned in the document as "Salta and
Tucuman Loans" for simplicity -- would disburse in two tranches, once the conditions for
tranche release are met. The first tranche disbursement would be released promptly after loan
effectiveness since actions required for disbursement will have been implemented prior to
Board presentation. The second tranche disbursements would be released in about 12-18
months, depending on the speed of the reform following a positive review of the second
tranche conditionality.
69.    The loans whose counterpart funds will be onlent to Rio Negro and San Juan (called
Rio Negro and San Juan loans for simplicity) would disburse in three tranches. These two
provinces are not able to immediately implement some reforms. Rio Negro's capacity is
afflicted by debt service, and it will not be able to balance accounts, or even have accrual data
before the end of 1997. As condition for Board presentation it has implemented the first part
of a well-prepared civil service reform program but most of the remaining actions will be
implemented before the end of the year, including presenting fisccd accounts on an accrual
basis and revised projections for the fiscal situation. San Juan is not ready to proceed with
major reform actions before Assembly elections scheduled for October 1997. This loan is thus
structured with a small first tranche, following effectiveness of the loan and two larger ones,
once the conditions are met.



Armentina: PRL2                                                             21
70.   Letters of Provincial Reform. The attached Letters of Provincial Reform (Annexes
B,D, F, and H) indicate the importance of the loans for the provinces, as well as the province's
commitment to take the necessary measures, including proposing legislation. The LPR also
indicates each province's intentions regarding (i) personnel cost reductions; (ii) tax
administration improvements; (iii) new investment and borrowing; (iv) overall fiscal outcomes;
and (v) change in the structure of finance and service delivery of the social services. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the content of the Letter of Provincial Reform as
well as the final objectives and benchmarks against which the program will be evaluated
(personnel as a ratio of net currenit revenues, current balance and debt stock as percentage of
current revenues), as well as the Public Expenditure Program, performance indicators, and
quantified conditionality.
71.   Conditions of Tranche IRelease. Successful implementation will be assessed by
reference to agreed performance benchmarks mentioned in the Policy Matrixes (Annexes
C,E,G, and I). The proposed key selected reforms/actions and performance benchmarks are
as follows:
72.   Public Expenditure Reviews (PER): The second tranches (and third in San Juan and
Rio Negro) will be subject to positive public expenditure reviews. Under the PER, the Bank
will assess the outcome of the province's effort to achieve fiscal restraint. The Bank will
assess whether or not: (i) the overall fiscal and debt targets have been reached; (ii) the
composition of expenditure in the social sectors, especially the ratio of wages to total
expenditure; (iii) the justification of new borrowing to refinance old debt or/and to finance
priority investment programs; and (iv) all large projects have sufficiently high economic
justification (an ERR above 10 percent).
73.   Public Finance. The proposed reforms include actions to reestablish provincial fiscal
balance, to increase tax collection, reduce current government expenditures, and reduce
provincial debt. The agreed performance benchmarks include:
*  Current balance! cutrent revenue ratio should be positive before the disbursement
of the last tranche; quarterly supervision reports will monitor progress.
*  Debt stock! current revenues ratio, the proposed actions are to reduce debt and
increase provincial revenue so that, prior to the last tranche disbursement, the ratio
will be no more than 65% in Salta and San Juan, and no more than 90% in
Tucuman. Rio Negro's benchmark was established at $815 million.
* Civil Service Reform. The proposed actions will reduce the size of the public
sector using province-specific programs. The first phase of the program defined by
the provinces in their LPR has been implemented. San Juan is the exception. For
political reasons, the first steps will be done after the legislative elections in
October. Prior to the last tranche disbursement, the retrenchment and reconversion
program will have been completed and the share of personnel costs in net current
revenues will have fallen to no more than 65%.



22                                                               Argentina: PRL2
* Actions in tax collection are mentioned in each LPR and will be monitored
indirectly by the fiscal performance indicators. In the case of San Juan, a reform of
the tax structure will have been implemented before disbursement of second
tranche.
74.   Education: Selected reforms include actions to allow for class consolidation, control
of absenteeism, reduction of overhead costs, reconversion of public teacher training
institutions; and new subsidies systems for the private schools. Benchmarks and indicators
include: reduction of non-essential personnel; improved student/teacher ratios; and a shift of
personnel expenditures towards investment and other non-personnel outlays. The specific
actions are as follows:
*  To diminish absenteeism, control of sick leave is beirng implemented, in most cases
with the outsourcing of medical verifications.
* To provide better incentives to teaching performance, provinces will reform its
wage structures. The new structure will be based on qualification and performance
rather than on age and years of teaching.
* To allow for savings in class consolidation, new plantas organico funcionales -
systems for class and school organization -- have been approved. The
student:teacher ratio in primary education will increase (in some cases) to 19:1
prior to second tranche; in all cases prior to disbursernent of the last tranche.
I During the program, the provinces will develop pilot programsfor secondary
education to test decentralized management practices and more flexible use of
infrastructure and teachers; system and allow for poor targeting and rewards to
performance. Actions will be prior to last tranche disbursement.
* To improve resource allocation, public teacher trainirng institutes will be closed or
reconverted (in lines with the LPRs), and savings useid to provide incentives for
teaching quality. Actions will be taken prior to disbursement of the last tranche.
* To promote further involvement of the private sector and avoid excessive costs in
this sector, the formulae to subsidize the private sector schools (now financing the
teachers) will be modified and based on a per-capita formula with proxies for
quality and poverty. A new formula-based system will be in place, prior to the
disbursement of the last tranche.
* The set of indicators to be used to monitor improved efficiency and performance
has been agreed with the Bank as reflected in each letter of provincial reform.
75.   In all cases, the provinces have implemented a health auditing system and sick leave
control, begun reformulating the teaching salary system, implemented some class
consolidations, begun some pilot decentralization in secondary eclucation and guaranteed their
budget allocation for the three years. This is particularly important in Rio Negro where
financial difficulties have pushed the Ministry of Finance to cut across-the-border, hitting both
wages and non-personnel inputs and hindering the implementation of investment projects.
76.   Health Reform: Selected reforms, described in para. 54, aim at separating provision
and financing of public health services and improving population coverage. The specific
actions are as follows:



Argentina: PRL2                                                           23
* For the creation of autonomous hospitals, the proposed actions include: (i)
selection of the hospitals to be transformed -- Salta will have at least 10
autonomous hospitals; Tucuman and Rio Negro, at least five; and San Juan will
have 7; and (ii) actual implementation of new management and payment system,
prior to last tranche disbursement. Except for San Juan, laws defining the new
regime of hospitals have been approved and the hospitals have been selected.
* Budgetary actions will guarantee that the budget available to the sector is at least
the same in constant prices as in 1996, prior to each tranche disbursement; that the
agreed percentages for personnel are achieved; that there is no legal impediment to
guarantee that all savings obtained will remain in the sector. Agreement has been
reached on the composition and level of expenditures.
* For increased insurance coverage, the actions are to have better identification of
beneficiaries (especially the poor), define the basic health package to be made
available and to have legally implemented the new system of provincial health
insurance (the name varies by province) prior to the last tranche release.
77.   Program Implementation. Supervision of the programs will be undertaken by an
Executing Unit located in each province's Ministry of Finance but reporting directly to the
Governor. In addition to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Production and Employment,
in charge of the reform of the public sector, and the Ministries of Education and Public Health
will also be involved. The Units will focus on the continuous monitoring of progress in the
reform program, the evaluation of compliance with performance benchmarks prior to tranche
disbursements, and the quarterly monitoring reports. At the National Level, the Ministry of
Economy will undertake regular supervision of the fiscal and debt components; the inputs will
be part of the quarterly monitoring. The Ministry of Interior (in charge of the implementation
of most Bank-financed provincial projects) will provide the coordination with ongoing
projects. The Closing Date would be December, 31, 1999, close to the end of the present
provincial administrations.
78.   Disbursement, Procurement, Auditing. Loan disbursements would be made under
simplified SAL/SECAL disbursements. Under the revised procedures, SAL/SECAL proceeds
will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program, including
compliance with stipulated tranche release conditions. Disbursements will not be linked to any
specific purchases; hence evidence will not be needed to support disbursements. However,
there will be a standard adjustment loan prohibition on using proceeds to cover expenditures
incurred in the borrower's currency; hence loan proceeds can be kept as country foreign
reserves or be used for imports (other than for standard excluded expenditures). Tranche
release review and program supervision will ensure that programs supported by these loans
are carried out as agreed.
79.   Once each loan becomes effective, the Borrower will open and maintain a
corresponding Deposit Account in Dollars in the Central Bank. Once the Bank is satisfied that
a particular province has fulfilled the conditions for tranche release, it will inform the National
Ministry of Economy. As funds for each tranche are released, the Borrower (Ministry of
Economy) will submit a simplified withdrawal application against which the Bank will disburse



24                                                            Argentina: PRL2
the corresponding loan proceeds into the Deposit account for the Borrower's use. As soon as
the funds are deposited into the Borrower's account there will be automatic transfer by the
borrower to the specific province of local counterpart funds in amounts equivalent to the
disbursed loan proceeds, all according to pre-agreed payment instructions approved by the
Bank and under onlending terms agreed with the Bank.
80.   Prior to each tranche release, and after the Bank has reviewed compliance of a
selected province, the Borrower will submit to the Bank a report on the provincial compliance
with the release conditions. Bank staff will confirm all provincial conditionality compliance
actions before tranche release. Each province will also submit to the Bank every three months,
a brief report on the implementation of the program, updated fiscal accounts, and revised
projections for the remaining of the period. Each Deposit Account may be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, if the Bank so requests. Copies of these audits
will be submitted to the Bank no later than four months after the date of the Bank's request for
such audits.
81.   Lessons Learned from Previous Operations. The Bank has extensive experience in
the reform of the public sector through structural and sector adjustment loans (SALS and
SECALs) and with subnational development projects in Brazil, Argentina, and other
countries. Key lessons may be summarized as follows. First, projects must focus on a few
significant reforms that are hard to reverse -- such as reforms passed via legislation -- and that
can be fully implemented during the mandate of an elected administration. Second, project
design and implementation arrangements must be flexible enough to achieve targeted reform
objectives. Third, as reform projects for subnational governments can have high supervision
costs, project implementation should seek to include as much private participation as possible
in areas such as auditing. Finally to ensure commitment in implementation, the provinces
should have a strong ownership of the program components. Thie proposed loans have been
designed taking into account these lessons. During preparation of the programs, the
provinces were required to fully undertake responsibility for several components, as the
Bank's role was one of more of assistance rather than of producing specific program plans.
82.   Experience with Adjustment Operations in Argentina. Argentina's record in
satisfying the conditions of Bank adjustment loans has been excellent during the past few
years. The Bank has extended US$2.6 billion in seven such operations since 1991 (not
including a free-standing FY93 Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan, Ln. 3556-AR), as
well as US$74.5 million in four complementary technical assistance projects. The three
completed adjustment operations -- Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL, Ln. 3394-AR), Public
Enterprise Reform (Ln. 3291-AR) and the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3558-AR) -
- met all major objectives in a timely manner. The Provincial Reform Loan (PRLI Ln. 3836-
AR), the Provincial Bank Privatization Loan (Ln. 3878-AR), the Bank Reform Loan (Ln.
3926-AR) and the Provincial Pension Reform Loan (Ln. 4116-AR) are still under
implementation, but none are delayed in tranche releases.
83.   Relations with ongoing provincial projects. The proposed loans have a direct link
with most of the ongoing Bank-financed provincial projects. Eirst, their main objective -- to
assist provincial governments attain creditworthiness in a sustained fashion -- is key if the



Argentina: PRL2                                                               25
provinces are to be able to benefit from the ongoing IDB and Bank projects, not only because
of the eligibility criteria but also by means of ensuring that enough counterpart funds are
available. Second, the proposed loan draws from the lessons gained with the First Provincial
Reform Loan. PRLI was an important instrument in the Bank assistance to the Argentine
provinces. It helped eight provinces speed the adjustment program in the midst of the Tequila
crisis, smoothing the drastic fiscal consequences of that crisis on the whole country.
Privatization, deregulation of the regional economy and improved management tools were
strongly pushed forward with PRL1 1.
84.   With the benefit of hindsight, the first Provincial Reform Loan may have suffered from
complex conditionality as the National government imposed additional conditions to the
eligible provinces. The conditions amounted sometimes to one hundred clauses, not all with
the same importance. Provinces, perceived that the process was not completely transparent,
and gave too much discretionary power to the Ministry of Interior in the disbursement of the
available funds. On the financial side, the central government on-lent to the provinces at five
years and 12% interest rate. The spread was intended to finance a revolving fund to support
additional provinces. Over time, these conditions ceased to be competitive. Based on these
facts, the proposed loans were conceived from the beginning as direct operations to the
provinces participating in PRL2 (although using the Ministry of Economy as Financial
intermediary), prepared by Proviincial Governments and supervised by the Bank directly. The
terms of the subsidiary loans would replicate exactly the terms of the loans contracted by the
National Government.
85.   Relations with other Social Sector Projects. In addition to the complementarity
described above, the links with the Bank and IDB-assisted social projects are naturally tighter.
In education, the action program supported by the proposed project PRL2 is in line with the
reform policy implemented by Ihe national government. In the selected provinces, the
proposed loan will help the education sector to face severe budget constraints, guaranteeing
the sustainability of investments, and the capacity to respond to the needs associated with the
implementation of the Education Law, which extends the mandatory education from six to
nine years. The technical assistance necessary to support various actions considered in the
eligible provinces will be financed by the institutional strengthening component of the IDB-
financed PRISE program. In the Province of Rio Negro similar actions will be financed by the
Bank-financed Decentralization and Improvement of Secondary Education Project
(PRODYMES I). PRODYMES I, through its national component, provides technical support
to the provinces to improve the management of the education sector.
PRLI was channeled through the National Government which onlent the funds with a generous spread. The
provinces of Misiones, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Chaco, Catamarca, San Juan and Santiago del Estero all
signed agreements with the fedleral government at the beginning of the program in 1995. Of the
provinces, Entre Rios, Corrienites, Misiones and Chaco were the first to adhere to the loan's reform
conditionality. When Chaco failed to implement the reforms specified in its subsidiary loan agreement,
the federal government did not release its second tranche. Later, in 1996, the provinces of Salta and
Tucuman signed subsidiary loam agreements with the federal government and raced ahead to implement
the reforms specified in the first tranches, as well as to comply with the conditionality of the second and
third tranches.



26                                                             Argentina: PRL2
86.   In health, the proposed loan complements other ongoing Bank loans to the health
sector, namely Social Protection, PRES SAL, PROMIN and Health Insurance Reform
Projects. First, while the Social Protection Project protects high priority federal social
expenditures, PRL2 will ensure that the overall level of provincial health expenditures is not
reduced during fiscal adjustment and that the maternal-child care programs of PROMIN
receive priority attention. Second, the proposed loan applies the concept of self-managed
hospitals in additional provinces, a key objective of PRESSAL (a pilot project) and, more
importantly, advances the aforementioned idea of tying its implementation to a broader health
finance reform agenda, without which the efficiency gains from self-managed hospitals would
be limited. In this regard, PRESSAL and PRL2 teams have been working closely together.
87.   Third, while the Health Insurance Reform Project is addressing efficiency and equity
issues pertaining to Obras Sociales Nacionales, PRL2 deals with similar issues confronting
the Obras Sociales Provinciales, and will help provincial governments develop a public health
insurance fund (within current budgetary constraints) to finance coverage of the currently
uninsured (mostly the poor). In short, the proposed loans integrate the various elements of
Bank-supported health reform initiates to modernize Argentina's health sector, improve its
efficiency and protect the poor. The relation between PRL2 and ongoing health programs will
be further deepened with the strengthening of provincial links with PRES SAL.
88.   In addition, the policy actions benefited from the in-dept]h ESW on social sectors
prepared in parallel of theses loans for the same provinces. The Provincial Finance Report
(Report No.15487), prepared July 1996, provided the basis for the initial dialogue on
provincial fiscal reform and for the discussion on major issues in the design of fiscal
federalism in Argentina. The report was shared with all governors and discussed in the
Senate. The policy reforms that have been prepared by the provinces were amply discussed in
that report, which provided a very useful introduction to the current work with the provinces.
89.   Technical Assistance Needs. The relatively fragile institutional capacity of the
provinces and the depth and complexity of the reform program call for sustained technical
assistance as a prerequisite for sustainability and success. As mentioned before, the assistance
to the education reform program will be provided by the IDB-financed PRISE and by the
Bank-financed PRODYMES. This will help the provinces to implement the technical studies
need to (i) adopt a new formula-based for private schools subsidies; (ii) class consolidation;
and (iii) design and follow up pilot cases of decentralization of secondary education. In
health, the Bank-financed PRESSAL will continue and intensify the assistance provided
during preparation of the program. Other needs to finance equipment, studies on labor
conversion, and assistance with fiscal policy will be financed by the on-going Provinces II,
managed by the Ministry of Interior. Proposed projects, such as P?RESSAL IIL would provide
continuing support and continuation to the reforms being promoted under these adjustment
loans.
90.   Monitoring Indicators. A set of monitoring indicators has been agreed with the
provinces to measure the impact of the program in improved quality of services. These
indicators, included in each letter of provincial reform, are mostly short-term since significant
improvement in social indicators will take more time than the loans contemplate. The



Argentina: PRL2                                                           27
conventional indicators or literacy rates, education performance, mortality rates and
malnutrition will continue to be collected and published by the beneficiary provinces.
91.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. Bank involvement in provincial reform is
motivated by the provinces' commitment to encourage development through their reform
program. The national government has asked for the Bank's assistance in developing,
implementing and supporting provincial reforms that promote improved public sector
efficiency and better delivery of social services. The provincial governments are proceeding
with the reform program under their own commitment. The proposed loans are fully in
agreement with the Bank's current Country Assistance Strategy discussed at the Board of
Executive Directors on May 15, 1997. The role of the Bank in helping the provincial
governments to improve performance is amply justified by the successful experience in prior
loans and the continuing needs of the provinces. However, the focus is shifted from the
umbrella approach to reform and sector investment operations to a province-specific
approach, which allows a deepening of the reform effort in selected provinces.
92.   Environmental Aspects. The provincial reform programs will not have adverse
environmental impacts. Each loan has been classified in the "B" environmental impact
category due to the possible effects that the decentralization of public hospitals may have in
handling hospital waste. Before negotiations, the provinces provided the Bank with a
summary evaluation of the existing facilities and institutional regulatory framework concerning
the disposal, transport and treatrnent of pathological waste. It is evident that much needs to
be done in terms of general framework and institutional strengthening, At negotiations, it was
agreed that each province would. undertake environmental audits (TORs, consultant, and
report would be satisfactory to the Bank), and that the consequent recommendations for
improvement would be included in the contracts of transference prior to the creation of the
autonomous hospitals The waste management practices within each of these hospitals will be
evaluated so as to assess the adequacy of the waste destruction equipment, transportation and
disposal practices of pathological wastes. In addition, the provinces are committed to prepare
legislation in line with the best practices and the national law that ensures proper management
of pathological wastes, proper design and operation of pathological waster destruction units,
and proper transportation and disposal of these wastes outside the hospitals. PRESSAL will
assist the provinces to implement this policy. The attached Letters of Provincial Reform are
explicit in the commitment of the Governors to implement these actions.
93.   Participatory Approaclh. The provinces included in the program have pursued a
highly transparent and participatory approach in proposing and seeking approval of their
reform programs. Most of the reforms have been subjected to parliamentary scrutiny. The
Governors have adopted a strong interactive approach with the public though television as
well as public hearings for the dliscussion of specific privatizations and concessions. In Salta,
the provincial government contracted with the University of Salta to carry out a series of
studies on tax issues, including coordination with the municipalities and the central
government. In Tucuman, the Fundaci6n Tucuman, a non-private sector organization
financed by the major firms of the province, is supporting the government's program,
developing specific analytical studies (notably in the area of public health and hospital
management), and has provided the forum for wide discussion on the program. In Rio Negro,
labor unions have participated in the restructuring of the public sector and are involved in the



28                                                               Armentina: PRL2
creation of cooperatives for redundant public sector workers whio leave the public sector with
a compensation package. Public sector workers are invited to contribute with ideas on how to
improve revenues of their operational units and promote cost recovery. In San Juan the
initiatives are less visible, which denotes the relatively less comfortable position of this
government after the 1996 drastic reduction in average wages. T'he discussion in the
Legislature has, however, been transparent and substantive.
94.   Coordination with Multilateral Institutions. The Banlk has worked closely with the
IMF in the design and supervision of adjustment operations in Argentina,- in formulating country
strategy, and in economic and sector work. The IMF shares our concern regarding the need to
help improve the provincial fiscal situation. Bank staff will coordinate with the IMF to make
sure the compatibility of this loan with the current and future programs with the IMF. The IDB
has cofinanced the PSRL, Provinces I and the Provincial Bank Privatization Loan. The
proposed operation would complement the IDB's provincial work since it is directly financing
the provinces of Buenos Aires and Mendoza. We also have had the full collaboration of the IFC,
which joined one of our preparatory missions.
Iupact, Benefits and Risks
95.   Social Impact. Argentine provinces are responsible for the provision of essential
public services such as health and education. The ability of many provinces to deliver these
services has been hampered by their critical fiscal situation and inefficient service delivery
systems. Drastic wage cuts (rather than retrenchments) have lowered the morale of many
public workers, while creating the conditions for social unrest. Lack of social services affect
the poor in the provinces disproportionately. By further extending structural reforms to the
provinces and helping them to reduce their fiscal deficits, while improving the focus and
efficiency of social services, these loans would help to position provincial governments to
more effectively develop their citizens' potential while paying more attractive salaries to a
smaller, more productive work force.
96.   Benefits. The main benefit of the loans would be improved and responsive public
sector management in four provinces and a demonstration effect to many other provinces.
Expected program benefits include: (a) a better fiscal performance; (b) enhanced quantity and
quality of education and health services targeted to the poor, consistent with the budgetary
constraints; and (c) encouraging similar reforms in other Argentine provinces.
97.   Risks. The main risk is the reversibility of some of the reforms in case of political
changes and/or eroded political commitment. During preparatory work, the Bank has
assessed the participating Governors' commitment to policies thaLt preempt these risks,
including the enactment of legislation that would ensure sustainability of the reforms. In
particular, to reduce personnel costs, the administrative reform relies on a program of
voluntary separations and or furloughs designed to avoid the flight of the best qualified staff.
Moreover, the provinces need sufficient funds to pay for their retrenchment programs to
ensure a smooth transition process with minimum social costs. Provinces have agreed to take
actions, inter alia, to;(i) justify new borrowings; (ii) impose limits on debt and debt service;
(iii) prepare a Budgetary Law requiring a balanced current budget; (iv) submit annually a



Argentina: PRL2                                                          29
public expenditure program reflecting agreed priorities; and (v) impose limits on budget ratios
such as personnel/total expenditures ratio for social sectors, and shares by budget programs.
IV. Recommendation
98.   I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington D.C.
July 30, 1997
Attachments
by Caio K. Koch-Weser



30                                                                     Argentina: PRL2
ANNEX A
FACT SHEET FOR SALTA, TUCUMAN, SAN JUAN AND RIO NEGRO
.~~ _                                    . =  .             -._ I
Politics and Geography                Rio       Salta    San Juan   Tucuman   Argentina
Negro           .
Governor                           Verani    Romero       Escobar  Bussi
Political Party                    Radical    Peronist    Peronist  Republica
n
Capital City                       Viedma    Salta       San Juan   Tucuman
Area of Province (KM2)              203,013    155,368    89,6551   22,524
Provincial Economy
GDP 1995 est. (US$ Millions)         3,918      3,664     2,722      4,391      273,004
GDP growth rate                      2.2%       4.0%      4.8%       4.3%        4.2%
GDP per capita (95$)                 7,039      3,849     4,944      3,630       7,893
Exports (US$ Million)               250(94)     181.0     67.2       239.6       24,560
Taxes Collected/Total Revenues (%)    21         16        14         19
Basic Social Data
Population Total (thousands), 1995   556.7      952.1     550.6      1209.7      34,587
Population Growth Rate                2.7        2.6       1.2        1.5         1.5
Population below poverty, NBI (%),91  23.0      36.8      27.1       26.6         19.3
Illiteracy Rate (%)                   5.6        6.7       4.3        5.0         3.7
Infant Mortality (deaths per 1,000), 95  18.0   29.8      24.2       27.6         22.9
Population without potable water      17.2      17.1       13.8       16.7      27.8 (91)
Province Creditworthiness ('96)
Total Provincial Debt (US$ millions)  1,310      561       404        804
DebtJGDP (%/o)                       33.4%      15%       14.8%      18.3%        30.3
Debt service (paid)/current rvenues  39%        42%       45%1o      42%
Current Account Deficit (USS M)      -182        -3        -18        -61
Total Surplus/Deficit                -169        -32       -62        -56
Total Revenue/GDP (°/O)               12.0      17.9       17.6       17.1
Inflexible ExpendituresI/Revenues (%/O)    110.2  84.3    83.0       84.02
Investment/Expenditures (%/o)         9.7       10.9      10.1        10.6
Transfers as % Total Revenues        72.2       73.2      79.8       75.6
World Bank Lending Summary
Participation in Provincial Projects13  4         5         5          5
12 Inflexible expenditures includes personnel costs, transfer to municipalities, debt service payments (interest
plus amortization)
13 Includes 12 projects: First Adjustment Loan, Provincial Development L II; Municipalities; Water Supply I
and II; Flood Rehabilitation; Privatization of Provincial Banks; Mining TAL; Pfov. Health; Second
Education I; Secondary Education II.



ANNEX B
RIO NEGRO
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM






Annex B: Rio Negro 31
Province of Rio Negro
LEI'TER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM
Translation
Viedma, June 26, 1997
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn
1.    This letter or Provincial Reform describes the main objectives of the reform program of the
Province of Rio Negro as well as the actions to be taken in the areas of public finance, education and
public health. To implement this reform, the Provincial government requests the financial and technical
assistance of the World Bank. Below are the details of the envisaged actions.
1. Background
2.    Rio Negro is an Argentina province endowed with economic resources and good development
potential. The provincial percapita income was about $7,200 in 1995, somewhat lower than
Argentina's average. The province is strategically positioned to take advantage of the substantial gas
deposits and agricultural potential but it needs an efficient provincial economy in order to compete
under an open trade framework
3.    In the last few years, the lack of adequate policies and a rapid growth of recurrent expenditures
led to a very critical situation in the provincial financial situation. In 1995, the provincial deficit
reached 45% of current revenues, the wage bill absorbed 109%; capital outlays were limited to those
financed by earmarked transfers from the national government. The debt stock reached $599 millions
at the end of 1995, or 130% of current revenues. More than half of the shared revenues was affected
to pay the debt.
2. Recent Development and Initial Adjustment
4.    To face the financial situation and improve the role of the public sector in the regional
economy, the provincial governmant took some important measures in 1996, such as
*  Privatization of public enterprises, including the provincial bank, the electricity utility
(ERSA) and provincial casinos.
*  Reduction of teachers' costs by cutting teaching hours and the Reconversion Law of the
State (Ley 2989)
*  Enactment of the Civil Service Law (Function Publica)
* Transference of the Plrovincial Pension Fund to the National government
*  Refinancing of 75% of the financial debt whose average maturity was extended to seven
years.
5.    As a result, the fiscal situation has improved. While the provincial accounts are very poor, the
cash situation improved substarLtially, going from a monthly deficit of $21.5 million (at the end of
1995) to $7.3 million at the beginning of 1997. The current deficit declined to 21% of current revenues
and the personnel costs fell to 109% of net current revenues. The debt stock reached $741 million at
the end of 1996, or 157% of the current revenues; the debt service absorbed, 39% of the current
revenues at the end of the year.



32 Annex B: Rio Negro
3. The Reform Program of the Province of Rio Negro
6.     The strategy of the Provincial Government is to reduce the role of the public sector in the
regional economy, promote participation of the private sector, restructure the provincial government
and ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services. For the period 1997-99, the reform
program includes the following components.
10.   On the fiscal and public finance front, the program calls for
* Improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on own-
source revenues;
* Civil service reform and reduction in personnel expenditure
* Rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government spending,
maintaining current spending levels as a floor for the social sectors.
8.    In the social sectors, the objective is to improve efficiency in the education and health sectors,
focusing on demand and poverty reduction aspects, while promoting major involvement of the private
sector.
e  Education reform will ensure the extension of mandatory education and implementation of
the "polimodal" as well as guarantee access to the poor within current budget constraints.
Priority actions include: (a) increasing the student/teacher ratio and the ratio of staff
actively teaching to total staff; (b) reduce the disproportionate use of temporary and
substitute education personnel; (c) improve incentives for quality achievement; (d) increase
participation of the private sector; and (e) reduce administrative costs.
* Health reforms will improve efficiency and equity in the health sector, notably by
separating the provision and financing of public health services, increasing cost recovery,
consolidating hospital facilities, reducing excessive staff and reallocating resources to non-
personnel expenditures, improving targeting to the poor and increasing health insurance
coverage (within the current health budget constraints).
3.1 Public Finance
9.    The provincial government is conmmitted to obtain a sustained fiscal balance by the end of
1998 and to abide by strict creditwortbiness rules. In particular, it intends to (a) obtain a current
surplus every year beginning in 1998; (b) reduce the personnel expenditures to 65% of net current
revenues, beginning in 1999; (c) assure fiscal surpluses large enough to reduce the debt stock to a
sustainable level while keeping investment levels an adequate level; and (d) maintain the debt service at
an adequate level even if this will be possible only after the debt stock is completely refinanced and
restructured.
10.   Table B (in Annex to this Letter) shows the results obtained with the planned improvement in
tax collection and further discipline in spending. Rio Negro will be able to improve its fiscal situation
but the debt burden will continue to be high, with debt service absorbing a large proportion of the
current revenues. The tax collection is estimated to grow 40% from 1995 to 1999. The capital
expenditures will continue limited, and financed by national resources. However, the government
expects to be able to maintain a stable policy of improvement in tax collection and decline in
expenditures.



Annex B: Rio Negro 33
(a) Improved Tax collection and Administration.
11.    The provincial tax revenues increased steadily during 1990-94, but in 1995 there was a sudden
decline as a result of the economic recession, and the changes introduced in the provincial tax rates in
line with the agreed Pacto Fiscal. In particular, the elimination of the turnover tax (Impuestos sobre
Ingresos Brutos) on the primary sector and a series of other activities, including tourism, constitutes an
important fiscal sacrifice, given the orientation of the province towards exports and it is not easy to
compensate these losses by an increase in the tax burden on the commercial or other services sectors.
12.    The provincial government is committed to a sustained effort to improve tax collection and
administration. A series of measures are beginning to be implemented to improve the processes of
collection, billing and auditing:
*  Development of the tax-payer current account for the vehicle tax.
*  Updating of the census of tax payers of the Ingresos Brutos
*  An auditing plan (with 26 auditors) and massive controls over the tax payers of the
Ingresos Brutos
* Outsourcing the auditing of the tax payers under the Convenio Multilateral de Ingresos
Brutos
*  Updating of the cadastral valuation with effect after January 1997
*  Massive collection of data on property lots and computation of the basic unit values for the
urban and rural property, allowing the revaluation integral of the property values and
enabling a substantial increase in the collection of the property tax after 1998.
*  Bidding to adjudicate: the collection of data by aero photography and of improvements
which completes the project of cadastre reform and establish the basis for an efficient
management of the cadaster and the property tax connected with it.
*  To eliminate tax evasion, preferential treatment will be eliminated
*  Inclusion of information technology and network between the central collection and the
territorial agencies
  Incentives for tax co'llectors as a function of collection targets, recovery of the debt and
productivity in the implementation of certain measures.
13.    These measures will enable tax revenues to increase to $126 million in 1997, $148 million in
1998 and $153 million in 1999.
b) Personnel Expenditures and Civil Service Reform.
14.    Personnel expenditures in Rio Negro represented 109% of net revenues in 1995. To help the
province's fiscal recovery, the government has implemented several measures which have led to a
reduction of 10% of the wage bill in 1996 and about 1500 positions.
15.    Despite these efforts, the fiscal situation of the province and the need to improve the quality of
public service justifies that the government will double the efforts in this area. During 1997-1998, the
government programn includes a deep restructuring of the provincial public sector based on the analysis
of the mission and function of the public sector in Rio Negro, the application of the Civil Service Law
(ley de Funci6n Ptibl;ca) and the transference of public employees to the private sector through
programs of privatization, outsourcing of peripheral services, early retirement, direct separation, and
attrition. This strategy aims at rninimizing the social cost of the restructuring process while abiding by
the government objectives. The strategy of promoting the creation of cooperatives with ex-public



34 Annex B: Rio Negro
employees who will offer services to the public sectors is one of the examples in which all the interested
ones, including the labor unions, have participated with interesting solutions.
16.   The provincial government intends to begin a Program of Outsourcing of Services whereby
services will be carried out by public employees who decide to quit the public sector and to this new
function. Potential areas include (i) maintenance and cleaning; public works, official gazette,
professional services and some areas of the IPPV (roads) and IDEVI (housing). In addition, a
penmanent program of outsourcing will be initiated to the private initiaLted of public employees.
17.   In addition, the government will strengthen the Early Retirement Program so that the public
employees who wish to retire could use it
18.   A program of Direct and Voluntary Separation is also planned to allow public employees who
so which to quit the public sector and have access to compensation which will provide the capacity to
begin their own private activity or help while looking for another job.
19.   In addition, the application of the Public Service Law, enacted at the end of 1996, will allow
the downsizing of the structure of the public sector to conform with the functions which were defined
and selected as the ones to be the responsibility of the government. The Program of Civil Service
Reform (Reconversion Laboral) will be an instrument which will offfer training to public employees
while guaranteeing re-entry during two years.
20.   Training will be made available to workers who stay as well as those entering the private
sector.
21.   This program  of restructuring of personnel will lead to a new system  of personnel
administration and a new wage scale and regimen of public employment for which it is crucial to
provide technical assistance.
(c) Rationalizing Public Expenditure
22.   In parallel with reduction of personnel expenditures and improvement of tax collection, the
govenmment will continue the policy of not subsidizing public enterprises (now mostly privatized) and
will ensure that public spending will be oriented to priority sectors having in line strict criteria of
economic and financial justification.
23.    Capital expenditures will increase from $81 million (9% of total expenditures) in 1996 to $90
million in 1999, but they will be financed almost exclusively by earmarked transfers from the center.
The planned level of investment expenditures would be reduced to the extent that the anticipated
financing sources do not materialize.
24.   The stock of debt will not go above $815 million. Since the effect of the reforms will have a
budgetary impact only after 1998 and the interest service is very large, the debt stock will begin
declining only after 1999. Beginning in 1998, any new debt will be contracted exclusively to refinance
the old debt, to pay amortization, and finance projects of well justified profitability.
25.   The Three year Public Expenditure Plan that the government will prepare during the present
year reflects the priorities of the governnent, e.g. social sectors, poverty alleviation, including
education, health, potable water and environment.  All investment projects will have adequate
justification, with an ERR of at least 10%.



Annex B: Rio Negro 35
26.    To ensure the continuity of the process of transparency and budgetary accountability, the
government will propose and pass in the Legislature a law of financial discipline based on four
principles of financing management: (i) balanced annual budgets with current surplus -- no borrowing
will be permitted to finance currenit expenditures; (ii) annual external auditing by independent auditors;
(iii) limits in the personal costs below 65% of net current revenues; (v) public works will be procured
in line with the new law of procurement of the province, as it will encourage increased participation of
the private sector.
3.2 Educacion
27.   Education in the province of Rio Negro has a relatively good performance level. The coverage
is almost universal at the primary level (96%) and reached 56% at the secondary level. The province is
ranked third place in terms of quality. In terms of educational efficiency, the teacher:student ratio is
15:1.
28.   The province faces several challenges. First, the fiscal situation has obliged the sector to
suffer from important and unplanned budgetary cuts. The government is committed to preserve the
share of education in the budget of the 1997-99 period to 22% of the total (excluding debt service).
Second, educational demand is expected to growth significantly due to demographic growth (2% per
year) and extension in compulsorv education from 6 to 10 years. Third, there is a need to improve the
education quality in the context of the change of curriculum.
29.   Investment in education in the Province in 1997 is financed almost totally with national and
international funds (Plan Social Educativo, $2.5 million; Pacto Federal $6 million; PRISE and
PRODYMES, $7 million).
30.   In 1996, the education sector suffered a new adjustment. The budget was cut $23 million or
12% through (i) cut of positions in the central administration (51 workers), (ii) elimination of 1,000
hours of teaching at the level oF higher education; (iii) consolidation in agro-livestock school; (iv)
elimination of the service of labor training; (v) re-ordering of the schools in the secondary level; (vi)
reallocation of 217 teacher-secretaries to teaching.
31.   The govermment intends to deepen the process of transformation in the education sector which
will generate savings to finance a better wage level, maintaining the budget at the level established in
the Budget law of 1997, and generate the capacity for the province to finance some investment in the
order of $8.4 million within 2 years, equivalent to 5% of the budget (15% including goods and
services).
32.   The government prograrn unfolds into five components which will generate to the province a
potential capacity of investment while lowering the share of personnel costs to 85% of the educational
budget. The objectives of the five programs are the following (i) improving the administration of the
education sector; (ii) improving the efficiency of the sector; (iii) promote decentralization of the sector;
(iv) extend incentives to the private sector and (v) restructure the teacher training Institutes.
a) Improving the sector administration. The reduction in the personnel costs will take
place through: (i) early retirement to allow the reduction in the average number of years in
service, and the reduction of 100 positions (28% of the central administration staff)
through voluntary early retirees which will generate savings about $6.2 million) (ii)
implementation of a system to control absenteeism and reform the leave system ($2.3



36 Annex B: Rio Negro
million savings); (iii) implement a program to control sick leave ($3 million savings); (iv)
outsourcing of general services -- transference of 2,162 porters to cooperatives (savings of
$4 million); and (v) the necessary procedures to implement a new teacher regimen
(Estatuto docente) with a system of incentives to promote quality and to replace the system
of automatic increases which was frozen in January 1997.
b) Improving educational efficiency. The provincial government will promote a better
utilization of primary schools and part of the secondary schools. The CPE (Provincial
Educational Council) established in February 1997 that the minimal number of students
per section is 25. In primary education the student:teacher ratio will increase from 15.6 to
17, leading to savings of about $1.2 million, and to 19:1 by the end of the program. In
secondary education, there is a large dispersion of costs per student (from 1 to 5) -- it
varies from $416 per student to $1,924 with an average of $907) which shows the
inefficiency in some schools. The re-ordering of the planta will allow savings of about
5,600 hours representing 10% of the personnel cost, or $2 million.
c) Decentralization of school management. The government will prepare before the end of
the year a management model for the decentralized schools. Some pilot cases will be
implemented.
d) To improve the allocation of resources to the public schools with private management.
In general the 49 public schools with private management have cost per student 10%
higher than the public schools managed directly by the CP'E. Moreover, the allocation is
not fair and is inefficient. The cost per student in primary education varies from 1 to 5
($312 to $1,313) and from 1 to 2 ($858 to $1560) in secondary schools. The current
subsidies ($11.2 million) will be replaced by a new formula-based system integrating the
cost per student.
e) The 13 teacher training institutes have an excessive capacity in comparison with the
needs of the sector. The growth of enrollments (2% per year) generates about 120 teachers
a year while the training institutes graded five times more teachers (at the current
efficiency level). In addition, the average cost per student is $1,589 and the cost of a
graduate is $10,000, which is too high. The government has frozen new enrollments in five
institutions and changed the planta funcional. These institutes will close in June 1998.
The government will study a plan to reconvert the remaining 8 institutes into 2 or 3 of
higher training and to produce around 20% of the output currently produced
33.   Monitoring system. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services rendered
to the community, the government of Rio Negro will use a system of indicators discussed with the Bank
(Table B4 in Annex). These include the way how the reform unfolds and the long-run impact in the
education quality and school coverage.
3.3 Health
34.   The provincial government is committed to imnproving public health services while maintaining
the objectives of adjustnent, associating the increase in spending with the improvement in coverage and
quality of services and targeting subsidies to the poor population without health insurance. This
program requires the maintenance of a health budget at an adequate leve]l which would not be less than
10% of the total provincial budget. The policy instruments to be used in this process include (a)
adjustmnent in staff size, following any downsizing with a new system of incentives to reward



Annex B: Rio Negro 37
perfonnance; (b) structural reforms and management in the sector. All of this would contribute to
improve the quality of the services, improve the position of the public sector as a supplier of services,
on the basis of payment models associated with greater production; and make the subsidy extended to
those services or activities considered public goods more transparent.
35.   This policy will include chamges in the following areas
a) Public Sector Providers: to promote a more efficient production of health services the
government will deepen the transformation of public hospitals into decentralized hospitals
which, per Law 2,570, is defined by the local administration of human resources and
financing associated with the volume and quality of services offered.
b) Financing: the restructuring and strengthening of IPROSS and the creation of a Provincial
Health Insurance will ensure the financing and targeting of services to the poor,
consolidation of hospital sales which will allow more efficiency and equity while
consolidating the capacity of adaptation of the Provincial Obras Social in the face of larger
competition which will have in the Segundad Social with the deregulation of the
affiliation;
c) in the Consejo Provincial de Salud the role of regulator will be reinforced through
formulating policies anid the exercising responsibility in the control and auditing of
measures that reduce its functions of direct management of provision and financing.
36.   As a tool of budgetary policy, the provincial government will produce a budget for public
health which will contain all expenditures in the sector, especially those investments in the sector which
are included in the budget of public works.
37.   The outcomes of the reform will be the following ones:
a) Establishment of at least five Autonomous Hospitals, financed by new payment systems
and by the sale of services to the Obras Sociales or private insurance
b) Strengthening and elimination of IPROSS' debts with third parties
c) Design of the Provincial Health Insurance financed by public resources which will cover
the population with formal insurance, especially the poor
d) restructuring of the CPSP
38.   As a result of the above rmeasures, the following results will be reached at the end of the
program
a) Downsizing of the health public sector by outsourcing services or other means,
b) Substantial advance in the administration and financial transformation of the Decentralized
Hospitals
c) Increased capacity of cost recovery through better billing systems and management of the
payment of the Obras Sociales Nacionales, Provinciales and Private Insurance
d) Reduction of up to 25% of the personnel of IPROSS to reduce administrative costs at most
12% of total costs
e) Use savings to pay incentives to people in the decentralized hospitals, goods and services
and investment



38 Annex B: Rio Negro
f) Change in the health payment system with new payments to the providers, which will
increase efficiency and transparency
g) Strategy for strengthening the Public Health Network
h) A Strategic Plan to strengthen the Network of Public and F'rivate Health Services
Providers
39.   Monitoring system. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services rendered
to the community, the government of Rio Negro will use a system of indicators discussed with the Bank
(Table B5 in Annex).
4. Impact of the Reform Program in Environment
40.   Given the nature of the reforn program, its implementation should have no negative impact on
the environment. To this end, the province will undertake environmrental audits for the hospitals
included in para. 37, financed by the technical assistance of PRESSAI, and before the transformation
of the Autonomous Public Hospitals. The terms of reference, the proposed consultant, and his/her
report will need to be satisfactory to the Bank. The recommendations will be included in the contracts
of transference and the constitution of the Autonomous Public Hospitals. The government is fully
committed with environment protection and is obliged to review and revise the legal and institutional
framework -- which includes the government agency in charge of the environmental control - of the
management of the hospital and pathological waste. The government is committed to implement the
improvements in the legal and institutional framework which will be needed, in agreement with the
normal rules and standards, accepted in the Argentine Republic, to ensure the adequate collection,
transport, treatment and final deposit of pathological wastes.
5. Justification for the request of World Bank Assistance
41.   Three reasons justify the importance our provincial government gives to the support of the
World Bank. First, I would like to mention the importance of the financial support which will allow the
financing of the adjustment costs and priority outlays. Second, I would mention the technical and
professional support receive form your staff. Third, the fact that the bank is supporting our reform
program gives us confidence in the quality of our own program, and will help us attract private
investors from Argentina and other countries.
6. Letter of Provincial Reform of Rio Negro
42.   In line with the above, the Provincial Government agrees that the National Government should
include, in the Loan Agreement to be signed with the World Bank, one Annex with the details on the
objectives considered in the Provincial Development Letter and referred to in the Policy Matrix
attached.
Sincerely,
Dr. Pablo Verani



Annex B: Rio Negro 39
Table Bi: RiD Negro, Fiscal Indicators  - 1995-1999
Million Pesos
Projected
1995     1996     1997    1998      1999
Current Revenues                461      497       535     587      625
of which own-source revenues    133      154       158     182      189
Current Expenditures            667      680       616     597      592
Personnel Expenditures          437      406       381     335      325
Public Savings                  -206     -183     -81      -5       +34
Overall Deficit                -235    -170(a)    -76      +0       +34
Debt (Million)                           724       800     800      766
Indicators
Personnel as % Cur Net. Rev     109       94       81      65        59
Public Savings as % Revenues    -45       -37      -15     -2        6
Debt Service as % Curr.R,zv.     36       32       37      41        36
Debt Stock as % Revenues                 146       149     137      122
(a) Does not include the $89 millions received from the pzivatization of the Energy company
Table B2: Rio Negro: Education Expenditure
(Million Pesos)
1995    1996    1997       1998     1999
Education Expenditures iProv.)      223.8   181.6   168.5    168.5    168.5
Personnel                          186.4   158.5   149.5    142.8    143.8
Goods and Services                  6.7      9.6      6.5      8.0      8.0
Investments (with own funds)        0,2
Teacher training                                               2
Fund for School Decentralization                              -0,5       1
PRODYMES (Counterpart)                                1        3,5       4
Investment with Transferred Funds            0,4     32,6      33       34
Transfer to Private Sector           15,7    13,1      11,5     11,7     11,7
Students (Thousand)                                   163,5    166,8    170,1
Cost per student (public sector)                       960      910      892
In Percentage of Total Expenditures
Personnel                           89,5    94,1      95,2     91,1     91,7
Capital finance by the province     0        0       0.6       3.6      3.0
% of Total Public Expemditure        29       24      24        25       25
Table B3: Rio Negro: Health Expenditure
eon Pesos)
1995     1996    1997      1998     1999
Health Expenditures                                120.3    115.6    115.1
Provincial Health Council         74       73      70.6)     74       74
Current Expenditures                              68.5      65       67
Capital Expenditures              1,1     0,6      2.2      9.0      7.0
Obra Social Provincial            51       43       39       40       40
Secret. Public Works (Investnent)                  7.7      43       43
From Provinces E1                                   2.9      1.71
% Total Public Expend             11       10       10       11       11
(*) Corresponds to the budget execution of the CPSP and the expenditures in health
financed by the secretariat of public works of the Ministry of Finance.)



40 Annex B: Rio Negro
Table B4: EDUCATION: MONITORING INDICATORS
Program/Objective                    Quantitative Indicators        Financial Ibpact
*   Improve Administration of Sector
*  Reduction of Wage bill.             Early Retirement of 655 workers (partially   Wage bill is 85% of
replaced).                            the education
budget.
Reduction of 100 people in the central  6.2 million
administration.
Reforming system of Leave          Average leave days per staff           2.3 million
Control sick leave                 Reduction of percentage of substitute  3 million
teachers to 10%
*   General services                   Outsourcing: transference of 2,162 porters to 4 million
the system of cooperatives..
*  Incentives to Teachers              Draft law of the Teacher Law (Estatuto
Docente) y Fondo Estimulo.
Increase of Educational Efficiency
Reforn and re-arrangement of planta    Increase in the studentteacher ratio to 17:1   1.2 million (2% of
funcional                              in primary education.                  wage bill in primary
education)
Reduction of 56,355 teaching hours and 33   2.0 million (100/% of
pdirector ositions.                   wage bill
Decentralize Educational Schools: Pilot    Percentage of budget assigned to the schools.
program for new management model.
Incentives for Development of Private  Percentage of schools with per-student based
Sector: New Formula to Finance the Private  formula
Sector                                                 _
Reconversion of Teacher Training       13% of total teaching hours .          0.6 million.
Institutes
Freezing enrollment and change planta
funcional and curriculum n_                                       -
Table B.5: HEALTH: MONITORING INDICATORS
Process Indicators                                Results bidicators
1. Self-Management:                     1. Targeting the subsidies
*  % participation of autonomous hospitals *   % Population without coverage covered by the Health Secretary
in consultations and total expenditures    *   % subsides oriented to the pooI ()
*  Revenues collected from the OSP and the
OSN as % of total expenditures
2. Payment System:                      2. Service quality:
*  % de participation of payments by the *  Average waiting time between recommendation and actual surgery
new   system   (contracts)  in  total    in the autonomous hospitals
expenditures                        *   other average waiting time (entry in hospital to surgery) in
Hospital Autonomous.
*   Rate of infections inter-hospital in HA
*  Mortality rate inter-hospital in ]HPA
3. Human Resources                      3. Efficiency of Health Secretary
*  % personnel of total expenditures    *  Percentage of bed occupation
*   % personnel of services and maintenance *  Average days of hospital stay
which chooses outsourcing           *   % spent in personnel of total expenditures
*   expenditures/personnel
*   office visits/personnel
() It is possible to compute this indicator on the services rendered to patients in a samnple of hospitals in two points in
time (1997 and 1999).



ANNEX C
RIO NEGRO
POLICY MATRIX






Annex C: Rio Negro 41
ANNEX C
Rio Negro: Policy Matrix
Activity                  Accomplished               Second Tranche               Third Tranche
General Condition    Legal opinion coniilning the
constitutionality of the reforms
included in the program and
conditions of tranche
disbursement
PUBLIC FINANCE
Fiscal Balance     Agreement on targets for the                              Current account six month
program                                                  surplus of at least $7.5
million equivalent
Cut in Personnel   Agreement on the Personnel   Commence implementation of   Personnel Cost equal to no
Cost and Conversion  and Civil Service Reform   Law 3052 (new personnel and   more than 65% of net current
of Public          Law of Civil Service (Law    administration regime).     revenues
Employment          3052) approved,                                          Implementation of new wage
scales in line with article 21
of Law 3052
Conversion of public  Agreement on program of   Compliance with public sector   Compliance with public
Employment         privatization, early retirement,  staff rationalization program  sector staff rationalization
separation voluntary severance                           program
Reduction of 400 positions in
the provincial public sector,
plus additional reductions as
the result of the restructuring of
the Department of Water.
Stock of Debt      Agreement on reduction of debt                            Debt stock equal to or less
than $815 million equivalent.
Public Expenditure   Agreement on composition and   Positive Review by the Bank;   Positive Review by the Bank;
Program (until 1999)  structure of social sectors  social sectors have at least 36%   social sectors have at least
expenditure                 of the provincial budget     36% of the consolidated
Commitment to allocate to   External Auditing of the     provincial budget
social sectors at least 36% of    Provincial Public Accounts;  External Auditing of the
the provincial budget       public disclosure of audit   Provincial Public Accounts;
reports                     public disclosure of audit
reports
EDUCATION POLICY CHANGE
Improve            New leave systmn; completed
Administration of    project to change "Estatuto                             Outsource of peripheral
Human Resources    Docente"                                                  services (such as maintenance
and security) to the private
Called for bids to ousource                              sector.
sick leave control to the
private sector.



42 Annex C: Rio Negro
ANNEX C
Rio Negro: Policy Matrix
Activity                  Accomplished               Second Tranche               Third Tranche
Education Budget    Agreement on the budget floor   Education expenditures at least  Education expenditures at
to be kept for the sector.  US$170 million or 22% of the   least US$170 million or 22%
provincial budget (whichever is  of the consolidated provincial
lower).                     budget (whichever is lower)
Savings in personnel cost were   Savings in personnel cost can
retained in the sector and used   be retained in the sector and
to fnance investment       -used to finance investment
Safeguards in place to maintain  Safeguards m place to
education budget            maintain education budget.
Re-conversion of   Interrupted enrolhments in the   Restructure or downsize public  Maintain no more than three
Teacher Training   teacher traming institutes.  teacher training institutes  (out of eight) institutions for
Institutes         Froze enrolments in five     managed by the province.    traming new teachers
institutes and change inplanta
funcional.
Sector Management   Restructuring of the Planta  Personnel costs at most 91% of  Personnel costs at most 91%
Funcional                   education budget             of the education budget
Pnvate Sector                                                               hInplemented new formula for
Incentives                                                                   awarding provincial public
subsidies to private schools in
the Province.
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Sector Budget      Preparation of an expenditure    Actual spending maintained at   Actual spending maintained
plan,1997-99                least at $70 million or 10%, of   at least at $70 million or 10%
the budget, whichever is lower  of the consolidated provincial
Authorization to use savings in  budget (whichever is lower).
personnel to pay performance    Authorization to use savings
premiums or non-personnel   in personnel to pay
expenditures.               performance premiums or
Safeguards in place to maintain  non-personnel expenditures.
health budget               Safeguards m place to
maintain health budget.
Personnel          Agreement on the quantified    Implementation of incentive  Payroll expenditures is not
targets and the mechanics to    system for autonomous    more than 70% of the total
reduce personnel.           hospitals.                   spending in the sector
Present to Legislature Draft                             Staff in CPSP limited to 956;
Law allowing the outsourcing                             IPROSS' staff limited to 292
of given services.



Annex C: Rio Negro 43
ANNEX C
Rio Negro: Policy Matrix
Activity                  Accompllished              Second Tranche               Third Tranche
Autonomous         Definition of hospitals that will  At least two hospitals are made  At least three additional
Hospitals          be transformed into          autonomous (from among five   hospitals are made
Autonomous hospitals.       identified candidates).      autonomous.
Consulting contract to help  New payment system is       New payment and
define the legal fi-amework of   implemented             remuneration system is
the Autonomous hospitals.                               implemented. .
Provincial Health  Agreement to create a        Defined the basic health     Presentation to the Province's
Insurance/ Institute   provincial insurance to cover    package which identified the    legislative bill of law to
Provincial de       the poor                    types and level of medical   create the Provincial Health
Seguridad Social                                services to be provided.     Insurance system
Roster with potential
beneficiaries prepared.
Restructuring of the   Agreement to change CPSP  New structure and fimctions
functions of CPSP    into a regulator agent     and personnel of CPSP as a
health service regulatory entity






ANNEX D
SALTA
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM






Annex D:Salta 44
Province of Salta
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM
Translation
June 10, 1997
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn
1.    This letter describes the main objectives of the reform program of the Province of Salta as well
as the actions to be taken in the areas of public finance, education and public health. To implement this
reform, the Provincial government requests the financial and technical assistance of the World Bank.
Below is the description of the mainL components of the program
1. Background
2.    Salta is a relatively poor province in the Northern Argentina. Its percapita income was about
$3,800 in 1995, ranking 15th in Argentina and less than half the Argentina's average. It accounts for
1.3 percent of Argentina's GDP and 2.8 percent of the country's population.
3.    In the first part of this decade, the fiscal situation of the province deteriorated rapidly. Weak
public administration led a to rapid growth in current expenditures and serious fiscal imbalances,
marked by excessive public employment and too much borrowing. In 1995, the provincial deficit
reached 14% of current revenues, the wage bill absorbed 88% of the provincial net revenues and the
debt stock/revenue ratio was above 75%.
4.    Due to lack of resources, capital expenditures were financed by the earmarked transfers from
the central government and by coimmercial debt guaranteed with shared revenues. Payment arrears
represented 35% of total debt at end-1995.
5.    On the social sectors, the province faced serious problems. Poverty levels were quite high --
34% of the famnilies had unsatisfied basic needs (NBI), and performance in both health and education
was low despite the high share that these sectors had in the budget. Rural infrastructure and water
supply are still major bottlenecks to address the poor conditions in the rural areas.
2. Recent Developments and Initial Adjustment
6.    Salta's economic development has not been sufficient to improve the conditions of the
population and reduce the level of poverty. The province is strategically positioned to take advantage of
the substantial gas and mineral ieposits but it needs an efficient provincial economy in order to
compete under an open trade frmmework. The provincial government is comniitted to create the
favorable conditions of development within the budgetary limits, favoring private initiative and social
justice. The support of a favorable Legislature has been key for the speed of implementing the
proposed reforms.
7.    In 1996, the Provincial Government took the first steps aimed at restoring fiscal balance and
reducing the size of the government. These measures included:
* Wide privatization program of public enterprises, including the provincial bank and the
electricity utility; elimination of the "Consejo General de Educacion", closure of the



45        Annex D:Salta
water department, advanced in the privatization of the water utility (Obras Sanitarias), and
outsourcing of several activities (e.g., Department of Architecture, Water and Irrigation.
* Reconversion of the public sector payroll with cuts in average wages, early retirement for
a substantial number of public sector workers; and elimination of wage "premiums".
* Transference of the Provincial Pension Fund to the National government
* Creation of a Regulatory Board to oversee the concessions of public services to the
private sector.
* Reduction of municipal transfers by 3%
* Enactment of law 6838 which rationalizes the procurement system of the province.
8.    As a result, the fiscal situation has improved significantly. In 1996, the province reached a
current surplus of about 1 percent of the current revenues. The province paid its arrears and
renegotiated the outstanding debt. In the social sectors, important steps were taken to improve the
efficiency and equity of service delivery. Infant mortality has fallen fiom 28.7 per thousand in 1995 to
25.9 per thousand in 1996 and the infint nalnutrition declined by 13% in the population below two
years of age. Health consultations increased from 1.7 million in 1995 to 2.43 million in 1996.
3. The Reform Program of the Province of Salta
9.    The strategy of the Provincial Government is to reduce the role of the public sector in the
regional economy, promote participation of the private sector, and restructuring the provincial
government to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services. For the period 1997-99,
the reform program includes five components.
10.    On the public finance front, the program includes
*  improvement in  tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on own-
source revenues;
  civil service reform and reduction in personnel expenditure, with structural reforms of
selected sectors; and
*  rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government spending, while
ensuring no cuts in the budget for the social sectors.
11.   In the social sectors, the objective is to improve efficiency and focus on demand and poverty
reduction aspects, while promoting major involvement of the private sector.
*  Education reform will ensure the extension of mandatory education and implementation of
the "polimodal" as well as guarantee access to the poor within current budget constraints.
Priority actions include: (a) increasing the studentlteacher ratio and the participation of
staff teaching actively in total staff, (b) reduce the disproportionate use of temporary and
substitute education personnel; (c) improve the incentives for quality achievement; (d)
increase participation of the private sector; and (e) reduce administrative costs.
*  Health reforms will improve efficiency and equity in the health sector, notably by
separating the provision and the financing of public health services, increasing cost
recovery, consolidating hospital facilities, reducing excessive staff and reallocating
resources to non-personnel expenditures, improving targeting to the poor and increasing
health insurance coverage (within the current health budget constraints).



Annex D:Salta 46
3.1 Public Finance
12.   The provincial government is committed to obtain a sustained fiscal balance by the end of
1998 and to abide by strict creditivorthiness rules. In particular, it intends to (a) obtain a current
surplus every year; (b) reduce the personnel expenditures to 65% of net current revenues; (c) assure
fiscal surpluses large enoughl to reduce the debt stock to a sustainable level (less than 70% of the
recurrent revenues) while keeping inLvestment levels an adequate level): (d) maintain the debt service at
an adequate level even if this will be possible only after the debt stock is completely refinanced and
restructured.
13.   The fiscal objectives and benchmarks are shown in Table Dl (in Annex to this Letter). We
estimate that is possible to increase the current revenues and cut the expenditures in personnel in a
stable manner. The instruments to be used to this end are the following:
(a) Improved Tax collection and Administration.
14.   The provincial government is committed to improve its tax collection and administration. The
revenue increases that will be obtained will partly offset the impact of reducing the tax rate on the
turnover tax and of progressively eliminating two distorsive taxes -- the stamp tax and the payroll tax.
The final outcome will be an evident improvement in the structure of the provincial tax system in terms
of economic efficiency and of equity.
15.   In this context, Salta's tax revenues would increase from Arg $101.9 million in 1996 (net of
the effect of the tax amnesty) to $106 million in 1997, despite the lowering of the tax rate on Ingresos
Brutos from 3.5% to 3%. In 1999, tax revenues would reach $142 million. This takes already into
account the lowering of the rate of the Tax on Ingresos Brutos from 3% to 2.5% as well as the
reduction in the stamp tax base, and other smaller taxes.
16.   The province will also try to collect delinquent taxes, whose stock totals 65 million pesos.
17.   The main measures include:
* Improved identification of tax payers, including a census of urban property and
verification of economiic use; and collaboration with the National Direccion General de
Impuestos to update information and share tax payer registers
* Reform of the Tax Department with focus on monitoring and auditing
* Outsourcing tax collection (processing and collection).
* Tax simplification and revision of the Fiscal Code.
* Coordination of tax policies with the municipalities to improve collection of the urban
property tax and improve the design and the structure of municipal taxes.
* Completion of the project of modernization of the system of cadaster.
b) Personnel Expenditures and Civil Service Reform.
18.   Personnel expenditures in Salta represented 86% of net revenues in 1995. To help  the
province's fiscal recovery, the government has implemented several measures which have led to a
reduction of 8.5% of the wage bill in 1996. During 1997-1999, the govermnent program envisages
measures to promote the transference of public sector staff to the private sector by means of a
privatization program, early retirement, outsourcing of peripheral services and attrition. In this way we



47        Annex D:Salta
believe it will be possible to eliminate the social cost of the restructuring while achieving the objectives
of the government.
19.   Training services will be made available to the workers who stay in the public administration
as well as those entering the private sector. To take advantage of the knowledge and experience in the
private sector, the training will include inter-alia the offer of "vouchers" for beneficiaries to use them
in line with the market signs and their personnel preferences. The direct costs of the program are
estimated at about $5.3 million.
(c) Rationalizing Public Expenditure
20.    The government will continue the policy of granting no subsidies to public enterprises (now
mostly privatized) and will ensure that public spending will be oriented to priority sectors having in line
strict criteria of economic and financial justification.
21.    Capital expenditures will increase from $92 million (12% of total expenditures) in 1996 to
$183 million in 1998 and $179 million in 1999. Part will be financed by the provincial public savings.
The remaining is financed by earmarked transfers from the center. The planned level of investment
expenditures would be reduced to the extent that the anticipated financing sources do not materialize.
22.    The stock of debt will decline from $541 million in 1996 to $471 million in 1999. New
borrowing will be exclusively allowed to refinance old debt, finance amortization, or finance well
justified projects.
23.   The Two-year Public Expenditure Plan mirrors the priorities of the government, e.g. social
sectors, poverty alleviation, including education, health, potable water and environment.  All
investment projects will have adequate justification, with the ERR at least at 10%.
24.   To ensure the continuity of the process of transparency and budgetary accountability, the
govermment will propose and pass in the Legislature a Financial Discipline Law based on four
principles: (i) balanced annual budgets with current surplus - no borrowing will be permitted to
finance current expenditures; (ii) annual external auditing by indepenident auditors; (iii) credit ratings
by external enterprises; (iv) limits in the debt stock below 65% of recurrent revenues; (v) limits in
personal costs below 65% of net current revenues; (vi) public works will be procured in line with the
new law of procurement of the province.
3.2 Education
25.   Education in the Province of Salta faces multiple challenges. On the one hand, a significant
increase in educational demand is expected due to demographic growth and extension in compulsory
education from 6 to 10 years. On the other is the need to improve the efficiency and the education
quality all within the budget constraints.
26.    Salta's Ministry of Education has began implementing several actions, namely
*  freeze of automatic increases by time;
* reorganization of the "planta funcional" for primary education;
* interruption of enrollments in the teacher training institutes
*  preparation of a new system of annual and sick leave
*  first draft of a new Estatuto del Educador.



Annex D:Salta 48
27.    In the next few years, the government will deepen and expand the generation of savings and
investment. The reform of the provincial government unfolds into five programs. They are expected to
generate savings (hence capacity of'investment) in the order of $20 million, while lowering the share of
personnel costs to 85% of the educational budget. The five programs aim at (i) improving the
administration of the human rescources; (ii) improving the efficiency of the sector; (iii) promote
decentralization of the sector; (iv) extending incentives to the private sector and (v) restructuring the
teacher training institutes.
*  To improve the human resource administration, the government will implement an
administration system of to help manage education infrastructure and human resource;
reform the leave systam; implement a new teacher system (Estatuto docente) and a new
wage scale (based on perfonnance rather than on years of services). The govermnent
expects to save aboul: $4 million in the management of central administration and $7
million in the reduction of leave and control of absenteeism
*  To improve the efficiency of the system the government will promote a better utilization
of the primary schools and secondary education schools, although substantial investment
may be needed to adapt these schools to larger classes.  It is expected that the
student:teacher ratio will fall to 19:1. Savings are estimated at $10 million
*  To improve the decentralization of education, the province will implement: a
management model al: school level; a pilot compensatory program for schools in risk
zones; another pilot program to support to quality teaching. The government intends to
start with two small piograms of $3 million each
*  To promote the development of the private sector, the government will change the
present system of subsidies based on teachers to a system based on students, providing in
this way a better criteria to assign the $13 million now spent in subsidies to the private
schools. The new system will be based on the cost per student. We believe that a system
more equitable will allow the development of new capacities and improve the education
quality. A diagnosis of the situation of the private schools will be prepared in line with the
development of a formulae to apply.
*  To reconvert the Teacher Training Institutes the govemment will (i) prepare a strategy
to train teachers and (ii) reduce the training capacity representing savings of about $4.5
million.'
28.   Monitoring system. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services rendered
to the community, the government of Salta will use a system. of indicators (Table D5 in Annex) to
monitor the way the reform progress and its impact on the education quality and school coverage.
3.3 Health
29.   The provincial government is aware of the challenges it faces to improve the health status of
Salta's population. On the one hand, infant mortality rate (IMR) is higher than the national average.
On the other hand, its maternal mortality rate is almost twice the national mean. Nutrition and diarrhea
remain among the principal causes of deaths of children 1-4 years old.
30.    Several problems require short and long term solutions: (i) the public hospital system is
inefficient - presently the average occupancy rate is low (5 7%) and so is personnel productivity; (ii)
By the end of the program, ten teacher training institutes and six "tecnicatures" will be closed, with a
reduction in the budget of abouit 40%.



49        Annex D:Salta
over 90% of the Ministry of Health (MOH) budget is allocated to pay for salaries, leaving little for
complementary inputs for good quality care; (iii) hospital authorities have no authority over the size
and salary of personnel (the legislature and existing laws determine these parameters) and thus do not
feel responsible for results and have little motivation to use resources efficiently.
31.   In addition, subsidies to public hospitals are not targeted to the poor. There is no timely
information system for checking health insurance membership. More importantly, public hospitals do
not have any incentive to recover costs (these represent less than 0.5% of the total spending) and make
sure that the poor get good quality service.
32.   The Obra Social Provincial needs to modernize its operations. It needs a computerized
information system that would allow on-line control and authorization of billing charges for health
services and keep track of its membership. In addition, the Obra Social Provincial will change its
payment system from fee-for-service to capitation to reduce cost, while at the same time establishing an
effective regulatory framework to protect its members.
33.   Provincial current per capita spending on the public hospital system -- intended to provide the
poor access to medical care -- is more than twice the average per capita contributions that other Obras
Sociales in the province receive. This suggests that it will be feasible to provide health insurance
coverage to the poor, as well as the choice between public and private providers, using the same or
less amount of money now being spent on public hospitals.
34.   Demands for good primary health services in some areas are not being met due to lack of
personnel and the organization of doctors' work.
35.    There is need to improve the budgetary practice to allow greater transparency regarding the
distribution of public spending on health, particularly in regard the share of primary care.
36.   Reform Program. The main objective of the Government's program for the health sector is to
increase the efficiency and efficacy of the provincial health system, contributing to the objectives of
fiscal adjustment and improving the access of the poor to quality services. This program demands, as
key factors, the following: (i) maintain the sector budget in real tenrs at least to the level of 1996, and
(ii) transfer to the hospitals the authority to change the resource allocation between human resources
and goods and services, within the budgetary envelope allocated to the sector.
37.   The reform proposal includes:
a) restructuring of the public sector through i) transformation of public hospitals into
public autonomous hospitals; ii) reorganization of the Ministry of Health (with a change
in the role of this); iii) outsourcing of general services and iv) privatization of the
commercial insurance of the Provincial Insurance Institute.
b) targeting of public subsidies to the poor through the extension of the OSP to those who
are not formally covered, maintaining the budgetary limits
c) change in the model of public health with the introduclion of a new incentive system to
improve the efficiency and transparency of the transactions in the sector.
38.   To obtain these goals, the government will take measures in five areas:
a) Establishment of Autonomous Hospitals - the province will create 10 Hospitals which
will be autonomous (6 de level III y 4 de level IV) by the end of 1998 and financed by the
sale of services to the public and private insurance. The ]Provincial Law 6841 (March 21,



Annex D:Salta 50
1996) will be used. The implementation calendar includes 3 hospitals of level IV (San
Bernardo, Onativia y Oran) in early 1998 and one hospital level IV and 6 of level III
(Tartagal, Embarcacion, Cafayate, Cachi, General Cuemes, Rosario de la Frontera y
Metan)
b) Provincial Health Insurance. The province will create a provincial institution that will
guarantee the extension of a basic package of health insurance with 100% coverage for
the poor. The province will use the Provincial Insurance Institute as the base for the
Provincial Medical In;urance. The initial medical program will be defined by end of 1997.
The measures are supiported by this initiative in the provincial law 6841.
c) Privatization of commercial insurance now handled by the Institute Provincial del
Seguro.
d) New payment system for suppliers of services based on per-capita adjusted by case-mix.
e) Restructuring of the Ministry of Public Health (MSP). Following the implementation of
the Provincial Health Insurance and autonomous hospitals, the Health Ministry will change
in its role from direct provider to regulator and provider of public goods.
39.   These measures will have the following impact: (a) transference of 2,800 workers of 10
hospitals from the Ministry of Public Health staff to HPA or private sector contracts; (b) outsourcing
of general services (725 persons):, (c) delinking 36 employees from the current commercial insurance
and reductions in the MSP. A set of indexes (Table D6) will be used to monitor the way the reform
progresses.
40.   Financial needs: The following support will be required in support of the above reform: $ 10
million to rehabilitate the infrastructure and equipment of 3 hospitals of level IV ($11 million have been
requested under Provinces 1 and 2.); $ 4 million to strengthen the provincial public insurance in
information technology, census, and identification of users and improvement of physical conditions;
and $ 250,000 to support the developments of private suppliers.
41.   The provincial governmenit will receive from the Provincial Program (PRESSAL) the technical
assistance needed to implement the program of reform described for the Public Health System.
42.   Monitoring System: To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services
rendered to the community, the government of Salta will use a system of indicators (Table D6 in
Annex) to monitor the way the reform progress and its impact on the quality and coverage of the public
health system.
4. Impact of the Reform Program in Environment
43.   Given the nature of the re:form program, its implementation should have no negative impact on
the environment. However, the province will undertake environmental audits for the hospitals included
in para. 38, financed by the teclnical assistance of PRESSAL and before the transformation of the
Autonomous Public Hospitals. The terms of reference, the proposed consultant, and his/her report will
need to be satisfactory to the Bank. The recommendations will be included in the contracts of
transference and the constitution of the Autonomous Public Hospitals.. The government is fully



51       Annex D:Salta
committed with environment protection and is obliged to review andL revise the legal and institutional
framework -- which includes the government agency in charge of t]he enviromnental control - of the
management of the hospital and pathological waste. The government is committed to implement the
improvements in the legal and institutional framework which will be needed, in agreement with the
normal rules and standards, accepted in the Republic Argentina, to ensure the adequate collection,
transport, treatment and final deposit of the pathological waste.
5. Justification for the request of World Bank Assistance
44.   Allow me to underline three reasons which justify the importance our provincial government
gives to the support of the World Bank. First, I would like to mention the importance of the financial
support which will allow the financing of the adjustment costs and priority outlays. Second, I would
mention the technical and professional support receive form your staff. Third, the fact that the Bank is
supporting our program of reform gives us the confidence on the quality of our own program and will
help us to attract the private investors of Argentina and other countries.
6. Letter of Provincial Reform of Salta
45.   In line with the above, the provincial government agrees that the National Government
includes, in the Loan Agreement to be signed with the World Bank, one Annex with the details on the
objectives considered in the Provincial Development Letter and referred to in the Policy Matrix
attached.
Sincerely,
Dr. Juan Carlos Romero
Govemor



Annex D:Salta 52
Table Dl: Province of Salta, Fiscal Indicators - 1995-1999
(In Million of Pesos)
Projected
1995      1996      1997      1998     1999
Current Revenues                  672       676       695       743       800
of which own-source revenues      182       179       148       156       166
Current Expenditures              775       673       661       694       737
Public Savings                    -103       3         34        50       63
Overall Deficit                   -89      27 (b)    -17 (c)     10       22
Debt (Million) (d)                563       542       526       511       475
Indicators
Personnel as % Cur Net. Rev       86 %      76 %      71 %      63 %     54 %
Public Savingsas%  Revenues      -13%       0 %       5 %       7%        8 %
Debt Service as % CwTr.Rev.      20 %      45 %      25 %       27%      17%
Debt Stock as % Revenues          81%       80%       76%       69 %     59 %
(a) The decline in provincial revenues is consequence of the privatization of the Energy
utility and the redxiction in main tax rates.
(b) Includes the proceeds of the privatization's
(c) Financed totally by the Investment Fund created in 1996 with the proceeds of the Privati.
(d) Influenced by lhe debt associated with the privatization of the Bank
Table D2: Salta: Expenditures in Education
(In Million of Pesos)
1995     1996      1997      1998      1999
Expenditure in Education                197       180       210       210       210
Personnel                              180       167       168       162       155
Investment                            0.3        0.3      21         20        20
Transf. for decentralized schlools    0 7       0.3       10.6       18       24.5
Available for non-pers                6.3       2 5       10.0      10.0      10 0
Students (thous)                                 261,7    269,6    277,6    286,0
Cost per student                                 653.7    738.8    738.8    738.8
In Percentage
Personnel                             91.4      91.9       80       75.0      70.0
% of Public Expenditures               22.3      24.0      25.6      26.7      25.9
Table D3: Salta: Public Expenditure in Health
(In Million of Pesos)
1995      1996     1997      1998       1999
Secretary Health                    106       108       108       108       108
Personnel                           92        86        86        58        53
Capital                            0.3       4.7       3.5        5         5
Hospitals                                                       33.5      95.6
Transfers to IPS                     10       9.7        10        18        18
As % of total
Personnel                           76        79        82       76.9      76,5
Capital                            10         3        2.8       4.8       4.8
Hospitals                          72        80        82        82       79,8
% Total Public Exp.                12.6      13.8      13.1      13.1      12.8
* Actual figures for 1995 and 1996. Budgeted for 1997.



53        Annex D:Salta
Table D4
Salta Public Expenditure Program
(Million Pesos)
1995     1996    1997    1998    1999
Total Expenditure       883.8   762.0   839.0   794.0   845.0
Current               775.9   673.0   661.0   694.0   737.0
Personnel             505.0   467.0   445.0   426.0   389.0
Capital               107.9    89.0    148.0    100.0    108.0
Special Program                          30.0
By Sector               883.8    762.0   839.0    794.0   845.0
1. General             284.4   265.0   296.9   271.3    300.4
2. Social Sectors      439.4   360.3   405.8    398.3   406.9
Education            196.8    180.0   210.0   210.0   210.0
Health               106.0    108.0   108.0    108.0    108.0
Housing               36.6    45.7    51.6    47.1        52.2
Welfare              100.0    26.6    36.2    33.1        36.7
3. Economic Services     98.7    60.4    81.9    74.8    82.8
Transport             25.3    23.7    33.0    30.2    33.4
Energy                 69.7    31.3      5.3      4.8      5.4
Other                  3.74      5.5    43.6      39.8    44.1
4. Other                 61.2     76.3    54.4    49.5    54.9
As Percentage
Other
Total Expenditure       100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0
Current               87.79    88.32    78.78    87.41    87.22
Personnel             57.14    61.29    53.04    53.65    46.04
Capital               12.21    11.68    17.64    12.59    12.78
Special Programs         0        0      3.58       0        0
By Sector
1. General             32.18    34.78    35.39    34.17    35.55
2. Social Sectors      49.72    47.28    48.37    50.16    48.15
Education            22.27    23.62    25.03    26.45    24.85
Health               11.99    14.17    12.87    13.60    12.78
Housing               4.14     6.00     6.15     5.94     6.18
Welfare              11.31     3.49     4.32     4.17     4.34



Annex D:Salta 54
Table DS: EDUCATION: MONITORING INDICATORS
Objetives                         Indicators
Management of Education            *  Percentage of Personnel costs in total budget in education .%.
I. Improve Administration of Human    *   Percentage of absenteeism (between 10% and 15%) in the central
Resources                              administration.
*  Percentage of substitutes (between 10 and 12%) less than 0,33 in
unidades educativas
1I. Increase Educational Efficiency la    *  Percentage of sections with a student:teacher = 19 a 1.
* Percentage of investment in EGBIE[ and polimodal in total educational
budget.
* Number of teaching hours in the secondary education
*  Increase in capacity installed in the EGB m  y level polimodal
(enrollment y number additional de schools).
m. Decentralize Educational        *  Percentage of schools and enrollments in the secondary level included
Institutions.                         in the pilot.
*   Cost per capita in the schools of secondary level. .
IV. Incentive the Development of the    *   Percentage of schools that abide by the norm
Private Sector                     *  Percentage of enrollment in the private system
*  Percentage of additional enrollment in schools under the new system
V. Convert the Teacher Training    *  Number of higher education institutes closed
Institutes                         *  Percentage of reduction in budget due to closure of the higher
education institutes (teacher training and tecnicature).
Table D.6: HEALTH: MONITORING INDICATORS
Process Indicators                                 Results Indicators
1. Self-Management:                     1. Targeting the subsidies
*  % participation of autonomous hcspitals *   % Population without coverage covered by the Health Secretary
in consultations and total expenditures    *   % subsides oriented to the poor (*)
*  Revenues collected from the OSP and the
OSN as % of total expenditures
a
2. Payment System:                      2. Service quality:
*   % de participation of payments by the *   Average waiting time between recommendation and actual surgery
new   system   (contracts)  in  total    in the autonomous hospitals
expenditures                        *   other average waiting time (entry in hospital to surgery ) in (HA).
*  Rate of infections inter-hospital in HA
*   Mortality rate inter-hospital in HPA
3. Human Resources                      3. Efficiency of Health Secretary
*   % personnel outlays in total expenditures  *  Percentage of bed occupation
*   % personnel in services and maintenance *  Average days of hospital stay
which chooses outsourcing           *   % in personnel with respect to total expenditures
*   expenditures/personnel
_____I___  *   office visits/personnel
(*) It is possible to compute this on the services rendered to patients in a sample of hospitals in two points in time (1997
and 1999).



I



ANNEX E
SALTA
POLICY MATRIX






Annex E: Salta   55
ANNEX E
Second Provincial Reform Loan
SALTA -Policy Matrix
Activity                      Accomplished                           Second Tranche
General Condition        Legal opinion confirming the constitutionality
of the reforms included in the program and
conditions of tranche disbursement
PUBLIC FINANCE
Fiscal Balance           Agreement on targets for the program      Six month current account surplus of at
.least $15 million equivalent
Agreement on values and control mechanism
Cut in Personnel Costs   Identification of components civil service  Personnel cost equal to no more than 65%
Conversion of public     reform.                                   of the provincial public sector net current
Employment               Implementation of planned reduction in public  revenues
sector positions (1,000 positions)
Second phase of restructuring/downsizing
Debt Stock               Agreement on overall decline of debt      Debt stock equal of less than 70% of
current revenues
Enactment of Law of Financial Discipline
as mentioned m the LPR
Public Expenditure Program   Agreemert on Composition and structure of    External Auditing of the Provincial Public
until 1999               social sectors expenditure, consistent with the   Accounts; public disclosure of audit
objective of the Program as explained in the   reports
Letter of Provincial Reform
EDUCATION POLICY CHANGE
Improve Administration of   Prepared new leave system and approved legal
Human Resources           instrument; froze automatic wage increases
Obtained legislative authorization and invited
for bids the new sick leave control of public
school teachers.
Draft new teaching system law (Ley 6830)
Sector Budget                                                     For each fiscal year, make available
education budget at the real 1996 level or
at least at $210 million, equivalent
whichever higher. Allow savings in
personnel to be used to cover non-
personnel costs. Safeguards in place to
maintain education budget
Increase Educational     First Consolidation completion            Consolidation in pnmary schools leads to a
Efficiency               Approved new organization (POF); allowed    student/teacher ratio = 19:1 for public
savings in personnel to stay in sector   primary school levels up to and including
the 9th grade



56 Annex E: Salta
ANNEX E
Second Provincial Reform Loan
SALTA -Policy Matrix
Activity                      Accomplished                           Second Tranche
Management of Sector and   Agreement on the budget for the sector and on  Personnel cost lowered to 85% of the
promotion of Decentralized  3-year PEP                             provincial education budget
Education                                                         ___
Private Sector participation   Launched study of alternatives for private  New system of subsidies for private
school subsidies taking into account equity and  schools in effect.
efficiency objectives
Conversion of Teacher    Interrupted admissions                    Closure of 10 Teacher Training Institutes
Training                 program to transform schools              and six "Tecnicaturas"
HEALTH REFORM COMPONEN'T
Autonomous Hospitals      Enacted law 6841 (defming the concept of  Ten public hospitals made autonomous.
autonomous public hospital) and defmed
calendar for HPA implementation          Nlew payment system is implemented in
the HPA.
Identification of public hospitals to be  HPA retam the majority of revenues and
decentralized and the auxiliary services to be   can use a system of bonus by performance.
contracted out.                          Apply to their employees the regime
referred to in Article 24 of provincial law
Change employment laws and allow HPA     no. 6841, which may include the provision
employees to be under private sector contract  of merit-based performance bonuses.
Provincial Health        Plan to create a Provincial Insurance Institute   New Provincial Health Insurance System
nsurance, extending health  or similar agency to ensure insurance for poor  into effect
coverage                 people
Identification of a substantial number of
beneficiaries of the new insurance system
Obra Social Provincial   Plan to improve structure OSP             Systm to control beneficiaries in effect
(OSP)                     Separation (via privatizatiou) of comtercial
insurance and life insurance of IPS.
Make available an annual health budget at
Sector Budget            Agreement on Budget Envelope              least at the 1996 real level or $108 million,
whichever is higher. Budget for OSP
should be made available or equivalent to
at least at $30 million or 1996 level,
whichever is higher.
Reduction of personnel costs to no more
than 82% of health sector expenditures
Savings in personnel costs retained in the
sector to finance investment and other
inputs. Safeguards in place to maintain
health budget



ANNEX F
SAN JUAN
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM






Annex F:San Juan 57
Province of San Juan
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM
Translation
June 30, 1997
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn
1.    This letter describes the main objectives of the reform program of the Province of San Juan as
well as the actions to be taken in tile areas of public finance, education and public health. To implement
this reform, the Provincial govennment requests the financial and technical assistance of the World
Bank. Below are the main components of the program.
1. Background
2     The province of San Juan is a relatively poor province in the Northern region of Cuyo in
Argentina. Its per capita income was about $4,200 in 1995, about half Argentina's average. Weak
public administration led a to rapid growth in current expenditures and serious fiscal imbalances,
marked by excessive public employment. In 1995, the provincial deficit reached 44% of current
revenues, the wage bili absorbed 123% of the provincial net current revenues and the debt
stocklrevenue ratio was above 901%.
3.    Due to lack of resources, capital expenditures were financed only from earmarked transfers
from the central government and commercial debt guaranteed by shared revenues. In the social sectors,
the province faces serious poverty -- 19% of the fanilies have non-satisfied basic needs. Performance
in the social sectors is poor despile the high share of resources these sectors absorb.
2. Recent Development and Initial Adjustment
4.    San Juan is well endowed with agricultural and mining resources and has attracted private
investments in the last few years. However, it needs an efficient provincial economy in order to
compete within an open trade 1ramework. The provincial government is committed to create the
favorable conditions of development within budgetary limits, favoring private initiative and social
justice. The support of a favorable Parliament has been fundamental to speedly implement the proposed
reforms since the provincial govermment was sworn in October 1995.
5.    In 1996, the Provincial iGovernment took the first steps aimed at restoring fiscal balance and
reducing the size of government. These measures included: (a) reduction of the wage bill by 30%; (b)
transference of the Provincial Pension Fund to the National government; (c) privatization of the
provincial Bank and the electricity utility; (d) an ongoing privatization of the Water utility; (e)
enactment of laws which allow flexibility and reduction of public employment (Ley de Licencia y Ley
de Emergencia del Personal abe Salud); (f) progressive decentralization and concession of public
works and (g) beginning of 'Decentralization of Peripheral services"which will allow the privatization
of central government departments.
6.    As a result, the fiscal situation has improved: the current deficit fell from 53% of current
revenues in 1995, to 4% in 1996, and the wage bill declined from 123% of net revenues to 76%. The
debt stock is still high (84% of the current revenue) and there is a need for strict control in order to



58 Annex F: San Juan
enable the province to reach a sustainable fiscal balance in two years and develop a future program of
investment in the future, especially in the social sectors where we need priority investments oriented to
our poor.
3. The Reform Program of the Province of SanJuan
7.    The strategy of the Provincial Government is to reduce the role of the public sector in the
regional economy, promote participation of the private sector, restmcture the provincial government
and ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services. For the period 1997-99, the program
unfolds into the following components.
8.    On the public finance front, the program calls for
* Improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on own-
source revenues;
* Civil service reform through personnel reform in selectecl sectors, including privatization
of public services; controls aimed at lowering absenteeism and overpayments, and
measures to increase the quality and professionalism of public employment;
*  Rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government social spending,
maintaining current spending levels for the social sectors.
9.    In the social sectors, the govenmment objective is to improve efficiency in the education and
health sectors, focusing on demand and poverty-reduction aspects, while promoting major involvement
by the private sector.
*  Education reform  will ensure the extension of mandatory education (EGBI) and
implementation of the "polimodal" as well as guarantee access to the poor within current
budget constraints. Priority actions include: (a) increasing the student/teacher ratio and
the ratio of teachers to total staff, (b) reduce the disproportionate use of temporary and
substitute education personnel; (c) improve the incentives for quality achievement; (d)
increase participation of the private sector; and (e) reduce administrative costs.
*  Health reforms will improve efficiency and equity in the health sector, notably by
separating the provision and financing of public health services, implementing the law on
hospital autonomy, increased cost recovery, consolidating hospital ficilities, reducing
excessive staff and reallocating resources to non-personnel expenditures, improving
targeting to the poor, and increasing health insurance coverage (within current health
budget constraints).
3.1 Public Finance
10.   The provincial government is committed to obtain a sustained fiscal balance by the end of
1998, and to abide by strict creditwortiiness rules. In particular, it intends to (a) obtain a current
surplus every year; (b) reduce personnel expenditures to 60% of net current revenues; (c) assure fiscal
surpluses large enough to reduce the debt stock to a sustainable level (less than 60% of recurrent
revenues) while keeping investment levels an adequate level): (d) maintain the debt service at less than
15% of net revenues, even if this will be possible only after the debt stock is completely refinanced and
restructured.



Annex F:San Juan 59
11.   The fiscal objectives and benchmarks are shown in Table F 1 (in Annex to this Letter). We
estimate that is possible to increase current revenues and cut expenditures in personnel in a stable
manner. The instruments to be usecl to this end are the following:
(a) Improved Tax collection and Administration.
12.   During 1996, the province's own-source tax revenues registered a substantial increase in
relation to 1995, about 32%. If we include the increased taxes coming from special programs to
encourage tax payment, that increase was 36%. This experience indicates that the province will be
able to recover the drastic decline in own-source revenue that happened in 1995, and surpass the 1992-
94 level by about 17%.
13.   The provincial governmenl: is committed to improve its tax management and administration.
The revenue increases will be used to offset the likely decline after 1997, of extraordinary revenues
associated with the tax amnesty, application of the CREFI to the payment of delinquent debts,
compensated by the increase in revenues generated by the province itself.
14.   To this aim, the province is finishing the Cadaster Project (urban and rural) which will lead to
a major revaluation of the base of the property tax, with full impact in 1998.
15.   The other component of the strengthening of own resource taxes is the Projecto Integral de
Rentas currently financed by Banlc-supported projects (Provinces I and II). Given the time required to
finish these projects and the urgency of improving the own-resources collection, the province has
prepared a short run action plan which will begin in the second half of 1997, and will allow estimates
of the level of tax evasion which will guide auditing and lead to increases in the effective tax collection
levels. Moreover, the identification of the determinants of the provincial tax collection will lead to the
preparation of better projections in line with the tax resources. The province expects to have the first
results of this short-run program in the first quarter of 1998.
16.   Other programs, equally important, are being undertaken by the Tax Department with an
important expected impact on tax collection levels: (a) strengthening of the System to control the large
taxpayers (System 2,000); (b) cleaning of the Taxpayer Census; (c) implementation of the agreement to
complement information with the DGI; (d) use of information produced by SICOM in relation with tax
evasion or underpayment of the large tax payers.
17.   Our preliminary estimates indicate that it will be feasible for the province to maintain the level
of tax collection around $80 million during 1997 (despite the decline of revenues associated with the
tax amnesty and the decline in fiscal credit bonds), and reach $83.5 million in 1998 and $91.2 million
in 1999.
b) Civil Service Reform.
18.   Personnel expenditures in San Juan represented 84% of net revenues in 1995, and 76% in
1996. The control of personnel costs is critical to the fiscal recovery of the province. In this context,
the government has implementedl a severe cut in the wages of the provincial staff which reduced the
wage bill substantially. In addition, there is a program to reduce public sector employment financed by
BOCEP (Bonos para la Creaci6n de Empleo Privado), financed by the central government, that has
led to separation packages of 692 people with a medium compensation of $14,000.



60 Annex F: San Juan
19.   The government has considered a wide program of pnvatization of peripheral services to
encourage the outsourcing of public services in the form of enterprises formed by public workers. The
first experience was with several Mining Shops with very important and encouraging results. The
government is preparing a program of civil service transformation aimred at (i) reducing the size of the
work force; (ii) support and facilitate the insertion of ex-public worikers into the private sector; (iii)
improve the work conditions of those who remain in the public sector.
20.   To this aim, the province is developing training programs, for the workers that remain in the
public sector and for those that will enter the private sector through early retirement. In this last case,
the program will be implemented taling advantage of the infrastructure and experience in the private
sector through the offer of "vouchers" which will aliow the beneficiaries to use them the best way in
line with the market signs and their personnel preferences. The direct costs of the program will be
financed with 2% of the amount of the retirement which will be financed in equal parts by the
beneficiary and by the government.
21.   Due to the drastic wage cut in 1996, the wage in many categories is very low, with very small
wage differentials between categories and levels of responsibility. Large number of levels have wages
that do not correspond to the responsibility and skills required for the job. The government will proceed
in the reform of the wage scale, with the identification of critical positions, which will be able to
become a professional public service and the restructuring of the wage scale for the whole public sector
and the wage restructuring including criteria of productivity in the remuneration.
22.   To be able to proceed with the objectives of its policy of human resource development, the
provincial government will use other instruments such as voluntary retirement, transference of public
workers employed in the provincial hotels. Water utility (Obras Sanitarias), casino, and the Bus
Terminal -- all of which are being privatized -- as well as the design and execution of the early
retirement program financed by own resources with attractive conditions for public sector workers.
(c) Rationalizing Public Expenditure
23.   Together with the reduction in wage costs and improvement of tax collection, the govermment
will continue the policy of no subsidies to public enterprises (now mostly privatized) and will ensure
that public spending will be oriented to priority sectors having in line strict criteria of economic and
financial justification.
24.    Capital expenditures will increase from $56 million (9% of total expenditures) in 1996 to $76
million in 1998. Half will be financed by provincial public savings. The remaining will be financed by
earmarked transfers from the center. The planned level of investment expenditures would be reduced to
the extent that the anticipated financing sources do not materialize.
25.   The stock of debt will decline from US$401 million in 1996, to US$288 million in 1999. New
borrowing will be exclusively allowed to refinance old debt or finance amortization or well justified
projects.
26.   The Three year Public Expenditure Plan mirrors the priorities of the government, e.g. social
sectors, poverty alleviation, including education, health, potable water and environment.  All
investment projects will have adequate justification, with an ERR of at least 10%. New public work
projects should be submitted in line with the new Law of Purchases and Procurement to make them
more open and to encourage private sector development.



Annex F:San Juan 61
27.   To ensure the continuity oF the process of transparency and budgetary accountability, the
government will propose and pass in the Legislature a law of financial discipline based on four
principles of financial management: (i) balanced annual budgets with current surplus -- no borrowing
will be permitted to finance current expenditures; (ii) annual external auditing by independent auditors;
(iii) limits in the debt stock below 65% of recurrent revenues and personal costs below 65% of net
current revenues; (iv) public works will be procured in line with the new law of procurement of the
province as it will be conducive to increased participation of the private sector.
3.2 Education
28.   Framework: Education in the province of San Juan faces the challenge of extending
compulsory education in line with the Federal Law on Education and improving efficiency and
educational quality. In San Juan's education budget, the wage bill represents 99% of the total budget.
The investment comes totally through Nacional programs for a total of $11 million in 1996
(PROSONU, $1.7 millions; PRISE $0.3 millions; BID $2.4 million; Plano Social Educativo, $4.6
miillion; Pacto Federal, $1.2 million and MCEN $0.9 million) . The policy of the province is to be
able to generate savings to be able to extend the third part of the basic education, within the current
budgetary constraints, while recovering the wages of the teachers in line with the educational quality.
29.   During 1996, the province undertook a deep adjustment in educational spending and took
several decisions to face this situation. From 1995 to 1996, the budget allocated to education was cut
by 29%, that is, from $188.2 million to $134.8 million. The reduction came mainly from the cuts in
wages in 1995 (Decree Agreement No 006/95) and the reorganization of the planta fincional of the
schools which allowed an increase in the student:teacher ratio from 13.8 to 16.7 in the public system
between 1994/96. In terms of relevant laws, the province enacted (i) the law on leave for teachers (Ley
sobre el nuevo Rfgimen de Licencias y Franquicias); (ii) Emergency Education Law; (iii) the
Provincial Education law; and (iv) the Law ratifying the Federal Pacto Educativo.
30.   In the next years, the government will deepen the transformation of the educational sector
according to the following guide,lines: (i) gradual expansion of the compulsory education; (ii)
implementation of new curriculun together with teacher training; (iii) reform  of the central
administration of the Ministry of E'ducation and the decentralization of the financial administration in
regions and towards the schools;, (iv) the reorganization of the plantas fincionales and (v) the
restructuring the non-university Hibgher Education.
31.   The government wants to deepen the process of improving the administration of the
educational sector to lima the wage bill to 94% of the total budget and generate a capacity of $5 million
in two years. This level of investmnent (including training, incentives, equipment and maintenance, and
infrastructure) will allow to increase quality, generate new school capacities and promote incentives in
teachers. The reforms to reach tlis objective are the following: (i) improve the administration of the
human resources; (ii) improving the efficiency of the sector; (iii) promote decentralization of the sector;
(iv) extend incentives to the private- sector and (v) restructure the Teacher Training Institutes.
a) The improvement cf the human resource administration will generate substantial
savings. The administrative staff of the Ministry at the central level includes 373 people
and could be reduced to 60 people. This will generate savings of about $0.6 year. The
implementation of the new leave system and control of absenteeism (already full
implemented) would generated another $0.1 million in 1998. Next year the govenunent
will create a wage system which will include a system of incentives and quality premia.



62 Annex F: San Juan
b) To improve educational efficiency, the government will promote a better utilization of
the school structures. In the primary education, the Ministry of Education did a major re-
arranging of people and infiastructure. The objective is to increase the student:teacher
ration to 19:1 in 1998. In the secondary education, it is expected that savings will reach
$2.8 millions by the reduction of 4,490 teaching hours. In 1997 and 1998, the potential
savings is $0.3 millions pay the reordering of the classes size and the reduction of 125
teaching positions.
c) The province is committed to promote the decentralization of educational management
and the optimization of the educational spending, promote the quality in the school to
answer the needs in the poorest zones or where the levels of repetition or drop out are
special high. The province is committed to develop a management model and create in
1997 an $2 million Incentive Fund to finance decentralized initiatives to improve quality
and finance a program pilot schools.
d) To promote the development of the private sector, the govermnent aims at reducing the
substantial dispersion in the per-student subsidy1. The 1997 budget has allocated $16.3
million to 85 schools (out of 92) representing an average of $700 per student. A more
equitable allocation would allow the promote new capacities and to improve the
educational quality. This way of allocation by teachers is not equitable and does not
provide incentives to the private sector which accounts for 14% of the enrollments. In
1997, the government will diagnosis the situation of the financing of the private sector and
will prepare an action plan which will design alternatives of financing. In 1998, the
province will adopt a system of subsidies according to a formula that will include the cost
per student as well as regional factors and social indicators.
e) The Teacher Training institutes have been reformed sinoe 1995. During 1996 and 1997,
the number of teacher training institutes has declined to eight and four were converted into
Tecnicaturas. The government will continue reducing the enrollment to limit the institutes
to six and reconvert six into "tecnicature2. The earlier reduction in enrollments will lead
to a decline in teaching hours (around 700) or 11% budgetary savings. The annual budget
for the teacher training institute is actually $6.8 million.
32.   The government of San Juan is committed to increase the educational budget so as to reach
$146.7 million in 1998 so as to be able to maintain the wage bill, increase some the lowest wages and
guarantee that the savings obtained by the proposed actions are used and invested within the sector to
enable a better quality system.
33.   Monitoring system. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services rendered
to the community, the government of San Juan will use the system of indicators (Table F5 in Annex)
which will allow the government to monitor the way how the reform unfolds and the long-run impact in
the education quality and school coverage.
1 In primary school, the subsidies ranges between $135 and $469 for an average $265 and in the urban
schools from 47 to 307; in the urban secondary schools the subsidy ranges from 147 to 950.
2 " (in the institutions of teacher training the cost per student if $2714 with a rnge of $731 and 4.550.
The cost by graduate varies between $1,711 and $12,303



Annex F:San Juan 63
3.3 Health
34.   The provincial government has given the first steps to reform the sector of public health
especially in terms of paying the debts of the Obra Social Provincial, the reform of the purchasing
contracts of the Obra Social Provincial and of Secretaria de Estado de Salud Publica (SESP) , and
the reductions in the staff which slarted in 1995-96. The government has planned larger reductions in
personnel, taking into account (a) that the administrative positions will not exceed more than 30% of
the personnel; (b) the reductions i the personnel costs could contribute to change the structure of
expenditures in favor of goods and services, non-personnel costs and investments.
35.   These policies are based on strategic guidelines aiming at improve the efficiency of the
expenditures in the sector, favoring the poor segments of the population and those without public health
insurance. In this context the government has decided that (i) there will be no reductions in the health
budget; (b) the revenues that accru.e to the autonomous hospitals and other savings will be administered
by the SESP and by the directors of the hospitals autonomous; (c) the savings obtained by the
reduction in personnel costs will be allocated to increase inputs and non-personnel spending; (d) the
government will develop a new model of management for hospital personnel, reform the payment
system in the context of the SESP and the Obra Social Provincial, and there will be incentives to
personnel based on productivity, efficiency and efficacy, financed by a percentage of the cost recovery.
36.   To make these measures sustainable, the government reform program includes changes in the
following areas:
*  Public providers: to improve the efficiency of procurement and contracting, the legal
framework will be reinrms, including the direct management of the autonomous hospitals.
*  Financing: the restrulcturing and strengthening of the OSP, the development of laws and
norms, the model of management and information system to improve the billing and
collection of the service payments that the hospitals made to the beneficiaries of the health
insurance (public, private and mixed); the creation of a Provincial Health Insurance
(Seguro Provincial ale Salud) which will include the resources of the OSP and the budget
funds of the Secretary of Public Health. This Seguro Provincial de Salud will aim at
improve the parameters of equity in the system, reaching the target population (poor and
without insurance coverage) and to reach important savings by improvement of the
efficiency in the allocation of funds.
*  in the Secretary of Public Health, the government will reform the institution, strengthen
its capacity as controling (financing and medical quality) and regulatory agency (notable
by managing the health contracts with the autonomous hospitals).
37.   The areas of intervention and the objectives are the following:
*  Personnel: the staff in the health public sector will decline to reach 3,800 employees; the
costs in personnel will not exceed 70% of the sector budget
*  Autonomous Hospitals: Five hospitals will become autonomous (including the Hospital
Marcial Quiroga) and the development plan to made Hospital Guillermo Rawson
autonomous will be prepared. These hospitals wiDl be financed by the sale of their services
within the budgetary limits.



64 Annex F: San Juan
*  Payment Systems: the government will develop a new paLyment system based on
parameters that promote efficiency, productivity, and transparency of transactions.
*  Provincial Health System: the government will prepare and introduce in the legislature a
draft law to create the new system. Moreover, the government will obtain $1.8 million in
cost recovery
*  Obra Social Provincial: the government will develop andl implement the restructuring of
the management of OSP and will complete its financial recovery
*  Secretaria de Estado de SaludWPublica: the SESP will be strengthened as agent of control
and regulatory body of the public health system in the province
38.   Monitoring System: To be able to follow up on the evolution of the quality of the services
rendered to the community the provincial government will use the system of indicators in Table F6.
39.   The provincial government is aware that the reform process will require the strengthening of
the SESP so it can undertake the financial, legal and management efforts needed to implement the
reform. Technical assistance will be needed in the following areas:
* redefinition of the legal framework and development of the administration model and
management;
* design of the new payment systems and implementation;
* design of the legal framework for the Provincial Health Insurance;
* institutional diagnosis of the OSP, restructuring plan and proposal of implementation;
* design of the new structure of the SESP.
40.   This program will be financed by PRESSAL (Ministry of Health), Provincias I e II (Ministerio
del Interior), resources for the proposed loan and the funds of the province.
41.   Financial Needs: Table H3 in Annex includes the 3-year program which is compatible with the
above program.
4. Impact of the Reform Program in Environment
42.   Given the nature of the reform program, its implementation should have no negative impact on
the environment. To this end, the government will undertake an environmental audit of the hospitals
mentioned in Para 37. financed by the technical assistance of PRESSA1, and before the transformation
of the hospitals into autonomous hospitals. The terms of reference, the proposed consultant's CV, and
the resulting report will be satisfactory to the Bank. The recommendations of the audits will be
implemented by the Autonomous Public Hospital. The government is committed to review the legal
and institutional framework -- which includes the organ of environment supervision -- regulating the
management of the hospital pathologic waste. The government is also committed to implement the
improvement in the legal fiamework which will be necessary, in line with the normal rules and
standards, accepted by the Argentine Republic, to ensure the collection, transport, treatment and final
deposition of pathological wastes.



Annex F:San Juan 65
5. Letter of Provincial Reform of San Juan
43.   In line with the above, the provincial government agrees that the National Government should
include, in the Loan Agreement to be signed with the World Bank, one Annex with the details on the
objectives considered in the Provincial Development Letter and referred to in the Policy Matrix
attached.
6. Justification for the re,quest of World Bank Assistance
44.   Mr. Wolfensohn, I would like to insist on the importance given by this province to the support
of the Bank to our Provincial Reform Program. First, I would like to mention the importance of the
financial support which will allow the financing of the adjustment costs and priority outlays. Second, I
would mention the technical and professional support receive form your staff with whom we have
worked. Third, the fact that the flank is supporting our program of reform gives us the confidence on
the quality of our own program and will help us to attract the private investors.
Sincerely,
Dr.  Jorge a Escobar



66 Annex F: San Juan
Table Fl: Province of SanJuan, Fiscal Indicators - 1995-1999
(Nillions Pesos)
Estimated           Projected
1995      1996      1997      1998    1999
Current Revenues                    412       479       54'i      574       618
of which own-source revenues         78        97       115       112       118
Current Expenditures                631       497       537       560       563
Personnel Expenditures              418       317        329      338       330
Public Savings                      -219      -18        9        14        55
Overall Deficit                    -181        49        5        21        59
Debt (Million) (d)                  382       401       352       322       288
Indicators
Personnel as % Cur Net. Rev         123        76        68       67        60
Public Savings as % Revenues        -53        -4        2         2         9
Debt Service as % Curr.Rev.                    38        20       12        11
Debt Stock as% Revenues             116        84        65      -56        47
Table F2: San Juan: Education Expenditures
(Millions Pesos)
1995      1996      1997       1998       1999
Expenditure in Education             186.63    132.56     140.87    146.73    153.88
Personnel                           165.66    116.45     120.74    124.20    127.31
Transf. private sector               20.41     15.76      16.34      17.98     18.45
Goods and Services                     .56       .32        .67       .82       1.84
Capital Expenditures                      0       .03       .38        .38        .68
Investment (Prov. Funds)                  0         0       2.74      3.34       5.60
Investment (External Funds)            .041     11.01      31.15       1.42        0
Students ('000)                      148.09    148.52     149.52    150.42    151.32
Cost per student                      1.260      976        942        975      1017
In percentage
Personnel                             99,7    99,71        97.0      96.5      94.0
Capital Expenditures                  0,3      0,29        2,7        3,2       5.6
Table F3: San Juan: Health Expenditures
Mllions Pesos)
1995    1996      1997      1998      1999
Health Expenditures            120.3     102.9    112.6      115.9    118.3
Personnel                     72.8      53.7      56.5      57.8      55.8
Goods and Services            11.5      12.8      13.8      15.8      20.1
Capital                                 0.2       1.3       1.3       1.3
Obra Social Provincial        35.9      36.2      41.0      41.0      41.0
As percentage of Total
Personnel                     86.4      80.5      79        77.2      72.3
Capital y Gods and Services   13.6      10.5      19.3      21.1     26.1



Annex F:San Juan 67
Table F4
San Juan: Public Expenditure Program
(Millions Pesos)
1993      1994       1995       1996     1997     1998      1999
Total Expenditure      635        781        710       548      622       636      646
Current              549        648        634       480       510      531      534
Personnel            346        423        416       317       329      338      330
Capital               66        115         62        39       69        67       69
Special Program      20         18         14        29        43       39       42
By Sector              635        781        710       548      622       636      646
1. General            169        203        192       170       164      170      173
2. Social Sectors     334        407        390       271       323      326      333
Education           162        194        191       137       151      147      154
Health               73         90         86        65       72        76       77
Housing              23         46         28        24       56        56       56
Welfare              76         77         86        46       46       46        46
3. Economic Services    78        112        74        51        61       64        63
Transport            15         22         15         15       17       18        18
Energy               18        46          28        8        14        16       16
Other               46         45         31        28        30       31       30
4. Other              53         59         54        55        74       78       77
Secunty             46         52         49        47       46        48       48
Public Debt          6          5          3         7        27       29       28
Total Expenditure     100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Current              86.5       82.0       89.3      87.6     82.0      83.1     82 9
Personnel            54.5       54 2       58.6      57.9      52.8     53.1     51 2
Capital              10.4       14 7       8.7        7.7      11.0     10.5     10.6
Investment           10 4       14.7        8 7       7.1      11.0     10.5     10.6
Especial Programa     3.1        2.3        2.0       5.3       7.0      6.1      6 6
By Sector             100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
I General             26.6        26         27       30.1     27.1      26.8     26.8
2 Social Sectors     52.63       52.05      54.95     49.55     50.5     51.0     51.0
Education           25.5       24.8       26.9      24.9     22.7      23.1     23.9
Salud               11 5       11.5      12.05      11 9     11.5      11 8     11.9
Housmg              3.4        5 9        4.9        3.4      9.0      8 8       8.7
Welfare             11.9       9.9        12.1       8.4      7.4      7.2       7.1
3. Economic Service    12.3       14.3       10.4      9.4      10.2     10.0      9.8
4 Other                64         7.6        7.5        10       12       12.3     12.0
o/w Public Debt       0.9        0.9        0.4       1.4      4.3       4.6      4.3



68 Annex F: San Juan
Table F5: EDUCATION: MONITORING INDICATORS
Objetives                                         Indicators
Management of Education            *   Percentage of Personnel costs in total budget in education is less or
equal to 94.%.
I. Improve Administration of Human  *   Percentage of Absenteeism (from  10% to 15%1 - in the central
Resources                              administration.
*   Percentage of substitutes (from 10% and 12%)
nI. Increase Educational Efficiency la    *  Percentage of sections with a student:teacher = 19: 1.
* Percentage of investment in EGBII -and polimodal in total educational
budget.
*  Number of teaching hours in the secondary education
*  Increase in capacity installed in the EGB m  y level polimodal
(enrollment y number additional de schools).
III    Decentralize    Educational  *   Percentage of schools and enrollnents in the secondary level included
Institutions.                          in the pilot
*   Cost per capita in the schools of secondary level. .
IV. Incentive the Development of the  *  Percentage of schools that abide by the norm
Private Sector                     *  Percentage of enrollment in the private system
*  Percentage of additional enrollment in schools under the new system
V  Convert the Teacher Training  *  Number of higher education institutes closed
Institutes                         *  Percentage of reduction in budget due to closure of the higher
education institutes (teacher training and tecnicature).
Table F6: HEALTH: MONITORING INDICAT'ORS
Process Indicators                                 Results Indicators
1 Self-Management:                      1. Targeting subsidies
*   % participation of autonomous hospitals *   % Population without coverage covered by the Health Secretary
in  total  consultations  and  total *   % subsides oriented to the poor ()
expenditures
*  Revenues collected from the OSP and the
OSN as % of total expenditures
2. Payment System:                      2. Service quality
*   % ayments by the new system (contracts) *  Average waiting timne between irecommendation and actual surgery
in total expenditures                   in the autonomous hospitals
*   other average waiting time (entry in hospital to surgery ) in (HA).
*  Rate of infections inter-hospital in HA
*   Mortality rate inter-hospital m HPA
3. Human Resources                      3. Efficiency of Health Secretary
*   % personnel costs of total expenditures   *  Percentage of bed occupation
*   % personnel in services and maintenance *  Average days of hospital stay
which chooses outsourcing           *   % personnel costs with respect io total expenditures
*   expenditures/personnel
*  office visits/personnel
($) It is possible to compute these indicators on services rendered to patients in a sample of Hospitals in two points in
time (1997 and 1999).



ANNEX G
SAN JUAN
POLICY MATRIX






Annex G: SanJuan 69
ANNEX G
Second Provincial Reform Loan
San Juan - Policy Matrix
Activity             Accomplished                 Second Tranche               Third Tranche
General Condition   Legal opinion confinring the
constitutionality cf the reforms
included in the program and
conditions of tranche
disbursement
PUBLIC FINANCE
Fiscal Balance      Agreement on targets for the  Three-month current account    Three-month current account
program                     surplus of at least $2.5 million  surplus of at least $5 million
equivalent.                 equivalent ($20 million
annualized).
Cut in personnel cost  Identification of components    Number of provincial public    Personnel cost equal to no more
Conversion of public                            sector staff is 1,140 lower than  than 65% of net current
employment                                      the number of positions      revenues
budgeted in 1997            Provincial public sector staff is
reduced by an additional 617
positions (excluding
autonomous hospitals).
Debt Stock          Debt has been restructured a                             Debt Stock equal to or less than
and short-term debt has been                             60% of current revenues
replaced by longer-term debt                             Enactment of Law of Financial
Discipline as mentioned in the
LPR
Tax Reform          Structure of vehicle tax has  Provincial tax structure has
been simplified. ]nfrastructure   been substantially simplified,
to connect data basis between    notably with respect to the
Direction General de Rentas  urban and ural property taxes.
and cadaster has been
substantially installed.
Prepared to further simplify
taxes
Public Expenditure    Agreed on a 3-yesr PEP which   Positive Review by the Bank    Positive Review by the Bank
Program until 1999   is consistent with the objective   External Auditing of the  External Auditing of the
of the Program and is included   Provincial Public Accounts;  Provincial Public Accounts,
in the Letter of Provincial  public disclosure of audit  public disclosure of audit
Reform                      reports                     reports
EDUCATIONAL POLICY REFORM
Improve             Prepared new leave system   Implemented new program to
Administration of    Invitation for bids for award of  control sick leave and
Human Resources    the contract to control public    absenteeism. Creation of
school sick leave and       Incentive Fund to provide
absenteeism                 support to secondary and
polimodal schools.



70 Annex G: SanJuan
ANNEX G
Second Provincial Reform Loan
San Juan - Policy Matrix
Activity              Accomplished                Second Tranche                Third Tranche
Increase Educational
Efficiency           .        ..        .....                             .Student:teacher ratio is
First consolidation at primary    Consolidation in primary public  maintained at no less than 19:1
level                        education to increase the      ai    at no   ls
student:teacher ratio to 17:1.    mprimary publc schools.
New structure -plantas
organico-funcionales (POF)
approved and implemented at
the middle level.
Teacher Training    Reduce the number of         Limit the Teacher Training   Limit the Teacher Training
Institutes          enrollments                  Institutes to seven and      Institutes to no more than six.
Tecnicaturas to six; savings
Transform or closed excessive   wi be 700 teaching hours
public teacher trainung      (11%). pr 50 faculty positions
Management of       Agreement on Budget and      Sought legislative authorization  Sought legislative authorization
Sector              public expenditure program.  to make available an amount    for education budget equal to
equivalent in real terms to at    that for 1996 or at least $150
least the annual amount      million equivalent whichever is
budgeted for 1996 or         higher, percentage spent in
equivalent to at least $146  wages is equal to no more than
million.                     94% of education sector
Wage bill is equal to no rnore    expenditus
than 96.5% of the sector     Sought legislative authorization
budget                      so that budget amounts wil be
Souht egilatveauthorization  maintained and will not be
Sought legislative uth      transferred to other sectors and
to have savings in the       that savings in personnel will
personnel stay in the sector and  be used to finance invests and
finance non-personnel costs.    bonus costs
Sought legislative authorization
to have safeguards in place to    Sought legislative authorization
maintain education budget    to have safeguards in place to
maintain education budget
Private schools     Prepared TOR and ensured the   Formula of public schools
financing of technical      subsidies implemented in
assistance to prepare basic  private schools.
fornula for private school
subsidies.
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Sector Budget       Plan of Expenditures         Sought legislative authorization   Sought legislative
discussed; 1997 health budget  to use savings from reductions   authorization so that (i) budget
maintains at least the 1996  in staff to provide          at least at the 1996 level in real
level in real prices (presented    performance incentives or  prices; (ii) budget amounts will
to legislature for approval).  finance investments or inputs,   be maintained and will not be
to maintain sector budget at no  transferred to other sectors, and
less than real 1996 budget  (iii) savings in personnel wil
levels, and to actually allow  be used to finance invests and
full use of budget.         bonus costs



Annex G: SanJuan 71
ANNEX G
Second Provincial Reform Loan
San Juan - Policy Matrix
Activity              Accompli 5hed               Second Tranche                Third Tranche
Personnel           Agreement in targets and     Staff reduced to 4,150 by    Personnel cost represents at
mechanism to reduce personnel  outsourcing and other      most 72% of health budget
separation mechanism.        S    of Health Secretary
reduced to 3,800 total
permanent and temporary
Autonomous          Agreement on strategy to     At least five hospitals have  Hospital M. Quiroga has
Hospitals           separate provision from      become autonomous            become autonomous.
fnancing of public health    New payment system is        Plan completed to make the
services.                   implemented in decentralized    Rawson Hospital autonomous.
Completion of termis of      hospitals
reference for design of new
payment system.
Provincial Health   Agreement to create a        Completion of Roster with    Presenting to Legislature Law
Insurance.          Provincial Health Insurance to   potential beneficiaries of the    to create a new Provincial
province health insmrance to  new insurance system (poor)    Health Insurance.
those not covered by any other   Definition of the Medical
system.                     Program applicable to the poor
Completion of ternns of      and OSP
reference for design of new
health benefits package
Roster with beneficiaries of
the new insurance system (obra
social)
Obras Sociales      Plan to improve structure with  Implementation of the new
Provinciales        new organization             management structure
Restructuring of the   Agreement to change the   New structure in place
Secretariat of Health   Secretary of Healtlh into a
regulator agency






ANNEX H
TUCUMAN
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM






Annex H: Tucuman 72
Province of Tucuman
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM
Translation
July 1, 1997
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn
1.    This letter describes the main objectives of the reform program of the Province of Tucuman as
well as the actions to be taken in the areas of public finance, education and health. To implement this
reform, the Provincial Government requests the financial and technical assistance of the World Bank.
1. Background
2.    Tucuman is a province in ihe Northern Argentina, with a percapita income of about $3,600 in
1995, ranking 17th in Argentina and less than half the Argentina's average. It accounts for 2.2 percent
of Argentina's GDP and 3 percent of the country's population.
3.    In the first part of this decade, the fiscal situation of the province deteriorated rapidly due to
weak public administration and rapid growth in current expenditures. In 1995, the provincial deficit
reached US$186 mnillion or 27% of current revenues. The wage bill had doubled since 1990 and
absorbed 83% of the provincial net revenues. Paymnent arrears had accumulated to about US$200
!aillion at end of 1995 or almost oine-third of the outstanding debt of US$650 million. The provincial
bonds and script represented another 20%. The rest of the outstanding debt was owed to commercial
banks at high interest rates. Debt service consumed half of provincial revenues.
4.    On the social sectors, the province faced serious problems. Poverty levels were high -- 22% of
the population had unsatisfied basic needs -- and performance in both health and education provision
was poor despite the high share that both sectors had in the budget. Lack of water supply is still a
major bottleneck to improve the condition of the poor -- 65% of the rural poor have no access to water
or sewage. Diarrhea is chronic and infant mortality is rampant.
2. Recent Development and Initial Adjustment
5.    To improve the fiscal situation and restore credibility of the public sector, the new provincial
govenmment initiated a comprehensive reform program aimed at reducing the role of the state in the
local economy and improving the efficiency of social spending.
6.    In 1996, the government took the first steps to restore fiscal balance. The most important
measures were the following:
* Elimination of seven clepartments in the central administration
* Imposition of a reimbursable 15% 'solidarity tax" on wages, which is now being
reimbursed
* A wide privatization program of public enterprises - the province has completed the
privatization of all its major enterprises and public services. (The Savings Bank is now
beginning to privatize some departments.)



73 Annex H: Tucuman
*  Reduction of public sector employment (mainly through early retirement) by 4,500
workers
*  Transferred the Provincial Pension Fund to the central government
*  Elinination of the discretionary transfers to the municipalities and communes, which in the
past had quasi-automatic financing of their deficits by the province.
*  Refinancing the provincial debt
7.    In 1997, additional measures were taken.
*  The Municipal Bank was privatized, assisted by the provincial government
*  The department of gambling of the Savings Bank is now being privatized, a part of the
Bank's privatization
*  a Ministry of Education has been created to support the reforms in the sector and the
application of the Federal Education Law, while improving resource allocation and aiming
at larger decentralization in the management of the resources allocated to the enrollment
and quality of the education services.
*  Since January 1997 the government is retiring "scrip" (provincial bonds) in the amount of
$50 million and is committed to eliminate this type of debt, which has an additional $33
million outstanding.
8.    As a result of the above measures, the fiscal situation improved substantially. The current
deficit fell from $186 million in 1995 to $106 million in 1996 and a small surplus is expected in 1997
(about 4% of current revenues) allowing some regularization of arrears and renegotiation of
outstanding debt. In the social sectors, the government has improved the efficiency and equity of the
provision of services..
3. The Reform Program of the Province of Tucuman
9.    The strategy of the Provincial Government is to reduce the role of the public sector in the
regional economy, promote participation of the private sector, restructure the provincial government
and ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services. For the period 1997-99, the program
focuses on public finance adjustment and reform of social sectors.
10.    On the public finance front, the government intends to: (a) improve tax collection and
administration to promote higher reliance on own-source revenues; (b) reform the civil service through
the structural reform of selected sectors, privatization of public services, outsourcing of peripheral
services and controls to lower absenteeism and overpayments; and (c) rationalize public expenditures,
maintaining the spending levels of the social sectors.
11.   In the social sectors, the objective is to improve efficiency in the education and health sectors,
focusing on demand and poverty reduction aspects, while promoting involvement of the private sector.
The Education reform  will ensure the extension of mandatory education and
implementation of the "polimodal" (polyvalent education) as well as access to the poor
within current  budget constraints.  Priority actions: include:  (a) increasing the
student/teacher ratio and the participation of staff teaching actively in total staff; (b)
reduce the disproportionate use of temporary and substitute education personnel; (c)
improve the incentives for quality achievement; (d) increase participation of the private
sector; and (e) reduce administrative costs.



Annex H: Tucuman 74
* Health reforms will also improve efficiency and equity in the health sector, notably by
separating the provision and the financing of public health services, increasing cost
recovery, consolidating hospital facilities, reducing excessive labor costs and reallocating
resources to non-personnel expenditures, improving targeting to the poor and increasing
health insurance coverage (within the current health budget constraints).
3.1 Public Finance
12.   The provincial government is comrnitted to obtain a sustained fiscal balance by the end of
1998, and to abide by strict creditwrortiiness rules. In particular, it intends to (a) obtain a current
surplus every year; (b) reduce personmel expenditures to 65% of net current revenues; (c) assure fiscal
surpluses large enough to reduce the debt stock to a sustainable level (less than 80% of the recurrent
revenues in 1999, while keeping investment levels at an adequate level: (d) maintain debt service at an
adequate level, although this will be possible only after the debt stock is completely refinanced and
restructured.
13.   The fiscal objectives and benchmarks are shown in Table HI (in Annex) and are feasible. The
provincial government is committed to increase the current resources and cut personnel costs.
Provincial resources are expected to grow due to, among other factors, the improvement in tax
collection and outsourcing of collection of the delinquent tax debt. The provincial government expects
that provincial tax revenues will exceed 24% of total resources in 1999 compared with 19% in 1995.
14.   The provincial government plans to adjust public spending through outsourcing of peripheral
activities; debt refinancing and restructuring of the public administration. We plan to implement a
program of restructuring of the public sector which includes several national and provincial programs
of voluntary retirement, as well as measures to increase the efficiency and reward of the public sector
employees.
15.   The government expects to reach a sustainable fiscal balance in 1998 with a current surplus of
at least $40 million. Personnel costs will be 65% of the net current revenues in 1998; the debt stock
would go below 80% of current reveinues by 1999.
(a) Tax Administration Reiform
16.   Improvement in Tax Collection, Auditing and Billing. The province has an important tax
base which traditionally has been underutilized due to weak administrative capacity and high tax
evasion. The government plans to implement several measures to remedy that situation.
17.   Tax Collection. The province made an agreement with the commercial banks to enable the
automatic registration of the tax payments. The implementation of regional tax agencies has begun
which will improve tax management by decentralizing the issue property and vehicle tax statements.
The collaboration of the Departnent de Rentas and the Department of Cadastre led to an increase in
the number of registered properties by 30,000 (increasing the tax base in 1997) and is expected to
cover an additional 100,000 plots in 1997-99.
18.   Tax Auditing. The government increased the number of auditors ( inspectors) which led to
better supervision and assessment cif the size of the delinquent taxes (about $21 million in tenns of
turnover tax). In addition, 2,000 cases of vehicle tax evasion were reported. Law 6812 was approved



75 Annex H: Tucuman
authorizing the outsourcing of tax auditing, collection and billing of' the tax payers living outside the
province -- "Ingresos Brutos del Convenio Multilateral ".
19.   Compulsive Collection. A special effort was done to recover delinquent taxes. More lawyers
were hired and the "Court de Apremio" was strengthened. During February-April, the lawyers
initiated tax recovery actions on a total of $5 million.
20.   The stock of delinquent tax is estimated at $56 million for the vehicle tax, $138 millions in
property taxes and $2 million in Ingresos Brutos. To make it easier for the debt to be paid, the
province will offer a gradual payment plan by which outstanding tax debts will be paid in 8
installments at a rate of interest of 1.2% monthly.
21.   Reform of Tax Department: After some interruption in the strengthening process, the
program initiated with the support of the IDB and the Bank is being continued. Priority was given to
recovery of tax payers accounts, and revision of the Tax Code.
22.   Restructuring of the Cadastre: The Cadastre Department in February 1997 began defming
the basic unit values to update property valuations. In parallel, we are planning to advance with the
aerometric assessment, cartography and census. This project will bring about 10 million square meters
of property tax base which means an increase of 50% without taking account the updating of values.
23.   Both the measures taken and those to be taken, will raise provincial tax revenues even before
the impact of the subproject cadaster on collection levels. In addition, the improvement in the own-
source revenues will enable the province to advance in the elimination of distortionary taxes, notably
the tax on the payroll of the private sector.
b) Personnel Expenditures and Civil Service Reform.
24    Personnel expenditures in Tucuman represented 83% of net revenues in 1995. During 1997-
1999, the govermnent program includes a reconversion program to promote the change from public
sector to private sector, while improving the quality of public services.
25    The important aspects of the program are: outsourcing, voluntary retirement, programmed
retirement, and non-renewal of temporary contracts. The planned beginning of large private and
public works will provide work opportunities for employees who will be leaving the public
administration sector. In this way, we expect to minimize the social cost of the reform
26.   These measures will be followed by a new system of regulation of payments, which will allow
to detect existing errors in the payment of public employees and could reduce the wage bill by 5
percent.
27.   The provincial government intends to outsource services which are being now delivered by the
State but that could be undertaken by public employees in the form of private firms or cooperatives.
28.   The provincial government wants to reinforce the programs of voluntary and programmed
retirement offering public employees who want to leave a compensation package which will provide
either some capital for those willing to initiate their own privite businesses or a cushion while waiting
to re-enter in the labor market.



Annex H: Tucuman 76
29.   At the same time, the province plans to increase the wages of key personnel who have an
important role in the functioning of government. This would allow the province to require more
professionalism, higher productivity, and retaining good professionals. This measure will be financed
by the savings obtained by the above measures.
(c) Rationalizing Public Expenditure
30     The government will continue the policy of not subsidizing public enterprises (now mostly
privatized) and will ensure that public spending will be oriented to priority sectors with strict criteria
for economic and financial justification.
31.    Capital expenditures will increase from $101 million (9% of total expenditures) in 1996 to
$149 million in 1999. Half will be Financed by the provincial public savings. The remaining will be
financed by earmarked transfers from the center. The planned level of investment expenditures would
be reduced to the extent that the anticipated financing sources do not materialize.
32.    The stock of debt will decline to 80% of the current revenues. New borrowing will be
exclusively designed to refinance old debt, finance amortization, or finance well justified projects.
33.    The Three year Public Expenditure Plan mirrors the priorities of the government, e.g. social
sectors (education, health), poverty alleviation, potable water and environment. The government is
committed to increase the education share to 30% of the budget. All investment projects to be
undertaken during 1997-99 will have adequate justification, with the ERR of at least 10%.
34.   To improve the participation of the private sector and the transparency of the public sector, the
government will revise and propose to the Legislature a reform of the state contracting law (licitacion
para la contrataci6n de obras y serv,rcios publicos).
35.    To ensure the continuity of the process of transparency and budgetary accountability, the
government will propose to the Legislature a Financial Discipline Law based on four principles: (i)
balanced annual budgets with a current surplus -- no borrowing will be permitted to finance current
expenditures; (ii) annual external auditing by independent auditors; (iii) debt limits: new borrowing will
be limited to finance feasible and economic sound projects; (iv) limits in the debt stock below 80% of
recurrent revenues and personal costs below 65% of net cufrent revenues.
3.2 Education
36.    Education in the province of Tucuman faces multiple challenges. On the one hand, a significant
increase in educational demand is expected due to demographic growth and extension of compulsory
education from 6 to 10 years. On the other hand, there is a need to improve the efficiency and quality
of the education system, since Tucuman is now in 18th position among the Argentine provinces. In the
present budget, current spending accounts for 97% of the budget, limiting the allocation of resources to
investment. The provincial government is committed to improve this situation.
37.   The province has taken some measures, notably
* the creation of a Ministrv for Education
*  the definition of class organization (Plantafuncional) in Primary Education
* the diagnosis and design of the administrative reform and
* the adoption of a new leave system



77 Annex H: Tucuman
38.   During 1997-99, the government program includes five components aiming at generating
savings which will finance the extension of primary education in line with the new Federal Education
Law. In this context, the savings will finance, in the first place, the equipment, maintenance and
expansion of school infrastructure; teaching training as required by the new curricula; and programs
aimed at reducing repetition and dropout rates. Secondly, the savings will allow the new Ministry of
Education to strengthen its capacity to manage, promote and regulate educational policies and
strategies. It is expected that the share of personnel costs will drop to 87% of the education budget and
that 13% could be allocated to investment and non-personnel inputs, allowing the province to get closer
to international standards.
39.   The objectives of those programs include: (i) improving the administration of the educational
sector; (ii) increasing educational efficiency; (iii) decentralizing educational institutions, especially
secondary schools; (iv) promoting the development of the private sector; and (v) restructuring of the
teacher training institutes.
a) Improvement in the administration of the sector. The government will implement a
system of global administration which will reduce sick leave as well as absenteeism. An
estimated $10 million savings could be used to improve the technical level of the personnel
both administrative and directors.
b) Increase the efficiency of the primary education: The rearrangement of the functional
plant and school consolidation would produce significant savings that will be used to
finance infrastructure -- associated with consolidated or expansion of some schools, as
well as for the extension of primary education to nine-years (EGB III).
c) The decentralization of schools will take place through one pilot program of 30
secondary schools (out of 142). This will allow to test and better understand the concept
of school autonomy -- included in the future Provincial Education law -- whereby
resources are allocated to schools on a per-student basis, including incentives to improve
quality and cut repetition and dropout rates. The potential savings in the secondary
education will be used to increase in quality and enrollment at this level.
d) Development of the private sector: the government's policy aims at replacing the existing
teacher-based subsidy system by a Competitive Fund which will assign the resources
based on per-student based formula, and will promote newv capacities and improve
education quality. A student-based formula would allow us to increase the number of
private schools that could benefit from these subsidies or generate savings to finance
programs to improve education quality
e) Conversion of the Teacher Training Institutes: The provincial government is aware that
the reconversion of teacher training is a priority in implementing the Federal Education
law. To reach this objective, the government will modify the enrollment system in 1998 in
all public institutes as well as those that are public with private management, and will
implement a system of acreditation which will regulate the functioning of these schools and
their number in line with the demand. In the future, teaching training (continuing
education) will be contracted out to universities and privaLte teacher training schools.
40.   Monitoring System. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services rendered
to the community, the government of Tucuman will use a system of indicators discussed with the



Annex H: Tucuman 78
Bank. These include the way how the reform unfolds and the long-run impact in the education quality
and school coverage.
3.3 Health
41.   The government is committed to restructure the sector as a key factor to irnprove quality of the
services. The ingredients of the reform include: (a) changes in the financing system and targeting the
subsidies to the poor in a context of a constant sector budget (in real terms); (b) introducing a new
payment system to be used by financing agents to contract out services with public and private
providers; and (c) a greater administrative and financial decentralization.
43    In particular, the government has the following key areas of intervention:
X Autonomous Hospitals: the government will create at least 5 autonomous hospitals (all of
level IX) with corresponcding administrative and financial decentralization, financed by the
sale of services to public and private Funds and insurance and with a legislation which will
allow a flexible contracting of human resources. The first three autonomous hospitals will
be operational at the end of 1997 and the other two by the end of 1998.
*  Coverage of the Medical Program  to cover 100% of those not insured, through a new
Provincial Health Fund, which will outsource services to third parties. In this way the
public subsidy will subsidize demand through the creation of a Provincial Health Fund.
This medical program should be in place in 1999.
*  Introduction of a new payment system based on a basic service-package and capitation
formula to be used in the autonomous hospitals.
*  Restructuring of the Obra Social Provincial with the objective of offering an
institutional alternative to the workers and guaranteeing the efficiency in the provision of
insurance and the purchase of the services. This restructuring should begin in 1998.
a  Restructuring of the central level of SIPROSA. With the creation of autonomous
hospitals, and the separation of public health provision from financing and the creation of
the Provincial Health F'und, SIPROSA will shift from its role of executive agent to one or
supervision, regulation and provision of public goods of especial concern, such prevention
of endemic diseases, infant and maternal mortality, etc..  The restructuring would be
concluded at the beginning of 1999.
43.   Intervention in these areas will lead to:
*  a change in 13% of the wage bill, in addition to the policy reforms mentioned elsewhere in
this letter which will bring additional savings from outsourcing supporting services;
*  increased cost-recovery capacity through better billing and collection mechanisms (from
Obras Sociales Nacionales and Provinciales and private insurance);
*  the introduction of a new incentive system which will mcrease efficiency and transparency
of transactions in the health system and
*  outsourcing as a mechanism of contracting general services.
44.   Monitoring System. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services rendered
to the community, the government of Tucuman will use a system of indicators discussed with the Bank
(table H6). which will enable the government to monitor the progress and results of the reforms.



79 Annex H: Tucuman
45.   Financial needs. To support the reform, the sector would need the following assistance: US$
35 million to rehabilitate the infrastructure and equipment of the hospital network; (b) US$ 8.3 million
to strengthen the Provincial Health Fund in infonnation technology, census, and identification of users
and improvement of physical conditions; and US$ 5 million in technical assistance to support the
creation of autonomous hospitals and the restructuring of the provincial health system.
46.   Part of these costs will be financed by the provincial government, PRESSAL I and II (under
consideration), the Projects Provincias I and II, PROMIN and own sources.
4. Impact of the Reform Program in Environment
47.   Given the nature of the reform program, its implementation should have no negative impact on
the environment. However, the province will undertake environmental audits for the hospitals included
in par. 42, financed by the technical assistance of PRESSAL and before the transformation of the
Autonomous Public Hospitals. The terms of reference, the proposed consultant, and his/her report will
need to be satisfactory to the Bank. The recommendations will be included in the contracts of
transference and of constitution of the Autonomous Public Hospitals.. The government is fully
committed to environment protection and is obliged to review and revise the legal and institutional
framework -- which includes the government agency in charge of thLe environmental control - of the
management of the hospital and its pathological waste. The government is committed to implement the
improvements in the legal and institutional framework which will be needed, in agreement with the
normal rules and standards, accepted in the Argentine Republic, to ensure the adequate collection,
transport, treatment and final deposit of pathological waste.
5. Letter of Provincial Reform of Salta
48.   In line with the above, the provincial government agrees that the National Government
includes, in the Loan Agreement to be signed with the World Bank, one Annex with the details on the
objectives considered in the Provincial Development Letter and referred to in the Policy Matrix
attached
6. Justification for the request of World Bank Assistance
49.   Three reasons justify the importance our provincial government gives to the support of the
World Bank. First, I would like to mention the importance of the financial support which will allow the
financing of the adjustment costs and priority outlays. Second, I would mention the technical and
professional support received from your staff. Third, the fact that the bank is supporting our program
of reform gives us the confidence on the quality of our own program and will help us to attract the
private investors of Argentina and other countries.
Sincerely,
Dr. Antonio Bussi
Governor



Annex H: Tucuman 80
Table HI: Tucuman, Fiscal Indicators - 1995-1999
(Million Pesos)
Projected
1995       1996     1997    1998    1999
Current Revenues               692        746      841      920      991
of which own-source revenues   160        179      226      259      277
Current Expenditures           882        850      809      817      851
Publhc Savmgs                  -190       -104      32      103      140
Overall Deficit               -186        -106      1       52       87
Debt (d)                       651        853       852     800      725
Indicators
Personnel as % Cur Net. Rev    83%        79%       68%     61%      57%
Public Savmgs as % Revenues    -27%       -14%      4%      11%      14%
Debt Stock as% Revenues        94%        114%      101%    87%      73%
Table ]12: Expenditures in Education
(Million Pesos)
1995      1996     1997     1998      1999
Expend in Education          285.7     269.1    276.9    295.0    310.0
Personnel                   237.7     226.6    224.6   220.0    230.0
Goods and Services           2.0       2.2       4.4      7.0      6.0
Capital                     0.0        0.1      1.1      90       11.0
Investment                  7 3       5.1       9.1     21.0      23.0
Transf. for Private sectDr  38.6      33.7     37.8     38.0      40.0
Students (thous)             278.8     292.6    313 8    337.2    361.3
Cost per student (pesos.     1024       995      882      863
In Percentage
Persormel                   96.2       96.3     93.9     85.6     85.1
hivestment                   2.9       2.2      3.8      8.2       8.5
% of Public Spending        28.0       27.2     26.4      28%     30%
Per capita educat (US$)      234        219      222      233       241
Table 113: Public Expenditure in Health
1995     1996      1997      1998       1999
Expend. in health en (US$M)      133.1    136,1    136,4      136,4       136,4
Secretaria de Health              94       98       98,3      98,4        98,3
Personal                         76       79,6     65,9       64,2       63,2
Goods and Services               18        16       22
Capital Exp.                    0,6       1,5      2,0        2,0        2,0
Per Memoir.
Hospitals & CAPS (SIPROSA)      93,9     97,1      97,2      97,2       97,2
Transfers para IPS             nIa.      38,1      38,1      38,1       38,1
As percentage del total
Personal(w/o IPS)                81        82      67,8       66,0        65
Investments (w/o IPS)           0,6       1,5      2,0        2,0        2,0
Hospitals                       70,5     71,0      71,2      71,2       71,2
% Total Public Expend            13,0     14,3      13,6      14,2       13,6
Per capita Public Expend (pesos)    110    111       109       107        106
* Actual figures for 1995 and 1996. Budgeted for 1997.



81 Annex H: Tucuman
Annex H4
Tucuman - Programa de Public Expenditure
(Miles de Pesos)
1995       1996        1997        1998       1999
Total Expenditure      1,024       951         965         940        980
Current               882         850        861         806         831
Personnel             509         499        502         510         507
Capital               142         96         104         114         123
By sector
1. General
2. Social Sectors
Education            286         288        277         295        310
Health               133         136        136         136         136
Housing              48          42          47
Welfare              82          45          53
Financing of Capital
Expenditures
Current Savings        -190        -61          89         125        180
Earmarked Resources     70          S1          60         64          67
Other
Total Expenditure       100        100         100         100        100
Current               86          89          89         86          85
Personnel              50         52          52          54         52
Capital                14         10          11          12         13
By sector               100        100         100         100        100
1 General              15          16          17
2. Social Sectors       50         44          46
Education            28          27          26         28          30
Health               13          14         13.6        14.2       13.6
Housing               5           4          5
Welfare               8           4          5



Annex H: Tucuman 82
Table H5: ]EDUCATION: MONITORING INDICATORS
Objetives                           Indicators
Management of Education Sector      e   Percentage of Personnel costs m total budget m education .%
I. Improve Administration of Human   e   Percentage of absenteeism  (from  10% to 15%  ) - in the central
Resources                               administration
Percentage of substitutes (from 10% to 12%)
_
IL. Increase Educational Efficiency  *   Percentage of sections with a student:teacher = 19 a 1.
*   Percentage of investment in EGBIII and polimodal m total educational
budget.
e Number of teaching hours in secondary education
Increase m capacity installed in the EGB m  & pollmodal level
(enrollment and number of additional schools).
m. Decentralize Educational         a   Percentage of schools and enrollments in the secondary level included
Institutions                            in the pilot.
* Cost per capita m secondary schools
IV Encourage Development of the     a   Percentage of schools that abide by the norm
Pnvate Sector                           Percentage of enrollment in the pnvate system
* Percentage of additional enrollment in schools under the new system
V. Convert the Teacher Training         Number of higher education institutes closed
Institutes                              Percentage of reduction in budget due to closure of the higher
education mstitutes (teacher traming and tecmcature).
Table HL6: HEALTH: MONITORING IDICATORS
Process Indicators                                  Results Indicators
1. Self-Management:                       1. Targeting the subsidies
*   % participation of autonomous hospitals *   % Population without coverage covered by the Health Secretary
in consultations and total expenditures    *   % subsides oriented to the poor (*)
*   Revenues collected from the OSP and the
OSN as % of total expenditures
*
2 Payment System:                         2. Service quality.
*   %  of payments by the new  system  *   Average waiting timne between recommendation and actual surgery
(contracts) in total expenditures         in the autonomous hospitals
*   other average waiting time (entry m hospital to surgery ) m
(HPA).
*   Rate of infections inter-hospital in BPA
*   Mortality rate inter-hospital in BPA
a
3. Human Resources                        3 Efficiency of Health Secretary
*   % personnel of total expenditures    *   Percentage of bed occupation
*   % personnel of services and maintenance *   Average days of hospital stay
which chooses outsourcing            *   % in personnel with respect to total expenditures
*   expenditures/personnel
*   office visits/personnel
(*) It is possible to compute this on the services rendered to patients in a sample of hospitals in two points in time (1997
e1999)






ANNEX I
TUCUMAN
POLICY MATRIX






Annex I: Tucuman 83
ANNEX I
:Second Provincial Reform Loan
Tucuman -Policy Matrix
Activity                   Accomplished                                Second Tranche
General Condition  Legal opuinon confiming the constitutionality of
the reforms mcluded in the program and
conditions of tranche disbursement
PUBLIC FINANCE
Fiscal Balance,   Agreement on targets for the program       Three-month current Account Surplus at least at $10
million equivalent
Reduction in      Entry into effect of the new public employee  Personnel Cost is equal to no more than 65% of net
Personnel Cost    retirement system (as part of the implementation  current revenues
and Conversion of  of the program to restructure public      Number of pubhc sector employees (temporary and
public            employment)                                permanent, excludmg education and health) is
Employment        Implementation of planned reduction of 1,000    limited to 20,000
central administration employees (compared
with 1996) through outsourcmg of peripheral
services, voluntary or planned retirement and
restructuring of temporary staff
Debt Stock        Agreement on overalI decline of debt       Debt stock is equal to or less than 90% of current
revenues
Sought legislative enactment of Law of Financial
Discipline as mentioned in the LPR
Public            Agreement on compDsition of program and    Review of the PEP is satisfactory to the Bank
Expenditure       structure of social sectors expenditure consistent
Program until     with the objective of the program and is included  External auditing of the Provrncal Public Accounts;
1999)            in the Letter of Provmcial Reform          public disclosure of audit reports
EDUCATION POLICY REFORM
hnprove           Issuance of decree rationalizing the pay and  Implementation of new leave system to rationalize
Administration of  benefits of public sector teachers on leave  the pay and benefits of the educators who are on
Human             Obtained legislative authornzation to outsource   leave.
Resources        the control of public teachers sick leave (Decree
1477) and prepared the invitation for bids  Inplementation of new structures -plantas
Draft of new school structures (planta orgamco    organico-funcionales
fumcional)
Management of    Agreement on the budget for the sector and  Sought legislative authorization for annual budgets
Sector            multi-year program                         at the real 1996 level or at least $280 million
equivalent, whichever is higher
Personnel cost is equal to no more than 90% of the
Iprovincial education budget



84 Annex I: Tucuman
ANNEX I
Second Provincial Reform Loan
Tucuman -Policy Matrix
Activity                    Accomplished                                Second Tranche
Sought legislative authorization so that savings in
personnel costs applied to non-personnel items;
budgeted amounts may be preserved and will not be
transferred to other sectors.
Private Sector    Prepare new formula-based subsidies and     Put into e fect new system of subsidies to private
participation     implementation plan                         school by provincial decree.
Conversion of     Restructuring study prepared and study on  Reconversion plan started.
Teacher Training   budgetary impact has been contracted out
Institutes
BEALTH REFORM COMPONENT
Sector Budget     Agreement to protect the budget of the Health  Personnel cost share is 80%
Sector during the refonn process (including
IPSS, SIPROSA and capital requirements).   Sought legislative authorization for annual sector
Project of 1997 health budget is guaranteed at    budget equal to at least 1996 levels and to allow
least the 1996 level                       savings in personnel spending to be used on non-
Personnel share in health spending is no more    personnel items, including incentives to staff in the
than 82%.                                  autonomous hospitals
Autonomous        Law defining the autonomous hospitals and  Five hospitals are made autonomous.
Hospitals         calendar for implementation
New payment system is implemented in the HPA.
Identification of a) at least five hospitals to be
converted into self-administered hospitales
pubicos de autogestion and b) hospital services
to be outsourced.
Provincial Health  Agreement to focus the public subsidies, now  EstablishmLent of a provincial health fimd (Instituo
Fund for poor     oriented to finance SIPROSA, to the poor   de Seguro Provincial) to provide coverage for a
people            population.                                basic health care package to all indigent residents of
the Province who are unable to pay for health care
through any other means; maintaining and updating
a roster to identify all potential beneficiaries of the
fund.
Obras Sociales    Begin census of beneficiaries of OSP, including   The province installs and implements an improved
Provinciales      the beneficiaries of the IPSS               information system to records on OSP beneficiaries;
Plan to improve structure of OSP           implements a policy allowing beneficiaries to choose
in which obra social to become members.
New budget procedure allows revenue sharng funds
("fondos coparticipados") from the Province to
provincial public entities to be made available
directly to OSP
Personnel         SIPROSA staff lumited to 6,700.             SIPROSA permanent and temporary staff limited to
Design of incentives scheme to apply to the  6,250; wage bill in the SIPROSA budget does not
autonomous hospitals staff.                exceed 700%.
Apply savings in personnel costs to finance these  Incentive scheme applied in the autonomous
incentives.                                hospitals.



ANNEX J
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS






MOP Schedule D
Generated: July 29, 1997
Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original Amount in US$ Millions                      Between actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                 and expected
Project ID  Credit No.   Year              Borrower                   Purpose            IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Disbursements a/
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 54
AR-PE-5968   L28540        1987   SEGBA                        SEGBA V                      276.00        0.00            0.00         68.45               68.45
AR-PE-6009   L32970        1991   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA    AG SERVCES&INST DEV             33.50       0.00             0.00          4.28                2.78
AR-PE-5977   L32810        1991  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC            WTPR SUPPLY II               100.00       0.00             0.00         69.40               62.20
AR-PE-6005   L32800        1991   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA        PROVINC DEV PROJ             200.00       0.00             0.00         47.29               47.29
AR-PE-6003   L36110        1993   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA    RD MAINT & REHAB SCT           340.00        0.00            0.00        153.23              120.03
AR-PE-6051   L35210        1993  ARGENTINA                     FLOOD REHABILITATION         170.00       0.00             0.00          6.19                6.19
AR-PE-6036   L35200        1993   GOVENNMENI                   YACYRETA II                  300.00       0.00            0Q00           3-28                3.28
AR-PE-6062   L37100        1994  MIN OF ECONOMY                CAPITAL MKT TA                 8.50       0.00             0.00          5.50                4.40
AR-PE-6025   L36430        1994   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA    MTNAL CHILD HLTH & N           100.00        0.00            0.00         48.22               24.52
AR-PE-6018   L38770        1995  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC            PROV DEVT II                 225.00       0.00             0.00        221.50               21.50
AR-PE-6060   L38600        1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA            MUNIC DEVT II                210.00        0.00            0.00        197.30               -4.20
AR-PE-5992   L37940        1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA    SECONDARY ED I                 190.00        0.00            0.00        171.78              108.88
AR-PE-45687  L40040        1996  REP. OF ARGRNTINA             H.INSURANCE TA                25.00        0.00            0.00         16.45                -.15
AR-PE-40909  L40030        1996  REP. OF ARGENTINA             H. INSURANCE REFORM          100.00        0.00            0.00        100.00                0.00
AR-PE-6057   L39710        1996   GOV'T OF ARGENTINA           SECNDARY ED 2                115.50        0.00            0.00        115.50               26.20
AR-PE-38883  L39600        1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA        ENT.EXPORT DV.                38.50        0.00            0.00         34.45               20.45
AR-PE-37049  L39580        1996   GOVT OF ARGENTINA            PUB.INV.STRENGTHG             16.00        0.00            0.00         15.50                5.90
AR-PE-35495  L39570        1996   SEC.OF SOC.DEVIT (OFFICE   SOCIAL PROTECTION              152.00        0.00            0.00         24.00                9.50
AR-PE-6040   L39480        1996   GOVERNMENT                   FORESTRY/DV                   16.00        0.00            0.00         15.36                 .56
AR-PE-6030   L39310        1996   REPUB OF ARGENTINA           PROVCL HLTH SCTR DEV         101.40       0.00             0.00         96.43               20.23
AR-PE-6055   L39270        1996   GOVT. OF ARGENTINA           MINING SCTR DEVT              30.00        0.00            0.00         20.00                1.70
AR-PE-40904  L39260        1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA        BANK REFORM                  500.00        0.00            0.00        166.00              166.00
AR-PE-34091  L39210        1996   REP OF ARGENTINA             HIGHER ED REFORM             165.00        0.00            0.00        153.05               58.05
AR-PE-49268  L41950        1997  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC            SOC.PROTECT.2                200.00        0.00            0.00        200.00                0.00
AR-PE-43418  L41680        1997   REPUBLIC OF ARG              AIDS PREV.&STD CTRL           15.00        0.00            0.00         15.00                 .75
AR-PE-6059   L41640        1997  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC            MTL.CHD.HTH.2                100.00        0.00            0.00        100.00                0.00
AR-PE-39584  L41630        1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA            B.A.URB.TSP                  200.00        0.00            0.00        200.00                0.00
AR-PE-6010   L41500        1997   GOA                          PROV AG DEVT I               125.00        0.00            0.00        125.00                0.00
AR-PE-46821  L41310        1997  GOVT.OF ARG                   PENSION TA                    20.00        0.00            0.00         20.00                2.35
AR-PE-6052   L41170        1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA            FLOOD PROTECTION             200.00        0.00            0.00        200.00                0.00
AR-PE-44445  L41160        1997   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA        PROV.PENSION1                300.00        0.00            0.00         75.00                0.00
AR-PE-5980   L40930        1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA            PROV ROADS                   300.00        0.00            0.00        300.00               12.00
AR-PE-40808  L40850        1997   GOA                          N.FOREST/PROTC                19.50        0.00            0.00         19.50                0.00
AR-PE-6041   L42120        1998   GOVERNMENT                   SMALL FARMER DV.              75.00        0.00            0.00        125.00                0.00
Total                                                                                     4,966.90        0.00            0.00      3,132.66
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              1,884.24            6,639.44            8,523.68
of which has been repaid:                166.55            2,886.81            3,053.36
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              4,800.35            3,856.41            8,656.76
Amount sold                                       0.00               12.79               12.79
Of which repaid             :                  0.00               12.79              12.79
Total Undisbursed              :              3,132.66              103.78           3,236.44
Generated by the Operations hIfornation System (OIS)                                                                                                             Page 1



MOP Schedule D
Generated: July 29, 1997
a   Devaassements prevus moms d&canments effectii A cette date, comme projetAs au temps de l6valuato
Note
Les donnmes de d6camssement sont acualais6s a la fi de la premine semame du mois
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                                     Page 2



ANNEX K
STA1'US OF IFC INVESTMENTS






MOP Schedule D
Generated: July 29, 1997
Argentina
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Jun-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                     Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval           Company          Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1960/95/97           Acindar               38.75    0.00   25.00   17.78   13.75    0.00   25.00   17.78
1977/84/86188/94/96  Alpargatas            25.38    6.05    6.37   93.43   20.38    6.05    6.37   79.93
1978/81/86/87/91/93/96   Minetti           12.71    0.00   10.00   32.56    6.81    0.00   10.00   14.86
1987                 BGN-TBR                 .18    0.00    0.00    0.00    .18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89              BGN-Bolland             .22    0.00    0.00    0.00    .22    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89              BGN-Flichman            .17    0.00    0.00    0.00    .17    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/89/90/96        Terminal 6             9.84    0.00    0.00    5.96    9.84    0.00    0.00    5.96
1987/92              BRLP                   9.64    0.00    0.00    1.27    2.11    0.00    0.00    1.27
1988/93              Bunge y Born           3.72    0.00    0.00   28.07    3.72    0.00    0.00   28.07
1989                 BGN-Algodonera          .27    0.00    0.00    0.00    .27    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 BGN-Ferrum              .83    0.00    0.00    0.00    .83    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 BGN-FRIGOTOBA           .13    0.00    0.00    0.00    .13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 BGN-Genaro              .68    0.00    0.00    0.00    .68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 BGN-Interpack           .25    0.00    0.00    0.00    .25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 BGN-Parafina            .63    0.00    0.00    0.00    .63    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 BGN-Willmor             .68    0.00    0.00    0.00    .68    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 ROB-COMESI              .28    0.00    0.00    0.00    .28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 ROB-Fracchia            .14    0.00    0.00    0.00    .14    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                 ROB-INTA                .28    0.00    0.00    0.00    .28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/96              Banco Frances         43.23    0.00    0.00    .86    6.94    0.00    0.00    .86
1990                 CIP                    0.00    .08    0.00    0.00    0.00    .08    0.00    0.00
1990/94              Petroken              21.82    0.00    5.00    4.80   21.82    0.00    5.00    4.80
1991                 BCA                     1.89    0.00    0.00    2.40    1.89    0.00    0.00    2.40
1991                 ROB-Alimenticia         .14    0.00    0.00    0.00    .14    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 ROB-Emprigas            .19    0.00    0.00    0.00    .19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 ROB-Guilford            .13    0.00    0.00    0.00    .13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 ROB-Interpack           .17    0.00    0.00    0.00    .17    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 ROB-Longvie             .34    0.00    0.00    0.00    .34    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                 ROB-Mendoza             .19    0.00    0.00    0.00    .19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992                 FEPSA                  10.25    0.00    0.00   11.20    8.05    0.00    0.00    8.80
1992                 Oleaginosa Oeste       6.87    0.00    5.00   10.27    6.87    0.00    5.00   10.27
1992                 Rioplatense            5.33    1.00    0.00    1.67    5.33    1.00    0.00    1.67
1992                 San Jorge              0.00   27.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93/96           Malteria Pampa         12.79    0.00    1.00   11.91   12.79    0.00    1.00   11.91
1992/95              Bridas                42.14   10.00   15.00   72.86   42.14   10.00   15.00   72.86
1993                 Argentina Equity       0.00    2.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.93    0.00    0.00
1993                 Cadipsa                8.57    0.00    5.00   10.40    8.57    0.00    5.00   10.40
1993                 Nuevo Central          6.88    3.00    0.00   11.25    6.88    3.00    0.00   11.25
1993                 Yacylec                8.80    5.04    0.00   31.84    8.80    5.04    0.00   31.84
1993/94              Molinos                0.00    5.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.55    0.00    0.00
1994                 Aceitera               15.00   10.00    0.00    0.00   15.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1994                 BGN                   12.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   12.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1994                 LBAR                   0.00    1.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    .64    0.00    0.00
1994                 LBAV                   0.00    3.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.62    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                            Page 1



MOP Schedule D
Generated: July 29, 1997
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                  Quilmes                11.86    0.00    0.00   10.00   11.86    0.00    0.00   10.00
1994/95               EDENOR                 19.50    0.00   15.00   88.33   19.50    0.00   15.00   88.33
1994/95/96            Aguas                 75.06    7.00    0.00  260.10   75.06    7.00    0.00  260.10
1994/95/97            La Maxima              0.00   14.39    4.00    0.00    0.00   12.29    3.96    0.00
1995                  Banco Roberts          0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00
1995                  CEPA                   12.33    0.00    0.00    3.60   12.33    0.00    0.00    3.60
1995                  Kleppe/Caldero         6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Mastellone            37.14    0.00    0.00   31.50   37.14    0.00    0.00   31.50
1995                  Nahuelsat             30.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   30.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  SanCor                20.00    0.00   20.00   27.00   20.00    0.00   20.00   27.00
1995                  Socma                 22.92    0.00    0.00   55.00   22.92    0.00    0.00   55.00
1995                  SIDECO                 0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Terminales Port.       9.50    2.00    0.00    0.00    8.50    2.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Tower Fund             0.00   16.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.36    0.00    0.00
1995                  Tower Fund Mgr         0.00     .14    0.00    0.00    0.00    .04    0.00    0.00
1996                  Banco Galicia         30.00    0.00    0.00  200.00   30.00    0.00    0.00  200.00
1996                  Bansud                25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Brahma - ARG           18.50    0.00    0.00   33.00   18.50    0.00    0.00   33.00
1996                  CAPSA                  12.00    0.00    5.00   33.00   12.00    0.00    5.00   33.00
1996                  Grunbaum               8.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    2.00    0.00
1996                  MBA                    0.00     .16    0.00    0.00    0.00     .16    0.00    0.00
1996                  Neuquen Basin          0.00   26.40    0.00    0.00    0.00   18.82    0.00    0.00
1996                  Refisan               20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1996                  Transconor            25.00    0.00   20.00  2'10.00   25.00    0.00   20.00  210.00
1996                  Zanon                  14.00    0.00    6.00    0.00   12.00    0.00    6.00    0.00
1997                  Guipeba                15.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Milkaut               10.00    0.00   10.00    5.00   10.00    0.00   10.00    5.00
1997                  Vicentin              25.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   25.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
Total Portfolio:                 748.32  161.94  182.37  1,345.  623.40  113.58  177.33  1,311.
06                             46
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eauity  Ouasi  F'artic
1996                  AGUAS III - INC        15.00    0.00    0.00   75.00
1997                  ARGIE MAE             35.00    .40    0.00   65.00
1997                  BANCO DEL SUQUIA    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1994                  EDENOR INCREASE        0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00
1996                  EDESUR II BLINC        0.00    0.00    0.00  108.00
1996                  EDESURREHAB           40.00    0.00    0.00   80.00
1998                  FAID                   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  FEPSA (II)             0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00
1997                  FRIAR                  10.00    0.00    2.50    7.00
1997                  KLEPPE II              6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  ROBERTS NOA CL        30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  TERMINAL 6            10.00    0.00    0.00   13.00
1997                  TGN II BLINC           0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1996                  TRANSCONOR II          5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  T61                    10.00    0.00    5.00  :30.00
Generated by the Operations Information System COTS)                                               Page 2



MOP Schedule D
Generated: July 29, 1997
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         161.00    5.40   17.50  400.00
Generated by the Operations Infonnation System (OIS)                                                  Page 3






ANNEX L
A]RGENTINA AT GLANCE






Argentina at a glance
Latin Upper-
POVERTY and SOClAL                                            America  middle-
Argentina  &Carlb.  income        Development diamond'
Ppulatfon mid-1995 (miJlk,ns)                          34.6      480       440
GNP per capita 198 (US$)                             7,770     3,300    4.30                  Life expectancy
GNP I995 fbilffons US$)                               268.8     1,584    1 t82
Average annual growth,i 1990-9S
Ptl'opulion ()                                          1.2       1.S       1.7     GNP                              Gross
LaborforcfI                                             2.0       2.4      2.1                                       Gry
per                             pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest 'earavawoabI sncoe 11189)                              capita                        enrollment
Povefty: hoadcount index f% orpoptation)                 26      
Utbat pputlation (% of total popudatIon)                a8         74       74
Life axpectalicy at birth (yearm)                        73        s8       g9
Iffaht morlalfty (per t 00D   1 biStl                    22        41       36                Access to safe water
Child talnutritlon (% oTChitdren under 5)                 5
Access to safe wabte (% ofpopulatiW)                     64        81       89
Illiteraey (% oipoplabon ap 15+)                          4        13       13                 Arntina
Gtoss pimay enrollment (% of shool-a  populakon)        107       110      107           -A      pentind       r
Maie                                    tGS         ..       ..~~~~10          Upper-rniddle-incomnegroup
Femala                                                107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS ard LONG-TERM TRENDS
1ST5     1985      1994     199S 3
GOP Ilions US3$)                               2A      88.4     2805    2ThQ        Economic ratioe
Gtcm domestil investmnentGDP                  29.4     17.6      199       17.$             Opennessofeconomy
Expertt of gooda and orntfactor serviosGl3DP   S.8     11.7       &a       8$
Gtoss domaic savfrnOGD                        293      23.1      17.6      18.0
Grocanationalf avigs1GDP                      269      16.5      18.      117.0
Current acowunt balance/GDP                   -25    -1.1       -3.3    4-8
interestpaytmriIs/GDP                          0O a      .0D       13       1 $     Savings                     Investment
Toal debt/GDP                                 14.7     57.3      2758    303
Total debtselvie/expots                      44.7     60.1      32.6     33.3 A                   v
Presen vaiueaof debVGDP                          ..              24A4
Prantval3te of dexpoa                                     ..    32S.                             Indebtedness
197S-84  1985-48     1994      1995   99g-04
(awrag# antraf growtf                                                                   -     Argentina
GO aP                                -t §      2.0      5.9       4        37                 Upper-mIddle-incore group
Exports Of gooda and                  8 S.1    59S     14.8      257       8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1985      1994     1995
(% of GDP)                                                                          Growth rates of output and Investmnent (%)
Agriculture                                    66       76        49                40 -
Industry                                      50.1     393       30 1               20..
Manufacturing                               38 2      29 6      20.02                                        .
Services                                      43.3     53 1      65.1                             91   92   93   94
Private consumption                           58.1     66.5      69.2     69.6      40
General government consumption                12 6     10.4      13.3      12.4                    GDI          GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services       60       6 3       92       8.7
1975-84  1985-95     1994      1995
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    1 7      1.6       3.8      2.1      80
Industry                                      -1.1      2 7       6.5     -6.0      60            9
Manufacturing                               -1 4       1 4       42      -6.5
Services                                       2 5      31        85       -3 4     40
20     ^          
Private consumption                              ..
General government consumption                                                       0 .  o    _                         " li
Gross domestic investment                     -2.4      5.4      19.0    -15 9      -20           91   92   93   94
Imports of goods and non-factor services       45      140       20.9    -10.6                    Exports       Iports
Gross national product                         0 0      3.4       69       -5.0
Note 1995 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the couintry (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26842
\$70°       aj BOLIVIA          /        60                                         50/
LX  -)  CB,               XARAGUA 
SSanaiags    Resistencia                                   BRAZIL
,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
San_   to (D det EsteroRos
j  t   ~~~~|ioa   (3 5S NTER GO                 \ 7       .
0  2 SA  N-I O J AL                SANFTE     0
U- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0
<     UAN                          S ^CRDB#anta FeENR7                     / /
SaJuans   1L t          Croaj        4L    }S                     
\ 3 Nequei.Parana'
z                  Mendz                       |Rsr          JX/p
LU       )                  S   110X                          U R U G U A 
400
0       |      /              US          BEOS A            I R       ESES
- CroincLa Plotunare
Uo IRost       BUENOSB                                        ri
0   AIRES         0      0    10       0    40    0
U                               LZ >-A              Mar del Plt 
\I   Neuquen¢
U   L U                                           A R G E N T I N A
Z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~KLMTR  0                       200     40       60        0
-40°                        NSJ11E GR O
Rio fs                                                   7 ma  0    Selsected Cities   c r             -
A           _ +                      0~~~~~~~~E   PraVinCe CCapital[s
denNationat Ci apita      n
2 :;? l          ~~~~RowsonS                         Provirnce BouJndatries
/    ;  CHUE UT                         -    Int:ernational Bouhdnrrs es
t  {          2                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MlLtS 0  1 00  200   300  400   S00O
9,) ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ h  Wol SAanA   Group. t
S A N T.- ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     tau   o    nytertoy
0  j t    CRUZ   )              K~~~~~~~~~~1tL0MeETR$ 0  2*0  400   600      ao4
t         g              ~~~~~~~FALKLAND iSLANL>S
rv ;7    l    W-             t~~~~MAIVtNwAS)
54egc                                       'The  bounAdaries, colorso    5
g  \         .     A O15F~~DISUTE CONCEPNIN*  SOY£rgSGNTt Of FR THE  oth fer information shown
\ A\ I~~~~~W1SLADSXWS= WWEtENt AAGtENIMA WUtl r LAIS on  thi7s s   do    not
k w  n ft~~~NI 7SO 50EkFlStS" AIJD 7TUE . t8R AOMJI,ITSYERS  tM  l, orX the  part of
< 6/ tt  7     fHgl~SL4~Nas ''                     Wor7fd  Bank  Group,
1 R   g  <                             ~~~~~~~~~~any juidgrnent on the legal
WC7tq  <  UL9                         ~~~~~~~sfatus of oany  territory,
.       (    r     s~~~~~~ EkkRA      .r ancrcept r,rce of such
DEL
so         FUEGO    6o0                          5o
APRIL 1995









IMAGING
Report No.: P      7136   AR
Type:     PR



