                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 29569

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (CPL-37500 SCL-3750A SCPD-3750S)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$368 MILLION EQUIVALENT

            TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.

               WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED STATES OF MEXICO

                                         FOR A

                      NORTHERN BORDER ENVIRONMENT PROJECT




                                       June 29, 2004




ESSD Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 29, 2003)

                               Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                                   1.00 Peso = US$ 0.10
                                   US$ 1.00 = 10.50 Pesos

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 - December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS       National Bank of Public Works and Services, or Banco Nacional de Obras y
               Servicios Públicos
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CNA            National Waster Commission, or Comisión Nacional de Agua
COATEA         Center of Orientation for Environmental Emergency Care, or Centro de
               Orientación para la Atención de Emergencias Ambientales
CONANP         National Commission for Protected Areas, or Comisión Nacional de Areas
               Naturales Protegidas
GOM            Government of Mexico
INE            National Institute for Ecology, or Instituto Nacional de Ecología
NAFTA          North America Free Trade Agreement
NBEP           Northern Border Environment Project
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
OASP           Project Analysis and Monitoring Office, or Oficina de Análisis y Seguimiento del
               Proyecto Ambiental de la Frontera Norte
PAM            Mexican Environment Project, or Proyecto Ambiental de México
PROFEPA        Office of the Attorney General for Environmental Protection, or Procuraduría
               Federal de Protección al Ambiente
PRONASOL       National Solidarity Program, or Programa Nacional de Solidaridad
SEDESOL        Secretariat of Social Development, or Secretaría de Desarrollo Social
SEMARNAP       Secretariat of Environment, or Secretaría de Medio Ambiente Recursos
               Naturales y Pesca
SEMARNAT       (reconstituted) Secretariat of Environment, or Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y
               Recursos Naturales
SHCP           Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit, or Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito
               Público
SIICAP         Cartographic Institutional Information System, or Sistema Institucional de
               Información Cartográfica de la PROFEPA
SIIE           Strategic Institutional Information System , or Sistema Institucional de
               Información Estratégica
SIIP           PROFEPA's Institutional Information System, or Sistema Institucional de
               Información de la PROFEPA

                             Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                          Country Director:      Isabel Guerrero
                           Sector Manager:       Abel Mejia
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Renan Alberto Poveda

                                              MEXICO
                      NORTHERN BORDER ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
   6. Sustainability                                                                18
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
   9. Partner Comments                                                              26
   10. Additional Information                                                       28
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
   Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                          39
   Annex 9. Detailed Description of Outputs by Component                            49
Map

Project ID: P007710                                                  Project Name: MX N. BORDER I ENVIRONM
Team Leader: Renan Alberto Poveda                                    TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MX N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-37500; SCL-3750A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3750S
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (45%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (28%); Central government administration (21%);
                            Sub-national government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Pollution management
                            and environmental health (P); Other urban development (P);
                            Biodiversity (P); Municipal governance and institution building (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/21/1993                                     Effective: 09/12/1994                06/21/1995
     Appraisal: 05/16/1994                                         MTR: 05/16/1997                  06/16/1997
      Approval: 06/09/1994                                      Closing: 09/30/2001                 09/29/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          National Bank of Public Works and Services (BANOBRAS)/Secretariat of Social
                                           Development (SEDESOL); National Bank of Public Works and Services
                                           (BANOBRAS)/Secretariat of Environment (SEMARNAP)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Division Chief: David de Ferranti & Resident
                                                                               Representative: Eugene McCarthy
Sector Director:                John Redwood                                   Edilberto Segura (Dept. Director)
Team Leader at ICR:             Renan Alberto Poveda                           Chuong Phung
ICR Primary Author:             Adrian Demayo; Renan A.
                                Poveda; Angela Armstrong;
                                Viviana Mourra; Dana Frye;
                                Kathryn Johns Swartz; Julio
                                Cordoba


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S

                                                 QAG (if available)            ICR
                               Quality at Entry:                               S
                    Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The objective of the Northern Border Environment Project (NBEP), as stated in the Loan Agreement,
    was "to improve environmental conditions in Mexico's Northern Border area by assisting the
    Guarantor, as well as States and Municipalities in the border area, in: (a) strengthening their
    environmental planning, management and enforcement capabilities; and (b) carrying out priority
    investments and action plans effectively and efficiently in order to preserve the environment, reverse
    past environmental degradation and reduce health risks from environmental contamination."
    For the first time, a Bank-financed project intended to help the Government of Mexico (GoM) address,
    in an integrated manner, a series of environmental issues and their root causes, by targeting a limited
    geographic area ­ Mexico's Northern Border region ­ defined as the 100 kilometer wide territory,
    south of the U.S. ­ Mexico border covering its entire length from the Pacific Ocean to the Gulf of
    Mexico. This project was designed to help Mexico meet its commitments under the Integrated Border
    Environmental Plan, an important consideration in the negotiations of the North America Free Trade
    Agreement (NAFTA). The project sought to address a variety of environmental issues such as: (i)
    domestic and industrial waste control and disposal; (ii) provision of drinking water; (iii) wastewater
    collection and treatment; (iv) air quality monitoring and management; (v) protection of vital ecological
    areas and biodiversity; and (vi) strengthening of environmental management, including enforcement of
    environmental legislation.

    It should be noted that this project was prepared in parallel with three other Bank-financed,
    environmentally related operations that covered the whole territory of Mexico, namely the Second Solid
    Waste Management Project (Loan 3752-ME, 1994), the Second Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
    Project (Loan 3751-ME, 1994), and the Medium-Size Cities Urban Transport Project (Loan 3559-ME,
    1993). Since the investment portion of the NBEP addressed the same sectors, but only in the Northern
    Border region, it adopted the same technical and financial criteria for sub-project eligibility used in
    these sectoral projects.

3.2 Revised Objective:
    This project was approved in June 1994 and became effective in June 1995. At about the same time,
    the peso was devalued, interest rates increased and the so-called "tequila crisis" ensued. As a result of
    this financial and economic crisis, and since other Bank-financed sectoral projects were already
    financing similar activities at a national scale (e.g., paving, solid waste management, water supply and
    sanitation), during July 1995-June 1996, the GoM requested a series of cancellations of the NBEP
    activities that could be financed by other projects. As a result, by the summer of 1996, a total of
    US$273.4 million had been cancelled from the loan, decreasing the loan amount from US$ 368.0 to
    US$ 94.6 million. The cancellation of portions of the NBEP loan, as well as the entire loan for the
    Solid Waste Management II Project, was necessary to free up fiscal space required for emergency
    loans to the country.

    In 1998, by Government request, the project objective was revised in an Amendment to the Loan
    Agreement, to reflect these changes and consolidate the numerous cancellations. The project's objective
    was revised as follows:



                                                      - 2 -

       "...to improve environmental and social conditions in the Border States by: (a) assisting the
       Guarantor, as well as Border States and their municipalities, in strengthening their environmental
       management capabilities, including their capabilities for enforcing environmental legislation and
       regulations; and (b) assisting the Border States and their municipalities in strengthening their
       administrative, financial and other management capabilities in such sectors as education, health
       and water supply and sanitation, so as to improve effectiveness and efficiency in such sectors."

    Thus, the revised objective focused on providing technical assistance and strengthening the institutional
    capacity of Border States, while canceling investment and core infrastructure activities.

3.3 Original Components:
    Total project costs were estimated at US$ 762.0 million (comprising US$ 368.0 million IBRD Loan
    and a government contribution of US$ 394.0 million). The project's original components included:

    A. Institutional Strengthening (US$ 172.0 million) with the aim of: (a) improving the capacity of
       federal, state, and municipal authorities for more effective environmental management; and (b)
       strengthening the planning and preparation of future projects. Subcomponents included:

   Ø        Strengthening the institutional capacity of PROFEPA (Office of the Attorney General for
            Environmental Protection), the Federal agency responsible for the enforcement of
            environmental legislation at the national level. PROFEPA, a relatively new agency at the time,
            needed significant support to increase its enforcement capacity , and thus ensure the
            effectiveness of current and future environmental legislation. This support was also intended to
            develop complementary instruments, such as voluntary environmental audit programs, and to
            provide the necessary stimuli for the industrial and other sectors of the Mexican economy to
            include environmental management systems as part of their core business activities. In order to
            not create inequalities by strengthening only the PROFEPA offices located in the Northern
            Border region, it was agreed that this component would build the capacity of PROFEPA at a
            national level.

            The activities to be financed under this subcomponent included: (i) development and
            implementation of a national environmental audit program; (ii) studies to identify and
            characterize contaminated abandoned sites; (iii) augmented risk-based inspection programs;
            (iv) development and implementation of a public grievance system; (v) acquisition of office,
            field and laboratory equipment; (vi) recruitment of new technical staff, including inspectors
            and environmental lawyers; (vii) development and implementation of computerized information
            systems; and (viii) an extensive training program targeting representatives from state and
            municipal agencies, as well as from the private sector, academia and NGOs.

    Ø       Strengthening the institutional capacity of States and Municipalities in the border area by
            providing support in: (i) the preparation of environmental regulations and standards; (ii) the
            acquisition of office, field and laboratory equipment; and (iii) the training and carrying out of
            studies related to environmental management. The subcomponent also included a Finance and
            Administration program to improve the administrative efficiency and financial management of
            the northern border municipal governments by, for example, establishing and operating an
            integrated public investment system for each state in the border area. This subcomponent also
            sought to improve: (i) state accounting systems; (ii) municipal administration of taxation,
            capital and recurrent expenditures; and (iii) cost control and recovery practices. Furthermore,



                                                     - 3 -

       the subcomponent supported personnel development activities and improvements in the public
       works practices of municipalities in the border area.

Ø      Strengthening the capacity of BANOBRAS, INE (National Institute for Ecology) and
       SEDESOL by providing technical assistance, computer equipment, additional professional
       staff, and--due to the relatively large number of sectors and implementing agencies included in
       the project--establishing a group within SEDESOL, the Project Analysis and Monitoring
       Office (Oficina de Análisis y Seguimiento del Proyecto - OASP), to supervise and monitor the
       project's implementation.


B. Hazardous Waste Management (US$ 15.0 million) to address industrial pollution and the
   management of hazardous waste in the border area, and to lay the foundations for further
   improvements in hazardous waste management by:

Ø      Providing: (i) support for the development of a nationwide hazardous waste management
       strategy; and (ii) grants to small and medium-size industries to cover a portion of the costs
       incurred in carrying out environmental audits and in implementing, on a pilot basis, the
       resulting action plans.

Ø      Carrying out a feasibility study for a mobile hazardous waste processing program (e.g.,
       truck-based) and based on the findings of this study, if deemed beneficial, implementation of a
       pilot project followed by a full-scale program.

C. Protection of Biodiversity and Endangered Species along the Mexico ­ U.S. border (US$
   15.0 million). This component was intended to support the conservation of critical habitats and
   strengthening of national, selected protected areas in the border region by:

Ø      Financing: (i) basic infrastructure investments in protected areas; (ii) equipment and
       specialized vehicles; (iii) incremental operating expenditures; (iv) demarcation of protected
       areas; (v) preparation of detailed management plans for the selected protected areas; and (vi)
       preparation of a corresponding operating plan for each protected area.

Ø      Carrying out: (i) studies on conservation methods with respect to endemic, rare, threatened,
       endangered and/or migratory plant and animal species of the border area; (ii) acquisition of
       equipment and development of works to protect habitats of endangered or rare species; (iii)
       studies on the identification of selected ecological areas in the border area suitable for legal
       protection; (iv) preparation and issuance of decrees giving protected status to selected areas;
       (v) preparation of emergency plans, as deemed necessary; and (vi) financial sustainability
       assessments of these areas.

Ø      Providing training and capacity building to INE's personnel and other Mexican
       environmental professionals on conservation and protected area management techniques.

D. Street Paving (US$ 344.0 million).            This component sought to (i) pave and improve
  approximately 240 kilometers of unpaved streets; (ii) carry out complementary related road works
  in the northern border urban areas; and (iii) monitor the environmental benefits of paving and road
  improvements (such as the reduction of dust and particulate matter in the air).




                                                - 4 -

   E. Infrastructure Investment Lines of Credit (US$ 216.0 million) consisting of unsubsidized lines
         of credit to be available for subprojects in five or six qualifying border cities to finance their most
         urgent environmental infrastructure needs according to predefined criteria being used in three
         Bank-financed sectoral programs: (i) the Second Water Supply and Sanitation Project; (ii) the
         Second Solid Waste Management Project; and (iii) the Medium-Size Cities Urban Transport
         Project.

3.4 Revised Components:
    As mentioned above in section 3.2, the 1998 Amendment to the Loan Agreement reflected the revisions
    and cancellations to the original components.              This restructuring was mainly due to the
    financial/economic crisis and subsequent cancellations of portions of the loan. Also, since the Water
    Supply and Sanitation II and the Medium-Size Cities Urban Transport Projects both had available
    funds to finance water supply, sanitation, solid waste management, and road maintenance investments
    and were designed to encompass a national scope, rather than a specific region, the Bank was in
    agreement with the cancellation of: Component B. Hazardous Waste Management; (ii) Component D.
    Street Paving; and (iii) Component E. Infrastructure Investment Lines of Credit. This allowed the
    country some latitude on its debt without compromising the overall objectives they were working
    toward.

    Part of these cancellations included the funding allocated to the mobile hazardous waste processing
    program. The decision to cancel this part of the loan was based on the results of a feasibility study
    sponsored by SHCP and SEDESOL in mid-1997 that demonstrated that there was already sufficient
    existing capacity for the final disposal of hazardous wastes on both sides of the border to make such a
    program economically viable without additional financing from the project.

    To bring expected disbursements in line with its budgetary constraints, the GoM requested further
    cancellations in October 1999, July 2000 and December 2001 totaling approximately US$54.6 million.
    In addition, the loan closing date was extended by two years, to September 29, 2003.

    In early 2001, at the outset of President Fox's term, an internal reorganization of the Environment
    Secretariat (from SEMARNAP to SEMARNAT) transferred implementation responsibility for the
    strengthening of the state and municipal environmental agencies activities from INE to the Regional
    and Sectoral Environmental Unit (Dirección General de Política Ambiental e Integración Regional y
    Sectorial, DGPAIRS), under the Planning and Policy Sub-secretariat (Sub-Secretaría de Planeación y
    Política Ambiental, SSPPA) of the "new" Secretariat of Environment (Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y
    Recursos Naturales, SEMARNAT).

    Thus, from 1998 to the project's closing date, project resources supported technical assistance and
    institutional strengthening activities (i.e., consolidating and improving the performance of PROFEPA,
    INE, and SEMARNAT, environmental management agencies in the Northern Border states and
    municipalities, and in the designated protected areas in the Northern Border zone). Responding to
    concerns expressed by state environmental agencies that institutional strengthening activities only
    covered a certain portion of those states that were part of the Northern Border zone, the 1998
    Amendment to the Loan Agreement allowed for the financing of activities covering the whole state
    territory. Under this amendment, the State of Nuevo Leon was also added as a beneficiary of the loan.
    Nuevo Leon originally had not been included in the project due to the small length of its border with the
    U.S. and the absence of any large municipality in what was defined as the border area. This support
    proved beneficial to the State of Nuevo Leon since the state's environmental agency was able to
    undertake a series of successful programs, such as a vehicle emission inspection system and water


                                                      - 5 -

    quality monitoring and information systems that have made the state a leader in environmental
    protection at the national level.

    At closing, the loan disbursed US$35.1 million or 9.53 percent of the original appraisal amount (see
    Table 1 below).

    Table 1: Original IBRD Financing, Revisions, and Actual Disbursements (in US$ million)
      Component                       Original      Revised        Actual Project               % Disbursed
                                     Allocation    Allocation      Disbursements            (of Original Allocation)
                                       (1994)        (1998)             (2003)

      A. Institutional                       85.5          27.9                  23.0                26.96
         Strengthening

      B. Hazardous Waste                     15.0           0.7                   0.7                 4.75
         Management

      C. Biodiversity and                      7.5          0.8                   0.8                10.69
         Endangered
         Species
         Protection

      D. Street Paving                       35.0           2.0                  2.0*                 5.82

      E. Infrastructure                     198.9           8.4                  8.4*                 4.26
         Investment

      Unallocated                            26.1

                   Total                    368.0          40.0                  35.1                 9.53

     * These expenditures correspond to retroactive financing provided for design and other preparatory
     activities carried out prior to appraisal.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    Consistency with the CAS. The project was consistent with the CAS (May 1994) by supporting
    multi-sectoral interventions within a specific region.       The project was also consistent with the
    Government's environmental priorities by focusing on the border with the United States and by
    providing an integrated approach to address environmental concerns in various sectors of the economy.
    While project design was technically sound and innovative based on the concept of an integrated
    multi-sectoral project in a defined geographical area, it proved to be ambitious, and unreasonable on
    the assumptions about external factors and potential risks.

    This approach had particular relevance, however, since the NBEP became, together with other
    investments in the northern border at the time, an important consideration in the negotiations of
    NAFTA among the GoM, the U.S. and Canada, where addressing environmental concerns represented
    a priority for the Mexican authorities. Recognizing the serious environmental problems in the Northern
    Border region and the NBEP's linkage to NAFTA's approval, the GoM gave a high priority to
    improving environmental conditions, particularly those associated with the growing maquiladora
    industrial sector. In light of the complexity of these issues, as well as the need to demonstrate that
    resources were being allocated to address them, the Bank's assistance, both in technical and financial
    terms, was considered as vital to the success of the NAFTA negotiations as well as to address these
    issues in a strategic and integrated manner.         Furthermore, the NBEP's decentralized approach
    incorporated lessons learned from the Bank-financed Mexico Environmental Project (PAM, Loan No.



                                                      - 6 -

3461-ME, 1993).

Lessons from experience. The following lessons derived from the Bank's experience in Mexico and
the region were taken into account during preparation:


    (a) Existence of an adequate legal, regulatory and institutional framework. Since Mexico
        already benefited from a good basic Environmental Law, the project focused on strengthening
        the institutional and legal framework at the federal, state, and municipal levels, since each play
        important and mutually dependent roles in developing and implementing environmental
        legislation and related policies.

     (b) Reliance on strong agencies to deliver environmental infrastructure services, particularly
        in the water sector. Eligibility criteria were established to ensure that only financially strong
        sector agencies would have access to funds for infrastructure investments under the project.

    (c) Competing sources of financing should be avoided.            This project followed the National
        Solidarity Program's (PRONASOL) matching grants system and had the same terms and
        conditions as the sectoral projects under preparation or recently approved in water supply and
        sanitation, solid waste management and urban transport. To avoid having the project compete
        with other available sources of funds at better terms, no other conditionality was added.

    (d) Linkage of enforcement and incentives. Under the "PROFEPA" subcomponent, the project
        linked the "stick" of inspections and environmental audits with the "carrot" of access to
        technical assistance and limited grants to help defray the costs of environmental audits for
        small firms.

    (e) Minimizing design risks. Risks were minimized by: (i) emphasizing detailed preparation and
        drawing from the findings of Bank sector work on water supply and sanitation, solid waste,
        urban transport, and municipal strengthening; (ii) relying on the Bank's broad operational
        experience in many of the sectors included in the project; (iii) using proven approaches and
        mechanisms to structure the project and channel funds to final beneficiaries; and (iv)
        supporting proven technologies.

Implementation. At effectiveness, the project's components were considered ready for implementation
since they were either linked to an on-going project (Medium-Size Cities Transport Project), to
proposed projects that were at an advanced stage of preparation (Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
II and Solid Waste Management II Projects), or to activities in which the staff of the implementing
agencies already had experience due to their on-going work and to their participation in the
Bank-funded Mexico Environmental Project (PAM). At negotiations, implementation arrangements,
including monitoring and performance indicators and targets for the PROFEPA subcomponent were
discussed and agreed with the Government.

Project Benefits. The project aimed to address the root causes of serious levels of water, air, and soil
contamination, as well as threats to public health, loss of environmental quality, and issues related to
the management of toxic materials, such as accidental spills, final disposal of toxic waste, and the
clean-up of contaminated sites. The project also aimed to strengthen the various Mexican institutions
responsible for environmental protection. The anticipated project's benefits included: (a) mitigation of
environmental problems resulting, for example, in decreased degradation and diminished risks of illness
and environmental disasters for an estimated three million people living in the border cities; and (b)
stronger federal, state, and municipal capabilities and an improved institutional framework for



                                                - 7 -

    sustainable environmental protection.

    Project Risks. The main risk identified during project preparation was related to the increased demand
    that the project would exert on the limited execution capacity (e.g., staff and budgets) of the: (a)
    implementing agencies (SEDESOL, the National Water Commission (CNA),1 INE, and PROFEPA);
   and (b) state and municipal agencies. The project addressed this risk by providing the funds and
   technical assistance to strengthen the implementing agencies at all levels, and to improve the border
   cities' capabilities to manage environmental infrastructure investments. Also, the flexibility of the line
   of credit approach for investment components was aimed at allowing a timely and effective transfer of
   resources from one component to another, as the project progressed.

   Rate of Return. All the investment subprojects in water supply, sanitation, and urban transport were
    required to demonstrate an economic rate of return of at least 12 percent.

    Poverty Impact. The project anticipated the following benefits and impacts: (i) improvement in the
    quality and coverage of environmental services in the poor areas within border cities; and (ii)
    improvement of living conditions in low-income neighborhoods through the road paving component.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    Since the ICR does not allow for a partially satisfactory rating in this section, the achievement of the
    project objective is rated as unsatisfactory based on the following factors:2

    The original objectives set forth at appraisal were in part attained since there has been an overall
    "improvement in the environmental and social conditions in the Border States..." Nonetheless,
    priority investments in the border region never materialized within the scope of the NBEP (as explained
    in Sections 3.2 and 3.4) and thus, activities which could have further improved environmental
    conditions and reduce health risks from pollution sources (such as waste water and sanitation, street
    paving, and solid waste management) were not executed under this project.

    The improvements in environmental and social conditions in the Border States can be attributed to a
    number of factors, in addition to the NBEP, including: (i) the components that were executed from the
    complementary and parallel Bank investments at a national level that also covered the Northern Border
    region in key sectors such as water supply and sanitation, transport and solid waste management (as
    planned during appraisal); (ii) Government-supported programs (such as the Environmental Institutions
    Development Program-PDIA); and (iii) additional investments from multilateral agencies (such as the
    Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) financed municipal development project).




    1
     Initially the National Water Commission (CNA) was to be the implementing agency involved in the
    execution of activities related to water supply and sanitation in the border region before the infrastructure
    component was dropped.
    2
     The Project Status Report (PSR) archived three months before the project's closure had a satisfactory rating
    for the development objectives and implementation performance, since the Bank team evaluated the project's
    overall performance at that particular time. A subsequent ICR-PSR archived after the project's closure, which
    took into account the project performance since inception, rated the development objective as unsatisfactory.



                                                        - 8 -

     In spite of the overall unsatisfactory rating, it is worth noting the substantial achievements related to
     the revised objective through the NBEP in strengthening the local, state, and federal capacity to address
     and manage environmental issues in a more effective manner, and thus contribute to overall
     environmental improvements in the border region. These outcomes include attainments from
     Components A and C, which strengthened the local, state and federal levels so now they are able to
     work effectively towards improving the environmental conditions in the Northern Border region. In
     particular:

         (a) PROFEPA is currently a well-established, key institution in the environmental protection and
              conservation field, in large part as a result of the activities developed under the NBEP
              (training, equipment, and technical studies). In fact, PROFEPA has evolved into a leading
              environmental agency recognized as a role model for environmental enforcement agencies in
              the Latin American region.

         (b) The project has served as a catalyst in the establishment and/or consolidation of various state
              environmental agencies (e.g., Nuevo Leon, Chihuahua, Baja California, and Tamaulipas), and
              municipal environmental agencies (e.g., Ciudad Juarez, Tijuana, and Nuevo Laredo). Today,
              as a result of the studies, training and equipment financed under the NBEP, these
              environmental agencies have significant programs and make a significant contribution to
              improving the quality of life as well as preventing further deterioration in their respective
              jurisdictions.

         (c) As a result of the 1998 Amendment, the project extended its support to continue the
              strengthening of SEMARNAT and INE, which were supported by the PAM, until the end of
              1997 when the PAM closed. This continuing support allowed these two key environmental
              institutions to consolidate their achievements to date and also to move into new areas in the
              border region.

         (d) The NBEP also contributed to strengthening the environmental licensing process by supporting
              the establishment of a pilot for a "single window for environmental permits" in Ciudad Juarez
              that brought together the federal, state and municipal environmental agencies in the process of
              issuing environmental permits for operation of industrial facilities and approving
              environmental impact statements and their respective mitigation plans.


4.2 Outputs by components:

There were no output indicators in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); therefore, this section examines the
key results achieved under each of the project's components. A description of the outputs by component is
                                                                   3


listed in Annexes 1 and 9.




3
 As a result of the financial crisis of 1995, the following components were cancelled: (i) Component B. Hazardous
Waste Management; (ii) Component D. Street Paving; and (iii) Component E. Infrastructure Investment Lines of
Credit.




                                                          - 9 -

1. Component A: Institutional Strengthening
ICR Rating: Satisfactory (based on revised project objectives).

This component was designed to: (a) strengthen the environmental management capacity of federal, state,
and municipal authorities; and (b) improve and support the planning, coordination and preparation
capabilities for future projects. These goals were to be achieved through activities under subcomponents
A.1 to A.6.

(A.1) Strengthening the institutional capacity of PROFEPA (Mexico's Federal environmental
enforcement agency) through technical and financial assistance. The objectives of this component were
fully achieved, with each of PROFEPA's four subprocuradurias (Offices of the Deputy Attorney General)4
supported through: (i) studies and consultancies to support PROFEPA's programs; (ii) acquisition of
computer equipment for both PROFEPA's headquarters and                  state delegations; and (iii) training of
PROFEPA's state and municipal staff. Computer equipment supported improvements in communications
and in enhancing a close relationship among stakeholders involved in addressing and responding to
environmental emergencies (e.g., state and municipal governments, Civil Defense, local delegations of the
Secretary of Communications and Transport, SEMARNAT, as well as large industrial groups that handle
hazardous materials or generate hazardous waste. Compliance with Mexican legislation has significantly
improved as a result of: (i) PROFEPA's industrial and natural resources enforcement activities; (ii)
environmental audits; (iii) a citizen's complaints program; and (iv) the environmental emergency response
system.

The project contributed directly to key achievements such as: (a) training of more than 10,000 federal, state
and municipal officials and private operators in environmental enforcement; (b) production of 109 training
manuals; (c) identification and characterization of 20 priority hazardous wastes sites for future clean-up;
(d) establishment of a network for environmental disasters management; (e) preparation and
implementation of a country-wide environmental audit program; and (f) carrying out more than 150,000
industrial inspections.

The following section, summarizes important outputs by subprocuradoria (sectoral office within
PROFEPA):

Ø       Office for Environmental Audits: (i) establishment of an Environmental Emergencies Center
        (COATEA) to provide advice and answer inquiries on the handling of environmental emergencies;
        (ii) establishment of a communications and information system linking all PROFEPA State
        delegations with its headquarters in Mexico City to enable a rapid response in addressing
        environmental emergencies; (iii) preparation of an environmental emergency response plan and
        manuals; and (iv) compilation of an inventory of the equipment and other resources available to
        respond to environmental emergencies.

Ø       The National Environmental Audits Program. The NBEP supported the Environmental and Audits
        Program, through: (i) the promotion of PROFEPA's environmental audit initiatives through
        meetings and seminars with the private sector and through media campaigns; (ii) quality-control
        supervision of the

4
 The key offices of PROFEPA supported by the project included: (i) Office for Environmental Audits; (ii) Office
for Industrial Compliance; (iii) Office for Natural Resources (fisheries, forestry and protected areas); and (iv) the
General Counsel's Office.



                                                      - 10 -

implementation of approximately 400 action plans; (iii) design and implementation of a certification
program for consultants serving as environmental auditors; (iv) preparation of terms of reference, including
guidelines, for environmental audits for ten priority industrial sectors; (v) technical studies on (a)
environmental audit policies and methodologies in countries other than Mexico; (b) economic and financial
instruments to induce industrial firms to carry out environmental audits and invest in pollution control and
prevention; and (c) appropriate technologies for the treatment of hazardous wastes; (vi) carrying out of
environmental audits in small- and medium-size firms; and (vii) establishment of ten regional centers to
provide technical assistance to the industrial sector with respect to environmental audits and the
implementation of the resulting action plans. Of more than 2,300 environmental audits that have been
carried out since 1992, (including those supported by the NBEP since 1995), 80 percent have endorsed
action plans and more than 50 percent have received their corresponding certificate (90 percent of the latter
still remained effective in 2003).

In the last two years of the project, the National Program for Environmental Audits was expanded to
include Conservation Units, Management and Sustainable Use of Wildlife, and some municipalities.

A certification program was also developed under the NBEP. The Certificate for Clean Industry to be
awarded to industrial companies, and the Certificate for Environmental Compliance for non-industrial
institutions is a system to praise the private sector and agencies publicly that are making efforts to comply
with environmental management standards.            For those entities that outperform through significant
investments in environmental protection, the Recognition of Environmental Excellence Award has been
awarded.

In sum, the National Environmental Audits Program has (i) encouraged the implementation of actions and
measures that reduce the likelihood of accidents; (ii) helped control pollution; and (iii) promoted efficient
and sustainable use of natural resources. For companies, the benefits associated with participating in the
program include: (i) receiving technical assistance to help them comply with environmental regulations; (ii)
improving their overall corporate image; (iii) implementing cleaner processes and improving their
environmental management systems; and (iv) becoming more productive and competitive internationally.
At the international level, the program helped the GoM fulfill some of the commitments under the NAFTA
and those under the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).

Ø        Identification and Characterization of Abandoned Contaminated Sites. Under this subcomponent,
         an extensive effort was carried out to establish inventories of contaminated sites for the states with
         most critical problems. Fifteen states (including the six Border states) were supported through the
         NBEP in developing their inventories, including the characterization of selected sites to enable the
         identification of concrete measures for their remediation. In 2001, under SEMARNAT's new
         structure, all activities regarding contaminated sites were transferred from PROFEPA to the
         subsecretariat of environmental management.

Ø        Office for Industrial Compliance. This subcomponent was designed to improve compliance with
         environmental legislation. The project supported: (i) a human resource strengthening program
         consisting of development and implementation of a system for recruiting environmental specialists;
         (ii) construction and outfitting of PROFEPA's laboratories, (including field inspection and office
         staff); (iii) a quality assurance program to ensure consistency among all PROFEPA laboratories;
         and (iv) the development, implementation and operation of an industrial inspection and surveillance
         information system. The NBEP allowed PROFEPA to buy the necessary equipment to perform
         inspection visits at the national level, and to implement a training program to ensure that its staff


                                                       - 11 -

         was aware of the latest developments in the field.

Given that management of toxic substances is a Federal responsibility, the inspection and surveillance
program focused on: (i) air quality and atmospheric emissions; and (ii) toxic waste. Improved coordination
between the Inspection and Surveillance Program and the Environmental Audit Program has enabled
PROFEPA to focus its inspections on companies that present the greatest risk. As a result of these efforts,
between 1994-2000, the level of noncompliance declined from 3.1 to 1.9 percent.

Ø        General Counsel's Office. The project supported an environmental legislation awareness program
         that consisted of: (i) the preparation and provision of federal and local environmental legislation
         awareness courses; (ii) exchange of environmental legislation information and materials program
         with institutions in the U.S. and Canada; (iii) preparation of materials for a training and
         dissemination program on North American environmental legislation; and (iv) implementation of a
         program to document administrative procedures relating to environmental and natural resources
         inspection and surveillance activities. Furthermore the project carried out a comparative
         evaluation of environmental legislation enforcement systems in Mexico, Canada and the U.S.; and
         in 1996, launched a program to strengthen PROFEPA's public complaints system. The system
         proved to be very effective in bringing to PROFEPA and other environmental agencies' attention to
         cases of release of pollutants into the environment and getting them to address them in a timely
         manner.

Ø        Office for Natural Resources. Under this subcomponent the project financed: (i) a human resource
         strengthening program (which included recruitment of specialized staff and field and office
         equipment to strengthen on-site inspection and enforcement of environmental regulations related to
         natural resources); and (ii) the development, implementation and operation of an information
         system to store inspection and surveillance data relating to violations to the country's natural
         resources.

The project provided the elements to carry out more than 108,000 inspections to verify compliance with
legislation in the management of forestry, wildlife, marine resources, endangered species, protected natural
areas, and maritime-terrestrial Federal zones. Some of the important achievements to date include: (i)
increased forestry inspections in areas of high incidence of illicit activities and accelerated deforestation
where four of the nine most "critical areas" in terms of governability have been reclaimed; (ii) increased
compliance with environmental regulations in protected areas; and (iii) strengthening the Inspection
Program for Ports, Airports, and Border areas to detect illegal trading of endangered species.

In sum, through the support of the NBEP, PROFEPA has evolved into a well-established efficient
institution and a role-model agency for other countries in the region.

(A.2) Establishment of a PROFEPA training program. This training program allowed PROFEPA, state
environmental and municipal staff to be trained on a sustained basis in key relevant areas.

Throughout the life of the project, more than 130 training courses were held, and more than 7,000 technical
personnel were trained (including an estimated 60 percent of PROFEPA staff at headquarters, 5 percent of
state and municipal staff, and 35 percent of private sector personnel). This training program has allowed
government staff and representatives from the private sector to stay aware of the latest developments in
environmental management systems and compliance agreements (including voluntary audits and
compliance, environmental legislation, inspection requirements, etc.)




                                                      - 12 -

(A.3) Development of an Integrated Management Information System. This information system was
established to monitor the activities of inspectors and delegations nationwide and facilitate PROFEPA's
management decision-making process.

The NBEP helped finance an important part of PROFEPA's computer and communications equipment and
the development of information systems to serve PROFEPA's specific operational and decision-making
needs. The information systems have enabled PROFEPA to monitor and systematize the information
generated by its technical areas at the national level, create a national network that allows for real-time
communication between the central and state offices, as well as with other national and international
institutions. Three institutional information systems have been established: (i) the Strategic Institutional
Information System ­ SIIE; (ii) the Institutional Information System ­ SIIP; and (iii) the Cartographic
Institutional Information System of PROFEPA ­ SIICAP. The SIIE is noteworthy for the strategic nature
of the information it manages and the innovative technology it implements. It is an information analysis
tool that consolidates data generated on a daily basis for each of PROFEPA's state offices, and converts
the data into strategic indicators to: (i) measure the impact of the institution's activities; (ii) follow-up on
actions regarding the institution's programs and lines of action; and (iii) provide the information needed for
decision-making.

(A.4) Coordination and Management of the NBEP activities. This subcomponent supported the
coordination unit within PROFEPA that performed in a satisfactory manner in the delivery of the project
outputs. While at times understaffed, this unit performed competently in the monitoring and supervision of
project activities.

(A.5) Strengthening of the institutional capacity of States and Municipalities in the Border Region.
This subcomponent focused on: (a) strengthening the environmental departments of the Northern Border
states and municipalities;5 (b) supporting the preparation and implementation of environmental regulations
and standards; and (c) addressing the constraints that hinder administrative efficiency and financial
management of the Northern Border local environmental government agencies.        6




Institutional strengthening was achieved through a program that consisted of: (i) preparation of
environmental regulations and standards for the respective jurisdictions; (ii) training of technical and
administrative staff; (iii) provision of field, laboratory and office equipment; and (iv) carrying out studies
related to key environmental issues, in order to define, characterize and propose concrete solutions. Today,
as a result of the NBEP's support, six Border states have environmental agencies with trained staff and
equipment and are active participants in environmental and socio-economic planning. They also carry out
monitoring for compliance with environmental legislation. Similarly the major cities and in some states
such as Baja California, Nuevo Leon and Tamaulipas, the smaller municipalities have equivalent
capacities. Also, significant progress was made in defining effective and efficient organizational structures,
and the corresponding positions and responsibilities in the respective environmental management agencies.




5
  These activities were carried out by INE until 2000, and thereafter by SEMARNAT through its Planning and
Environmental Policy department (SSPPA) in close collaboration with the beneficiaries (state and municipal
environmental agencies).
6
 Due to impact of the financial and economic crisis of 1995, these activities (which were under the responsibility
of BANOBRAS) did not develop as planned, and the respective funds were eventually cancelled.



                                                      - 13 -

The training programs, delivered by local public universities, were eventually incorporated into the
regular curricula and university programs. This led to a general awareness raising and to an increased
number of trained technical students/personnel that could eventually make informed decisions and enhance
the collaboration for environmental protection among various sectors of the society, (e.g., government,
private and non-governmental organizations). The university courses will support project sustainability
since it is likely that these programs will continue well beyond the life of the project.

The equipment acquired through the NBEP was used primarily for: (i) monitoring and characterization of
air, water and soil quality; and (ii) the establishment of offices, both technical and administrative, for the
state and municipal environmental agencies in the Northern Border region.

The NBEP also financed the preparation of key instruments for environmental management such as: (i)
Environmental Action Plans for the six Border states and sixteen municipalities; (ii) technical studies
identifying and categorizing key environmental issues; (iii) improvements to environmental standards and
regulations; and (iv) two comprehensive reports describing the overall state of the environment along the
border region.

The financial and technical support of the NBEP served as a catalyst for raising increased funding for
environmental agencies from states and selected municipalities.           Ciudad de Juarez, in the State of
Chihuahua, and the Nuevo Leon state environmental agency are good examples of this evolution.

(A.6) Strengthening of the capacity of counterparts, including BANOBRAS, INE/SEMARNAT, and
SEDESOL.

This subcomponent included the strengthening of the institutional capacity of SEDESOL through: (i) the
establishment and operation of the OASP, to monitor project implementation progress; and (ii) the carrying
out of studies to support SEDESOL's programs on              the needs for urban upgrading, infrastructure,
transport, roads, and solid waste management along the Northern Border. Project funds also contributed
significantly to the strengthening SEMARNAT (initially INE) through the acquisition of computer
equipment and contracting of various technical studies on the environmental condition in the border region,
which allowed for a comprehensive analysis and delegation of responsibilities for addressing them (whether
within SEMARNAT or to State and municipal environmental agencies).

This subcomponent strengthened the institutional capacity of INE and SEMARNAT through: (i)
establishment of a computerized hazardous waste tracking system; (ii) establishment of data bases,
information systems and information centers along the Border states; and (iii) carrying out studies in
support of the GoM's programs on waste and hazardous waste management, air quality, land use planning,
wildlife conservation, decentralization of environmental management and coordination of external financial
support. The computer equipment directly contributed to the systematization of technical information
generated by the various departments of SEMARNAT, and improved their response time on issues such as
requests for information or issuing of permits. The project funded roughly 30 percent of INE's overall
budget and contributed directly to INE's efforts to: (a) strengthen the Border states and municipal
environmental authorities; (b) provide support for the management of seven protected areas located in the
Northern Border region; and (c) carry out studies that strengthened the basis for environmental regulations.




                                                     - 14 -

2. Component C: Protection of Biodiversity and Endangered Species.
ICR Rating: Satisfactory (based on revised project objectives, and in spite of its premature cancellation in
2001).

This component provided support to the first phase of the Government's efforts to promote management of
protected areas and conservation of biological diversity along the Mexico-U.S. border.

Before its cancellation, in 2001,7 this component financed the: (i) preparation of five Management
Programs (i.e., long-term plans for the respective protected area); (ii) demarcation of seven selected
protected areas; (iii) acquisition of field and office equipment, including computers; (iv) basic studies
relevant to the management of the area (see below); (v) training of staff; and (vi) strengthened surveillance
and monitoring capacity.       Furthermore, the project supported sustainable development in these areas
through the promotion of key activities that included research, eco-tourism, environmental education, and
community participation.

The project supported the following seven protected areas: (i) El Pinacate y Gran Desierto de Altar (Baja
California); (ii) Alto Golfo de California y Delta del Río Colorado (Sonora); (iii) Maderas del Carmen
(Coahuila); (iv) Cañón de Santa Elena (Chihuahua); (v) Cuatrociénegas (Coahuila), (vi) Sierra de los Ajos
Baviste; and (vii) Sierra de Alamos Cuchujaqui (Sonora). The proposed biosphere reserve of Laguna
Madre (Tamaulipas) was not developed under the NBEP. Before its cancellation, the outcomes of this
component were considered highly satisfactory and it is recognized that the project had an overall positive
impact since it came at a critical time when the Protected Areas System was being established within
SEMARNAP. Currently these protected areas have: (i) permanent staff; (ii) management plans; (iii) key
technical studies; and (iv) the infrastructure and equipment required to allow them to fulfill their basic
responsibilities.

Specifically, this component helped develop a number of technical studies on: (i) conservation and
protected area management system; (ii) diagnosis of endemic, rare, threatened, endangered and/or
migratory plant and animal species of the border area; (iii) the identification and characterization of
selected ecological areas in the border area suitable for legal protection; and (iv) financial assessment for
the sustainability of the areas. These studies supported the management plans for each protected area and
helped identify three additional natural areas prone to protection. Furthermore, this component also
carried out a comprehensive training and capacity building program for INE, SEMARNAT and PROFEPA
staff (as well as for other environmental professionals) on conservation methods and protected area
management systems.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not required, since the financing of investment subprojects in water supply, sanitation, and urban transport
was cancelled (See Sections 3.4 and 3.5).




7
 During the restructuring of SEMARNAP in 2001, it was decided that issues pertaining to Protected Areas would
be transferred from INE to the National Commission for Protected Areas (CONANP) which, at the time, decided to
cancel its participation in the NBEP. It is recognized to a certain degree that the overall management in the
protected areas was affected after they were excluded from NBEP.




                                                       - 15 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    N/A. See Section 4.3 above.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    The institutional development impact of the project is considered High. The main impact of the project
    was in its significant contribution to the development of federal, state and municipal level
    environmental agencies. The nonexistent or incipient state and municipal environmental agencies at the
    beginning of the project became efficient institutions, fully participating            in addressing the
    socioeconomic issues of their respective jurisdiction. This resulted in large part from the incentive of
    receiving financial support from the project in the acquisition of office, field and laboratory equipment,
    the provision of professional training to the staff, and by financing some basic studies and technical
    reports that helped the agencies focus on key issues and develop their strategic planning abilities,
    establish priorities, engage in community participation, and monitor and survey key polluting activities.


    Furthermore, the NBEP supported the development of PROFEPA as a key institution in environmental
    management and enforcement in Mexico through the network of analytical laboratories,
    computer-based information systems, technical assistance and a comprehensive staff training program.
    Through the enactment of the new Water Law, PROFEPA has been trusted with the enforcement
    responsibilities over liquid effluents, previously carried out by the National Water Commission,
    demonstrating its overall enhanced capacity.

    In sum, the federal, state and municipal environmental agencies of the Northern Border region currently
    have the basic infrastructure, equipment and trained personnel to address the basic environmental
    issues in their regions. Furthermore, these agencies are actively involved in: (i) the socioeconomic
    planning for the respective jurisdiction; (ii) the surveillance of compliance with environmental
    legislation and standards; (iii) the monitoring of environmental quality and potential ecosystem
    degradation; and (iv) implementing environmental impact assessments at their jurisdictional level, thus
    guaranteeing a better quality of life for their populations. Although these elements should be reflected
    in an improvement in the environmental quality of the region and reduced health risks due to
    environmental pollution, much remains to be done to make these gains sustainable and to ensure that
    all-important environmental issues are addressed.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
At the end of 1994/beginning of 1995, only a few months after this loan had been approved by the Board,
Mexico entered into a major financial and economic crisis whose consequences extended over several years,
covering a major part of the project's life. In 1995, over a period of several months, the peso devaluated by
more than 50 percent, and the interest rates skyrocketed with severe impacts throughout the economy. A
period of serious fiscal constraints and negative growth followed, forcing a change in the GoM's priorities.
The Federal budget, particularly for certain sectors including the environmental sector, was substantially
reduced resulting in a serious negative impact on this project's implementation progress. In addition, the
rise in the interest rates significantly reduced the demand of municipalities for sub-loans to invest in
projects such as solid waste and water and sanitation in the border area, eventually leading to the
cancellation of the investment components/activities of the loan.




                                                     - 16 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Macroeconomic conditions. As a result of the financial crisis, the GoM's priorities shifted to ensuring, in
the short run, macroeconomic stability and delaying the implementation of some of its long-term
development agenda, including some aspects of its national environmental programs. The immediate
impact of this economic crisis was the much lower annual budgetary allocations (expressed in US$) for the
project activities compared to when the project was approved.8 These unfavorable conditions were
compounded by the late release of the allocated investment budgets9 to the implementing agencies. These
funds would, for the most part, only become available by the third or fourth quarter of the fiscal year.
Since the resources often could not be spent in remaining time in the fiscal year, the net result was an
additional reduction in the budget allocated to the project's activities. Under these circumstances, and in
spite of (i) various partial cancellations; and (ii) the two-year extension of the project's closing date, the
main implementing agency SEMARNAT ­ that includes both INE and PROFEPA ­ could spend only
approximately 82 percent of the allocated funds in spite of the great demand for the use of resources.

Counterpart funds. In Mexico, all disbursements eligible for reimbursement from the loan are part of the
regular budget of the implementing agency. Because of this "no additionality" policy followed by the
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) in relation to the Bank-funded projects, the expenditures
assigned to the loan and to the counterpart resources are "fungible" since both are part of the same
budgetary ceiling. (See footnote 6.) As a result, counterpart funds allocated to the project were also
affected by: (i) the financial crisis; (ii) the lower-than-expected budget allocations to implementing
agencies; and (iii) the periodic delays in the release of approved budgets by SHCP.

The reorganization of SEMARNAP into SEMARNAT in 2001, at the beginning of the new
Administration in Mexico, including the reassignment of project coordination from INE to DGPAIRS,
caused significant delays in the implementation of project's activities because of the realignment of major
responsibilities at the Federal level with the subsequent changes in priorities, work plans, procedures, and
staff.    These organizational changes required extensive reprogramming of specific activities and
reassignment of staff, thus slowing down the execution of the project's activities, especially related to the
strengthening of the environmental agencies in the Border states. It is important to note that in 2001 very
few project activities were carried out, mainly because the new staff was not familiar with either the
programs or the procedures that would allow them to move ahead.




8According to the GoM's "no additionality" policy, even if a new project will be funded through a Bank loan, there
is no increase in the implementing agency's budget to finance the activities of the new project. The Secretariat of
Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) requires that the funds needed for the implementation of the new project's
activities come from reallocations within the implementing agencies. The effects of such a policy are felt much
more during the periods of cutbacks in governments' expenditures, such as it has occurred in Mexico since 1995.
9In the nomenclature of the GoM, the "investment budgets" include acquisition of equipment and studies that have
to be contracted.




                                                      - 17 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project supported a wide diversity of activities and included the participation of many different
coordinating units and staff within the implementing agencies. It was extremely helpful that the project's
coordination units in INE and PROFEPA, as well as the BANOBRAS staff responsible for this project
(which had experience with many other Bank-financed projects), were already familiar with the Bank's
procedures from the Mexico Environmental Project. Unfortunately, the change in project's coordination in
SEMARNAT from INE to DGPAIRS, at the beginning of 2001, with personnel not familiar with the
program or the procedures resulted in an almost one year lost in the implementation of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was US$59.9, of which IBRD financed US$35.1 (about 10 percent of the original
appraised amount) and the Government contribution was US$24.8 million (about 6 percent of the original
appraisal amount). Cost changes resulting from the devaluation of the Mexican peso following the 1995
crisis did not represent a major "disturbance" in the project's implementation. The implementing agencies
adjusted well to the changing value of the peso in relation to the US$ and prices. In many cases, although
the price in pesos has stayed the same or gone up somewhat, in dollar terms the costs were reduced. This
compensated to some extent for the reduced budgets, in US$, that were available for implementation.

The shortage of allocated funds and their late release in the fiscal year was a constant obstacle to an
effective, efficient and continued contracting process, with the overall result of low disbursement rate.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    The sustainability of the project is rated as "Likely" for the following reasons:
     Ø Institutions. TheFederal,StateandMunicipalenvironmentalagenciesthatthisproject
           supported financially and technically now function as efficient institutions. They are well
           accepted and recognized as an integral part of the respective governments and their development
           agendas and in most cases, they have developed concrete action plans to address the most
           pressing environmental issues. In addition, as a result of project activities, some state and
           municipal environmental agencies along the Northern Border region are now factored into the
           overall state budget and do not require external financing.
     Ø Investments/Infrastructure. Althoughtheinvestmentscomponentswerecancelledearlyinthe
           project's life, the activities that were initially foreseen to be funded through this project were
           partially funded by other parallel loans, by government programs, and through an IDB financed
           project (as explained in section 4.1).
     Ø AwarenessRaising. Severaloftheactivitiescarriedoutthroughuniversities,NGOsandthe
           private sector helped raise environmental awareness and generate an informed public opinion,
           which will, most likely, maintain the pressure on the GoM and the polluters for effective
           environmental management and control. Furthermore, university and training courses have
           contributed to building a critical mass of technically prepared staff that has/can enter the
           workforce and address key environmental issues.
     Ø Enhancedlocaldemand. Institutionalstakeholders,suchasenvironmentalagencies,
           universities and planning institutes, established or strengthened through the state and municipal
           level activities, now have an enhanced capacity to address environmental issues and are likely to
           maintain their pressure on their federal counterparts to support and co-finance their activities.
     Ø CapacityBuilding. Throughthecreationof professionaltrainingcourses,universitieshavealso



                                                         - 18 -

           assumed the commitment of continuing to provide training services on environmental
           management issues beyond the life of the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    In the case of the Federal, state and municipal environmental agencies that this project helped
    strengthen or establish, the transition to "regular" operations already took place during project
    implementation. For example, given the limited Federal allocations to states and municipalities for
    environmental matters, and in large part as a result of the realization of the important role the
    environmental agencies had in improving the quality of life, for a number of years state and municipal
    governments have already integrated resources for their environmental agencies into their own annual
    budgetary plans.     The project contributed to jump-starting this transition by assisting with the
    acquisition of computer equipment, field measurement instrumentation, and training and special
    studies, which have established the foundation for institutional growth at the local and state level. On a
    larger scale, currently some of these environmental institutions in Mexico (i.e., PROFEPA and the
    State Environmental Agency for the State of Nuevo Leon) have evolved to the point of being
    considered role models for other countries in the region.

    Regarding the investment component, as the economic situation in Mexico improved, Government
    increased financing for environmentally-related and urban infrastructure works such as solid waste
    disposal facilities, water and sanitation systems, and paving of streets through its own programs.
    Although much remains to be done, there are visible improvements. For example, the last Bank
    mission to the Northern Border region in June-July 2003, noticed and recorded noticeable
    enhancements and developments in the urban environment of cities like Ciudad Juarez, Saltillo and
    Monterrey, when compared to 1994. While this progress and evolution in addressing environmental
    and municipal urban issues is not due entirely to the NBEP, many of the project activities directly
    influenced and significantly contributed to raising the aspirations and awareness of the citizens with
    respect to the environmental quality they should expect and demand. It also supported the development
    of professionally competent institutions, capable of planning for and implementing actual programs
    that would lead to improvements in the quality of life in the region. Certainly, compared to the
    situation ten years ago when the project was being prepared, the environmental institutions have a
    greatly enhanced capacity and the citizens are much more aware of the importance of the environmental
    issues in day-to-day life.

    The "strategy" adopted by the project of encouraging the local universities to introduce environmental
    programs in their curricula proved advantageous not only within the context of the project, but also
    since it provided an additional sustainability element, beyond the project's lifetime, by creating a
    technically prepared critical mass of specialized personnel who can contribute to addressing
    environmental issues in the region.

    The GoM's policy of "no additionality" for Bank-financed projects, mentioned in Section 5.2, has had
    a relatively positive impact on the future sustainability of this project, by requiring that the budgets of
    environmental agencies become part of the regular budgets, independent of the existence of external
    financing.

    The office, field and laboratory equipment financed by the project has a lifetime of five to seven years,
    sufficient to allow the respective agencies to provide for their replacement in due time. Similarly, the
    information systems partially financed by the project are long-term tools for planning and decision
    making, as well as for public information, and are basic activities that have to be maintained to ensure
    the proper operation of the respective institutions.



                                                     - 19 -

    Lastly, it is worth noting that PROFEPA has begun discussions with the Bank for a possible follow-up
    project that focuses on expanding the lessons and achievements of the NBEP, to further improve
    environmental management and enforcement in the country.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    Unsatisfactory.

    Since    the ICR does not allow for a "Partially Satisfactory" rating in this section, the Bank
   performance in the lending phase is considered unsatisfactory. The project design, based on the concept
   of an integrated sectoral project in a defined geographical region of Mexico, was innovative, but proved
   to be too ambitious and oversized. Despite its technically sound design, its overreaching and
   comprehensive plan ran aground when the financial crisis of 1995 struck Mexico and about 90 percent
   of loan proceeds had to be cancelled.

   Despite the progress achieved with certain innovative project design features, such as the
   decentralization of environmental management based on the "Principle of Subsidiarity" (i.e., addressing
   the issues at the lowest possible government level), and the strengthening of environmental institutions
   as a foundation for sound and sustainable environmental management, in hindsight, the project design
   may have been overly bold against the anticipated results.

   While it is recognized that the loan cancellations were a result of the financial and economic crisis, the
   question remains as to whether project design could have been able to include measures to counter
   external shocks, ensure completion of all foreseen components and fulfill the original development
   objectives. Neither the GoM nor the Bank were able to anticipate such a crisis, but a less ambitious
   project design (such as the one that prevailed after the Amendment) could have attained achievements
   while minimizing/adverting a large annulment of components/activities.               Nonetheless, the Bank
   responded swiftly to the GoM's new priorities that, as a result of the crisis, focused on macroeconomic
   stability, and temporarily relegating environmental concerns and management to a lower priority. It is
   worth noting, however, that despite the financial crisis and subsequent cancellations, the project
   managed to fulfill its development objectives, in part through: (i) the            original components that
   remained and       fostered institutional strengthening; and (ii) certain components of parallel Bank
   financed loans; (iii) government programs; and (iv) municipal development projects financed through
   the IDB, which carried out infrastructure activities in the Northern Border states, contributing to the
   development objectives.

   During project preparation, the Bank's team worked well and closely with the Mexican counterparts
   and, specifically, with project coordinators.10 Although when the project was being prepared and in the
   short-lived initial phase, there were five coordinators, one for each implementing agency, after the
   cancellation of the investment component, there were only three




   10Although when the project was being prepared and in the short-lived initial phase, there were five
   coordinators, one for each implementing agency, after the cancellation of the investment component, there
   were only three coordinators, one in SEMARNAT, one in PROFEPA, plus BANOBRAS with the overall
   responsibility as the "formal borrower."



                                                    - 20 -

    coordinators, one in SEMARNAT, one in PROFEPA, plus BANOBRAS with the overall
    responsibility as the "formal borrower". who had previously worked with the Bank team in the
    implementation of the PAM (1993­1997). A positive outcome of this close collaboration was that
    issues which affected the implementation of the PAM and could potentially affect NBEP's performance
    (i.e., procurement and financial management) were addressed in the project design.

7.2 Supervision:
    Satisfactory

    Bank supervision was adequate, commensurate with the available resources and often-adverse
    conditions. Overall, 33 supervision missions were carried out during the nearly eight years of project
    implementation. The frequency of these missions was greater during the first part of the project due to
    the number of different sectors and states involved as well as the need to attend issues that invariably
    came up during the early years of the NBEP's implementation.

    Project documentation was adequate and key activities were well reported through multiple Project
    Supervision Reports, Aide Memoires and Back to Office Reports. The Bank sought to incorporate the
    right composition of staff (by the field of expertise) to complement supervision missions (which
    included a number of field visits to Border States and towns). Furthermore, the Bank team proactively
    delivered sound technical and operational support (most notably in environmental management,
    procurement and financial management) to the different agencies involved (INE, SEMARNAT,
    PROFEPA, BANOBRAS, SEDESOL) throughout the life of the project.

    For the most part, the Bank was effective and proactive in addressing problems and unexpected issues
    that surfaced during implementation. For instance, when the financial crisis struck, the Bank team
    responded rapidly to the requests from the Borrower to re-dimension the project's activities and
    subsequently reduce the amount of the loan. It is worth noting that the decision to keep the project
    alive, despite such a large cancellation of components and resources, was beneficial since the remaining
    components and activities had a significant impact on strengthening the environmental management
    capacity at the federal, state and municipal levels, and contributing to an overall improvement of the
    conditions in the Northern Border area. Furthermore, close collaboration from the previous experience
    of the PAM, allowed the GoM's and the Bank teams to anticipate and address implementation issues
    effectively.

    In a situation of numerous setbacks that emerged from the economic crisis, the slow disbursement of
    resources from SHCP to the implementing agencies, and institutional changes within the GoM, the
    Bank team responded effectively in granting a two-year extension, which allowed sufficient time to
    execute pending activities. While this extension allowed for key activities to be developed, ongoing
    delays in the GoM's allocation of resources to implementing agencies unfortunately prevented further
    activities from being completed and prompted the cancellation of undisbursed resources
    (US$4,915,000) by project's closing.

    Lastly, it is worth noting that despite changes in task managers (five task team leaders from project
    preparation to closing), the Bank ensured continuity by keeping the active involvement and
    participation of an environmental specialist (one of the task managers until his retirement) as part of
    every Bank Task Team throughout the life of the project. This ensured that the institutional memory,
    the close relationships with the client, and the key knowledge of issues (technical and operational) was
    never at risk of being lost.




                                                     - 21 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Unsatisfactory

    In the absence of a "Partially Satisfactory" rating in this section, the overall Bank performance is
    considered unsatisfactory. The original project design was overly ambitious and the Bank did not
    sufficiently evaluate the potential associated risks. Despite the shortcomings in project design and in
    implementation due to the financial crisis, the Bank team showed commitment to the objectives of the
    project and worked well together throughout project preparation and implementation. This made it
    possible for the project to attain several major achievements with a much-reduced level of financial
    resources than originally estimated, and contribute to overall improved environmental conditions in the
    Northern Border region. The Bank responded promptly and efficiently to the Borrower's requests and
    comments, was attentive to the Borrower in matters of determining priorities, and was flexible in
    accepting changes so that the project could respond to the changing needs of the implementing
    agencies.

    Given the circumstances at the time, the Bank accepted the Borrower's requests for various
    cancellations, and worked with its staff to ensure that the project, with its new limitations and
    difficult budgetary constraints, would continue to seek to attain the development objectives.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    Satisfactory

    In spite of the overly ambitious project design the project aimed at addressing the country's needs, and
    based on the information available at the time of project preparation, the Borrower performed
    satisfactorily. The Borrower worked closely with the Bank throughout project preparation, and relied
    on Bank experience and technical expertise for its design. Since the project included different sectors,
    the Borrower assigned different teams to work with the respective Bank specialists during the
    preparation phase. The work was intense, but rewarding both from the technical and team building
    relations points of view due in large part to the shared vision between the Borrower and the Bank,
    which had worked together previously in the PAM, and because it provided an excellent opportunity to
    advance the environmental sector in Mexico significantly, culminating with the approval of the loan by
    the Board.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    Unsatisfactory

    Government performance was mixed during implementation and since the ICR does not allow for a "
    Partially Satisfactory" rating, on balance, performance was considered unsatisfactory. The GoM was
    receptive and supportive of the project during its implementation. However, this rating is justified due
    to: (i) the failure of SCHP to disburse project resources to the implementing agencies in a timely way;
    (ii) the fact that SHCP did not abide by the negotiated annual resource allocations for the implementing
    agencies and would ultimately provide a lower amount than originally agreed (leading to reductions in
    resources destined for project activities); and (iii) subsequent penalties (reduction in resources) imposed
    by SHCP on the implementing agencies for being unable to spend the agreed annual amounts before the
    end of the year (despite the fact that these resources would only be made available late in the year).
    Unfortunately, this situation led to unnecessary time spent by all stakeholders in the planning of
    activities, which would ultimately not take place, and difficulties in ensuring an adequate procurement
    process due to the shorter time available to complete tasks. Ultimately, these inefficiencies led to a



                                                      - 22 -

    final cancellation of an undisbursed amount of US$ 4.9 million at project closing.

    At its inception, the project had a high-level of political support in Mexico. Likewise the project was
    regarded as a high priority among the other environmental programs in the country, in large part due to
    the importance given to the NAFTA negotiations, which were taking place at that time. Unfortunately,
    as the financial and economic crisis affected the country, the environmental agenda was not a priority
    for many years. Nonetheless, the government's decision to keep the NBEP active, despite the financial
    crisis, demonstrated a commitment to ensuring that environmental management has a role in the agenda
    of the Northern Border states.

    Lastly, the GoM's unnecessarily delays (more than a year) in signing the Amendment to the Loan
    Agreement during the last phase of the project, almost led to an unsatisfactory rating in project
    implementation since this hold-up prevented disbursements according to the new categories.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    Satisfactory

    The rating reflects the effort and commitment by of all implementing agencies (BANOBRAS, INE,
    SEMARNAT, PROFEPA and SEDESOL) to carry out their respective activities, often under adverse
    conditions and resource constraints. The rating also reflects the support of the management of the
    implementing agencies and the dedication of their technical staff to ensure the quality of the products
    financed by the project, as well as their willingness to collaborate with the Bank's team in ensuring that
    the project's implementation was moving ahead in spite of difficulties over which they had no control.
    The Bank's team always had a good reception and efficient response from the implementing agencies
    when it required information or data regarding project implementation. Furthermore, the implementing
    agencies played a key role during the supervision missions.

    It is worth noting that there were some disruptions in implementation with the change of the
    coordinating units from INE to DGPAIRS in SEMARNAT. Nevertheless, both units contributed
    positively to project implementation and managed to perform satisfactorily during the life of the
    project. Likewise PROFEPA's overall performance was highly satisfactory and demonstrated its
    dedication to carrying out project activities with very high standards. Lastly, the coordinating role of
    BANOBRAS was key to ensuring adequate flow of information among multiple agencies and in
    ensuring timely delivery of financial statements, audit reports, and procurement requests.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Satisfactory

    In spite of the significant reduction in the project's size from its approval to closing, and the difficulties
    encountered by the delays and reductions in resources provided by SCHP to implementing agencies,
    overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The implementing agencies continuously
    demonstrated their commitment to the achievement of project objectives and performed satisfactorily
    within the budget limitations imposed by externalities often outside their control. The rating is also
    based on the fact that, as stated in Section 4.1, an analysis of the project's results concluded that the
    revised development objectives were reached, and that environmental management capacity




                                                      - 23 -

   and conditions in Mexico's Northern Border region are far better today than compared to 1994.11



8. Lessons Learned

   Project design and implementation. In retrospect, the project design was overly optimistic and
   ambitious and failed to assess the institutional and fiscal capacity of the implementing agencies
   adequately. Some of the key lessons related to project design are:

   Ø Theprojectpreparationphaseshouldexplicitlyconsidernotonlythecurrentfinancialand
          economic conditions, but also possible changes over the duration of the project. While the
          economic crisis of 1995 was an unforeseen event, project design could try to adopt
          preventive/corrective measures to mitigate the impacts of a crisis of a similar scale occurring
          during project implementation.
   Ø Bothprojectdesignandimplementationneedtobesufficientlyflexibletoaccommodatechanges
          in priorities resulting from events and/or alterations in social, economic and/or political
          conditions. This is particularly important in institutional strengthening projects that often consist
          of a series of sequential activities over a number of years. This flexibility needs to be taken into
          account, by having a project design robust enough to adjust to political changes and subsequent
          disruptions in the economic priorities. In particular, this flexibility should be imbedded in
          project design when preparation takes place at the end of an Administration.
   Ø Thisprojectconfirmedthefindingsofitspredecessor,theMexicoEnvironmentProject(PAM),
          in that "second tier" institutions (i.e., states, municipalities) could be more effective in carrying
          out environmental management activities "on the ground" (subsidiarity principle). It must be
          emphasized that as numerous studies have shown, decentralization at the sectoral level, and in
          particular for the environment, must be accompanied by appropriate fiscal decentralization
          mechanisms.
   Ø ImplementingagenciesinMexicoseeverylittle,ifany,additionalresourcesfromBankprojects.
          The incentive for requesting Bank support is primarily due to the technical assistance associated
          with the Bank's participation and the increased probability that Bank intervention will make
          programs more sustainable. Future operations should try to emphasize these aspects in the
          project's design.
   Ø Itisimportantthattheprojectdesignphasepaygreaterattentiontotheflowoffundstothe
          implementing agencies so that the commitments, both in actual amounts and their timing,
          correspond to what was negotiated and planned. The lack of respect for the commitments and
          agreed amounts, as happened with this project, can lead to inefficiencies and waste of scarce
          resources.
   Ø CoordinationamonggovernmentandBankteamsmanagingmultipleloansassociatedwithtrade
          agreements, such as NAFTA, should be emphasized.

   11In December 2003, a workshop held in Mexico brought together the key staff and institutions that
   participated over the years in the project's implementation. The purpose of the workshop was to discuss the
   project's accomplishments and problems, limitations and lessons learned. The workshop concluded that the
   project made a very significant contribution to the development of the environmental institutions of Mexico, in
   the decentralization process for environmental management, and in setting the basis for the future work in this
   sector. The proceedings of this workshop and the Borrower's completion report are available from SEDESOL.




                                                        - 24 -

Administrative procedures. A detailed analysis of the administrative procedures (e.g., budgeting,
budget release, contracting and hiring of personnel) is absolutely necessary and should be carried out
during project preparation so that any potential obstacles can be discussed, negotiated and eventually
ameliorated before effectiveness. It is important that the project preparation team considers and
includes in the project, training for the administrative functions of the implementing agencies. Also, the
"Operations Manual" should explicitly describe the procedures to be used during project
implementation, including eligible expenditures and procurement, agreed to by the Government and the
Bank.

Procurement procedures. Similar to the previous point, it is essential that details of procurement
procedures and a project procurement plan be discussed early on and agreed to before effectiveness.
Also, at this stage, the preparation team should discuss and eventually include in the project's
activities, any assistance that this function would need to ensure that it performs well during project
implementation.

Although legally binding, Bank procedures are often not considered as prevailing among local staff
who feel bound only to follow Mexican procedures. In spite of significant advancement in this area,
some differences between the GoM and Bank procedures still remain and need to be worked out across
the board. When the state and municipal governments are involved in procurement as part of a
Bank-financed project, there is an additional dimension of complexity since the procurement procedures
of these sub-levels of government have to be reconciled with the GoM's and the Bank's procedures.
Consequently, capacity building and technical assistance by the Bank on procurement procedures to all
implementing agencies and to all levels of government (e.g., federal, state and municipal) involved in
project implementation is extremely important and should be made accessible throughout project
implementation.

Financial resources. Based on the experience of the NBEP, some key lessons for future projects in
Mexico include:

Ø Giventhepervasiveimbalancebetweenthenegotiatedproject'srequirementsandtheactual
      budgets authorized/allocated by SHCP to line ministries, it may be useful to involve staff from
      the SHCP budget department and perhaps even the SHCP treasury department during project
      preparation and loan negotiation,. While there is no guarantee that this would improve the
      resource allocation policies of SHCP, it could contribute to raising their awareness of the process
      and requirements involved from the line ministries' and the Bank's perspective for the execution
      of a project. This direct knowledge of what the project is trying to achieve and what
      commitments the GoM is making may help SHCP in making informed decisions when allocating
      resources between many competing programs/projects.
Ø Operationaltoolsneedtobedevelopedtoensurethatoncetheprojectfinancinghasbeenagreed
      to between the GoM and the Bank, the actual commitments are reflected in the assigned budgets
      of the implementing agencies.
Ø TheflowoffinancialresourcesfromBankloanstostatesandmunicipalitiesneedstobecome
      more agile and eventually more direct. The current scheme of flow of funds through line
      ministries often delays the implementation of key activities. Thus, under certain circumstances
      (when agreed criteria is met), exceptions should be considered for allowing direct disbursement
      to states and municipalities.




                                                 - 25 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                     - 26 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                             - 27 -

10. Additional Information

N.A.




                              - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

    Annex 1. Impact Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

    Component A: Institutional Strengthening

  Objective               Impact Indicators                                       Results
Strengthen the Recognized authority in the             PROFEPA is now a well-established and recognized
institutional  enforcement of environmental            institution in the country with programs of industrial
capacity of    legislation                             inspections for the management of hazardous substances,
PROFEPA                                                environmental audits, surveillance of forestry resources and
                                                       natural protected areas, a spill emergency response center,
                                                       and a public complaints system. These programs are
                                                       supported by a network of analytical laboratories,
                                                       computer-based information systems and a comprehensive
                                                       staff training program. Recently, the new Water Law also
                                                       gave PROFEPA enforcement responsibilities over liquid
                                                       effluents, previously carried out by the National Water
                                                       Commission.
Strengthen the Environmental agencies functioning      The six Border states have now environmental agencies
institutional  in all six Border states and all major  with trained staff and equipment, active participants in the
capacity of    municipalities.                         environmental and socio-economic planning and
States and                                             implementation. The agencies also carry out monitoring
Municipalities                                         for compliance with environmental legislation. Similarly,
in the border                                          the major cities and, in some states such as Baja California,
area                                                   Nuevo Leon and Tamaulipas, also the smaller
                                                       municipalities have equivalent capacities.
Strengthen the Information available for decision      The project continued the process, started by Mexico
capacity of    making (e.g., legislative and           Environmental Project (Loan 3461-ME), of
BANOBRAS,      permitting), and installed capacity     strengthening the National Ecology Institute (INE) by
INE,           capable of carrying out mandate         funding the systems and equipment needed to acquire,
SEMARNAT                                               store and process information, and by carrying out
and SEDESOL                                            studies that would serve as the basis for improved and/or
                                                       new environmental legislation.
Strengthen the Establishment and of an (i) integrated Due to lack of demand for sub-loans during the financial
finance and    public investment system; (ii)          and economic crisis that started in 1995, this
administration improvement of the accounting           subcomponent was cancelled.
programs       systems; (iii) improvement of the tax,
operation in   capital expenditure and recurrent
each of the    expenditure administration; (iv)
Border states  improvement of the cost control
               practices and public works
               administration; (v) improvement of
               the general management and
               personnel development practices; and
               (vi) establishing a multi-sectoral
               program to strengthen the
               management capacity in sectors such
               as environment, education, health
               and water supply and sanitation.




                                                    - 29 -

   Component C: Protection of ecological areas in the Border States (cancelled in 2001)

Protection of   Protection of El Pinacate y Gran       The reserves located in the Border states were strengthened
significant     Desierto de Altar (Baja California),   with the establishment of staffed units within each reserve,
biosphere       Alto Golfo de California y Delta del   and through support consisting of training, studies,
reserves in the Río Colorado (Sonora), Maderas del     acquisition of equipment, and the development of
Northern Border Carmen (Coahuila) y Cañón de Santa     management plans (for 5 out of 7 protected areas).
area            Elena (Chihuahua), Cuatrociénegas
                (Coahuila), Sierra de los Ajos Baviste
                y Sierra de Alamos Cuchujaqui
                (Sonora) and the proposed biosphere
                reserve of Laguna Madre
                (Tamaulipas)


   Note. At the request of the Government of Mexico and with the Bank's agreement, Components B, D
   and E were cancelled during the period 1995-96.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Table1: Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
 Project Cost By Component                               Appraisal       Actual       Percentage of
                                                         Estimate         (2003)        Appraisal
                                                          (1994)
 1. Institutional Strengthening                               172.00            34.67     20%
 2. Hazardous Waste Management                                  15.00           0.82       5%
 3. Biological Diversity and Ecological Areas                   15.00           0.96       6%
 4. Steet Paving                                              344.00            2.60       1%
 5. Infrastructure Investment Lines of Credit                 216.00            20.80     10%
                                 Total Project Costs          762.00            59.85     8%




Table 2: Project Financing by Category (US$ million equivalent)
Category                                Appraisal Estimate           Actual           Percentage of
                                                                                       Appraisal
                                        Bank         Govt.      Bank      Govt.      Bank      Govt.
Works                                      207.8        219.7       10.2     12.9    5%         6%
Goods                                        86.9        50.6       11.4      7.6    13%       15%
Consulting Services                          73.3        22.9       13.0      2.0    18%        9%
Recurrent Expenditures                                  100.8        0.5      2.3               2%
                            Total          368.0        394.0       35.1     24.8    10%        6%




                                                   - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              May 1993                   5    DIVISION CHIEF (1); ENV.
              (identification)                SPECIALIST-WATER (1);
                                              ENV. SPECIALIST (1); ENV.
                                              ECONOMIST/TASK
                                              MANAGER (1); RESEARCH
                                              ASSISTANT (1)
              July 1993                17     ENV. SPECIALIST (3); ENV.
              (preparation)                   SPECIALIST-AIR
                                              POLLUTION/TRANSPORT (1);
                                              URBAN SPECIALIST (1).
                                              OTHER STAFF AND
                                              CONSULTANTS (12)*
              September 1993           10     TASK MANAGER (1); ENV.
              (pre-appraisal)                 SPECIALIST- HAZ. WASTE
                                              (1); URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                                              TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                              OPERATIONS ADVISER (1);
                                              OTHER STAFF AND
                                              CONSULTANTS (5).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              July 1994                25     TASK MANAGER (1);
                                              ENV. SPECIALIST-
                                              PROTECTED AREAS (1);
                                              ECONOMIST (1); ADMIN.
                                              ASSISTANT (1); OTHER
                                              STAFF AND
                                              CONSULTANTS (21)

 Supervision
               July 1994                 3    TASK MANAGER (1) ENV.            S               S
                                              SPECIALIST- HAZ.
                                              WASTE (1); ENV.
                                              SPECIALIST (1).
              September 1994             4    TASK MANAGER (1) ENV.            S               S
                                              SPECIALIST- HAZ. WASTE
                                              (1); ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
               January 1995              2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                              ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1)
              October 1995               1     URBAN TRANSPORT                 U               S
                                              ENGINEER (1)
              March 1996                 5    TEAM MANAGER (1); ENV.           U               S
                                              SPECIALIST (1) WATER
                                              SPECIALIST (1); SOLID
                                              WASTE SPECIALIST (1);



                                               - 33 -

                                                      INFRASTRUCTURE/FIN.
                                                      SPECIALIST (1)
              June 1996                         2     ENV. SPECIALIST (2)                    U             S
              July 1997                         4     INFRASTRUCTURE/FIN.                    S             U
                                                      SPECIALIST (1);
                                                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                      (1); URBAN DEV. SPE (1);
                                                      TM/ENV. SPECIALIST (1).
              Nov. 1997                         1     TASK MANAGER / ENV                     S             U
                                                      SPECIALIST (1)
              July 1998                         2     TEAM LEADER (1) / ENV.                 S             S
                                                      SPECIALIST (1)
              Oct. 1998                         2     TEAM LEADER (1) / ENV.                 S             S
                                                      SPECIALIST (1)
              June 1999                         4     TASK MANAGER (1); ENV.                 S             S
                                                      SPECIALIST (2); NATURAL
                                                      RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
                                                      SPECIALIST (1)
              Nov. 1999                         2     TEAM LEADER (1) / ENV.                 S             S
                                                      SPECIALIST (1)
              Feb. 2000                         1     ENV. SPECIALIST                        S             S
              October 2000                      2     TTL- ENV. SPECIALIST (1)               S             S
                                                      ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
              March 2000                        1     TEAM LEADER (1)                        S             S
              October 2000                      2     TTL- ENV. SPECIALIST (1);              S             S
                                                      ENV. SPECIALIST (1).
              Feb. 2001                         2     TTL - ENV. SPECIALIST (1);             S             S
                                                      ENV. SPECIALIST (1)
              Nov. 2001                         4     ENV. SPECIALIST (1);                   S             S
                                                      DECENTRALIZATION
                                                      SPECIALIST (1); ENV.
                                                      ECONOMIST (1); TTL- ENV.
                                                      SPECIALIST (1)
              March 2002                        3     TTL - ENV. SPECIALIST (1);             S             S
                                                      ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                                      SECTOR LEADER (1).
              Nov. 2002                         3     TTL-ENV. SPECIALIST (1);               S             S
                                                      ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                                      SECTOR LEADER (1).
              March 2003                        2     TTL-ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                                                      ENV. SPECIALIST (1).

ICR
              July 2003                        2      TTL-ENV. SPECIALIST                    S             U
                                                      (1), ENV. SPECIALIST (1)

* Preparatory missions included joint missions with the supervision of the Mexico Environmental Program -PAM.




                                                      - 34 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           145.3                         447.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 35.4                         118.2
  Supervision                          194.3                         484.0
  ICR                                     9.0                          30.5
  Total                                384.0                       1,080.1




                                            - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

Mexico Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).

Project Information Document (PID).

Staff Appraisal Report

Identification Mission Terms of Reference and Aide-Memoire.

Preparation Mission Terms of Reference and Aide-Memoire.

Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference and Aide-Memoire.

Agreed Minutes of Negotiation.


Bank project implementation documents

Loan Agreement.

Amendments to the Loan Agreement.

Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Management Letters and Project Status Reports of all
the Supervision Missions.


Borrower project implementation documents

Informes de Avance....Project Implementation Unit.

Evaluacion de las Acciones del programa de la Frontera Norte (3750-ME), en la Consolidacion Urbano
Ambiental en Ciudades de la Frontera Norte. Diciembre 9, 2003




                                                 - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR




                                     - 39 -

- 40 -

- 41 -

- 42 -

- 43 -

- 44 -

- 45 -

- 46 -

- 47 -

- 48 -

Additional Annex 9. Detailed Description of Outputs by Component

A.1 Institutional Strengthening of PROFEPA

A..1 a) Subprocuraduria de Auditoria Ambiental (Office of the Deputy Attorney General for Environmental
Audits)

                                          Environmental Audits Program
                                                      Studies

Year                                       Title/Type of Study                                  No. of
                                                                                                Studies
1996     Development of procedures for the certification of environmental auditors and experts    1
1996     Follow-up of action plans resulting from environmental audits for 40 companies.          5
1996     Technical assistance for 38 medium and small-size firms.                                 3
1997     Follow-up of action plans resulting from environmental audits for 87 companies.          9
1997     Support for 38 medium and small-size firms.                                              4
1998     Follow-up of action plans resulting from the environmental audit to the company Teñidos  1
         San Juan, SA de CV.
1998     Follow-up of action plans resulting from environmental audits for 88 companies           9
1999     Design of procedures of environmental audits through information systems.                1
1999     Follow-up of action plans resulting from environmental audits for 40 companies           4
1999     Technical assistance for small and micro industries to support 28 companies              3
2000     Follow-up of action plans resulting from environmental audits for 30 companies           3
2000     Technical assistance for small and micro industries for 29 companies.                    3
2002     Environmental performance indicators in the chemical and metallurgic industry.           1
2002     Definition of a program for implementation of environmental compliance audits in the     1
         medium and small-size firms.
2002     Environmental performance indicators in both the cement and agrochemical and             1
         fertilizers industries.
2003     Environmental compliance audit in the Salinas Cruz Oaxaca Municipality.                  1




                                                       - 49 -

                                    Environmental Emergencies Program
                                                   Studies

Year                                         Title/Type of Study
1996  Implementation of a national system for environmental emergencies
1997  Procedures and technical manual for the implementation of preventive, corrective, and security
      measures for environmental emergencies.
1998  Manual for chemical substances related to environmental emergencies
1999  Development of 7 manuals for chemical substances related to environmental emergencies in
      Mexico.
2000  Comparative evaluation of models for dispersion of soil contaminants (hydrocarbons and heavy
      metals)
2000  Comparative evaluation of methods and analytical techniques for the identification of soil
      contaminants mainly in heavy soils, as a result of environmental emergencies or contingencies.



                                             Contaminated Sites

Year                                         Title/Type of Study
1996 Inventory of contaminated sites and preliminary evaluation of environmental damage in the State
     of Baja California
1997 Inventory of contaminated sites and preliminary evaluation of environmental damage in the State
     of Sonora
1997 Inventory of contaminated sites and preliminary evaluation of environmental damage in the State of
     Coahuila
1997 Inventory of contaminated sites and preliminary evaluation of environmental damage in the State of
     Chihuahua
1997 Inventory of contaminated sites and preliminary evaluation of environmental damage in the State of
     Tamaulipas
1997 Characterization of contaminated sites in Guanajuato
1997 Characterization of contaminated sites in San Luis Potosi
1997 Evaluation and diagnostic of the current environmental situation of the technical confinement of
     industrial wastes, S.A. of C.V. La Pedraza site, Guadalcazar municipality.
1998 Inventory of abandoned sites and preliminary evaluation of environmental damages in the State of
     Hidalgo
1998 Inventory of abandoned sites and preliminary evaluation of environmental damages in the State of
     Jalisco
1998 Inventory of abandoned sites and preliminary evaluation of environmental damages in the State of
     Queretaro
1998 Inventory of abandoned sites and preliminary evaluation of environmental damages in the State of
     Mexico Phase 1
1998 Inventory of abandoned sites and preliminary evaluation of environmental damages in the State of
     Veracruz, Phase 1
1998 Detailed characterization of abandoned site with hazardous wastes in mines of San Javier, in San
     Javier Sonora
1998 Detailed characterization of abandoned site with hazardous wastes in mines in Rolando Garza in
     the Pesqueria municipality, Monterrey Nuevo Leon.
1998 Detailed characterization of abandoned site with hazardous wastes in Huachara in the Urique
     Chihuahua municipality
1998 Detailed characterization of abandoned site with hazardous wastes in Metromental in Ciudad




                                                     - 50 -

     Reynosa Tamaulipas
1998 Detailed characterization of abandoned site with hazardous wastes in Norestaño, in Ciudad Reynosa
     Tamaulipas
1999 Inventory of contaminated abandoned sites with hazardous wastes and preliminary evaluation of
     environmental damages in the State of Veracruz, Phase 2
1999 Inventory of contaminated abandoned sites with hazardous wastes and preliminary evaluation of
     environmental damages in the State of Mexico Phase 2
1999 Inventory of contaminated abandoned sites with hazardous wastes and preliminary evaluation of
     environmental damages in the State of Puebla
1999 Inventory of contaminated abandoned sites with hazardous wastes and preliminary evaluation of
     environmental damages in the State of Tlaxcala
1999 Inventory of contaminated abandoned sites with hazardous wastes and preliminary evaluation of
     environmental damages in the State of Morelos
1999 Characterization of the contaminated site with hazardous metal waste and derivatives in the State of
     Baja California
1999 Characterization of the contaminated site with hazardous waste Juntitas in Jalisco
1999 Characterization of the contaminated site with hazardous waste Gavilanes in Jalisco
1999 Characterization of the contaminated site with hazardous waste in the State of Mexico
1999 Characterization of the contaminated site with hazardous waste Km. 193 in San Luis Potosi
1999 Characterization of the contaminated site with hazardous waste Periferico Sur in San Luis Potosi
1999 Characterization of the contaminated site with hazardous waste Mina Roicler in Zacatecas
1999 Characterization of the contaminated sites with hazardous waste in Cortijo laGloria in Guanajuato
2000 Inventory of contaminated abandoned sites with hazardous wastes and preliminary evaluation of
     environmental damages in the State of Aguascalientes
2000 Inventory of contaminated abandoned sites with hazardous wastes and preliminary evaluation of
     environmental damages in the State of Campeche
2000 Inventory of contaminated abandoned sites with hazardous wastes and preliminary evaluation of
     environmental damages in the State of Michoacan
2000 Inventory of contaminated abandoned sites with hazardous wastes and preliminary evaluation of
     environmental damages in the State of Tabasco
2000 Detailed characterization of the abandoned site with hazardous wastes in industrial cemetery
     Hidalgo in Ciudad Sahagún, Hidalgo.
2000 Detailed characterization of the abandoned site with hazardous wastes in Minas Mococozac in
     Zacatecas
2000 Detailed characterization of the abandoned site with hazardous wastes in the deodorized
     hydrocarbon industry in Nopalcalco, Puebla.
2000 Detailed characterization of the abandoned site with hazardous wastes in the Minera el Rosario
     Mexico, in Morelos
2000 Detailed characterization of the abandoned site with hazardous wastes in the landfill of Tultitlan in
     the State of Mexico
2000 Detailed characterization of the abandoned site with hazardous wastes in the Cuisaron, Morelos
2000 Detailed characterization of the abandoned site with hazardous wastes in the Ecatepec, State of
     Mexico




                                                    - 51 -

A.1.b. Inspection and Surveillance Program for Contaminated Industrial Sites

                                 Inspection Visits to Industrial and Service Firms


Action         1994    1995     1996     1997       1998      1999     2000      2001   2002    2003*

Inspection 12,902     12,900    13,148   12,221      9,590    8,671    8,426     7,912   7,619   6,052
Visits
    *Jan ­ Oct /2003
                                           Results of Inspection Visits

Action                                                  Per One-hundred Visits
                       1994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000    2001    2002   2003*
Temporary Total        .58      .53      .54        .37      .47      .76      .83     .80     .58     .66
Closure
Temporary Partial      2.45     1.53     1.38      1.29     1.12      .91      1.06   1.18     .79     .91
Closure
Minor irregularities 78.10     70.89    72.54     78.02    76.71     78.56    75.91   75.40   72.32   72.72
No irregularities     18.87    27.05    25.54     20.32    21.70     19.77    22.21   22.62   26.32   25.71
    *Jan ­ Oct /2003

A.1 d) Inspection and Surveillance: Natural Resources Subcomponent

                        Inspection and Surveillance Visits concerning Natural Resources

  Actions/Visits     1995     1996     1997      1998       1999      2000      2001    2002     2003*
Forest Resources      745     4,261   5,756       687       5,189     3,483     6,271   7,601    6,729
Wildlife              808     2.069   1,833       781       1,647      873      1,653   2,224    1,906
Marine Resources      N.D     3,629   3,326      3,362     10,082     4,924     1,664   2,177    1,660
ZOFEMAT                5       411      399        781       767       503      1,294   2,139    1,824
Environmental         389      538      467       687       1,061      628      1,180   1,770    1,822
Impact
    *Jan ­ Oct /2003




                                                       - 52 -

A.2 Capacity Building

Year                                                  Study
1995  Capacity building program "Hazardous Waste Management"
1995  Capacity building program on environmental audits
1995  Capacity building program on hazardous waste management
1996  Courses on environmental audits for the small-size micro-industry
1996  Course on follow-up of action plans resulting from environmental audits and the training workshop
      for the supervision of environmental audits
1996  Course on accident simulation in the high-risk industry
1996  Courses on environmental audit in the metal-mechanic industry and the paint-solvent industry
1997  Capacity building "Follow-Up of Action Plans Resulting from Environmental Audits"
1997  Capacity building "Environmental Audits in the Small and Micro Industry"
1997  Capacity building "Environmental Audits in the Maquiladora Industry and Environmental Audits
      in Gas Distribution Facilities for Industrial and Domestic Use"
1997  Training Course for Hazardous Waste Management
1998  Environmental Audit Course in the Maquiladora Industry
1998  Course on planning and environmental emergencies response resulting from industrial activities
1998  Course on environmental audits and environmental administrative systems
2002  Technical methodologies to evaluate high risk activities



A.3 Information Systems ­ Institutional Strengthening and Development

Year                                                  Study
2001   Structural reform to decentralize functions of PROFEPA
2001   Upgrading program for planning, evaluation, and integral control of the substantive functions of
       PROFEPA
2001   Upgrading program for planning, evaluation, and integral control of the substantive functions of
       PROFEPA: Second Phase
2002   Study of processes of obligation, detection, and charge for economic sanctions in PROFEPA
2002   First edition of the General Law of Ecological Balance and environmental protection discussed
2003   SIIP migration to a new version accessible through the internet
2003   Analysis, design, and development of complementary indicators for SIIE for decision-making
2003   Migration of SIIE to a new version accessible through the internet




                                                       - 53 -

A.5 (a) Strengthening of Institutional Capacity of Border States and their Municipalities

Year                                 Course                                 State/Municipality
1996   Capacity building course for the Program for Strengthening      Coahuila
       Environmental Management in the State of Coahuila
1996   Capacity building program for the H. Ayuntamiento de Ciudad     Ciudad Juárez, Chih.
       Juarez, Chihuahua
1996   Course on decentralization of environmental management for the  Coahuila
       State of Coahuila
1996   Capacity building program for the Program for Strengthening     Chihuahua
       Environmental Management in the State of Chihuahua
1998   Basic Module of capacity building "Pollution Control and        Matamoros, Tamaulipas
       Prevention" in the Matamoros Municipality, Tamaulipas
1998   Capacity building course for the Program for Strengthening      Baja California
       Environmental Management in the State of Baja California
1999   Capacity building course for the Program for Strengthening      Sonora
       Environmental Management in the State of Sonora
1999   Capacity building course for the Program for Strengthening      Matamoros, Tamauliupas
       Environmental Management in the Matamoros Municipality,
       Tamaulipas
1999   Capacity building course for the Program for Strengthening      Reynosa, Tamaulipas
       Environmental Management in the Reynosa Municipality,
       Tamaulipas
1999   Capacity building course for the Program for Strengthening      Nuevo Leon
       Environmental Management in the State of Nuevo Leon
2003   Practical Course of risks analysis in the processes using the   Chihuahua
       software SCRI-MODELS, version 3.1, SCRI- HAZOP and SCRI
2003   Course-workshop for environmental management of municipal       Baja California y Sonora
       solid wastes handling
2003   Seminar-workshop on updating, integration, consultation and     Baja California
       analysis of geographical information, using ARC VIEW GIS and
       GPS technology




                                                       - 54 -

Strengthening of Environmental Management Capacity of Border States and
                                  Municipal Governments

                                              Consultancies/Studies

Year                              Study                                     State/Municipality
1994  Terms of reference for five studies of the State and           Northern Border
      Municipal Environmental Management Strengthening
      Subcomponent for the NBEP
1997  Design of a monitoring system for air quality for Ciudad       Cd. Juarez, Chihuahua
      Juarez, Chihuahua
1998  Design of a monitoring system for air quality for Ciudad de    Ciudad de Chihuahua
      Chihuahua
1998  Establishment of municipal regulations regarding ecological    Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas
      matters of the Nuevo Laredo Municipality, Tamaulipas
1998  Selection of objective criteria for the definition of          Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas
      environmental fines of the Nuevo Laredo Municipality,
      Tamaulipas
1998  Management plan for the ecological protected area "Colonias Tamaulipas
      Parras de la Fuente", Abasolo Municipality, Tamaulipas
2003  Proposal of a prototype for regulation municipal in the        Baja California
      environmental protection matter for the Baja California State
2003  Characterization of the physical, chemical and biological      Baja California and Sonora
      factors for the environmental diagnostic of Playas de Rosarito,
      B.C. and Puerto Peñasco, Son
2003  Study for the accomplishment of an inventory of irregular      Baja California and Sonora
      municipal waste landfill in Playas de Rosarito and Tijuana in
      Baja California State, and Puerto Peñasco in Sonora State




                                                       - 55 -

A.6 e) Strengthening of the institutional capacity of INE/ SEMARNAT

                                                 Consultancies/Studies

Year                                 Study                                           Beneficiary
1998   Report on the environmental condition of natural resources in     Northern Border
       the Northern Border
1999   Registry, development, and renovation of four units for           General Office of Wildlife-INE
       conservation, management, and sustainable use of wildlife
       (UMA's)
1999   Strengthening of hazardous waste management in federal            General Office of Hazardous
       entities                                                          Materials, Waste, and Activities ­
                                                                         INE
2000   Integration of technical criteria that serve as the basis for the General Office of Hazardous
       development of official Mexican regulations regarding             Materials, Waste, and Activities ­
       restoration of contaminated soils                                 INE
2000   Detection of needs in federal entities regarding reduction and    General Office of Hazardous
       integral management of industrial hazardous waste                 Materials, Waste, and Activities ­
                                                                         INE
2000   Impact of NBEP resources on the environmental management          Northern Border
       of the States of Baja California, Sonora, Chihuahua, Coahuila,
       Nuevo Leon, Tamaulipas, and their municipalities
2000   Digital information systems of the NBEP products                  Northern Border
2002   Consultant for the internal control of management of the          Strategic Financing Unit
       execution of the Northern Border Environment Project
2002   Consultancy for the systematization of the information about      Strategic financing Unit
       projects financed with external resources
2002   Consultancy to establish a methodology of analysis and            Strategic financing Unit
       allocation of resources of external financing for the own
       projects of the SEMARNAT
2002   Study of factors of diesel emission generation for vehicles that  General Office of Air Quality
       circulate in the northern border
2002   Study of characterization of the atmospheric river basins of      General Office of Air Quality
       Juarez City, for the establishment of mechanisms of
       interchange of emissions
2002   Consultant for the executive management of the Northern           Regional and Sectoral
       Border Environment Project                                        Environmental Unit
2002   Consultant for the operative following of the Northern Border     Regional and Sectoral
       Environment Project                                               Environmental Unit
2002   Development of analytical tools for the ecological ordering of    Regional and Sectoral
       the territory in the northern border: Applications of dynamic     Environmental Unit
       space models.
2003   Updating of Report of the Environmental State and the Natural Strategic financing Unit
       Resources in the Northern Border of Mexico
2003   Consultant for the internal control of management at the end of Strategic financing Unit
       the execution of the Northern Border Environment Project
2003   Consultant for the technical following at the end of the          Regional and Sectorial
       execution of the Northern Border Environment Project              Environmental Unit
2003   Consultant for the executive management at the end of the         Regional and Sectorial
       execution of the Northern Border Environment Project              Environmental Unit
2003   Consultant for the administration support at the end of the       Regional and Sectorial
       execution of the Northern Border Environment Project              Environmental Unit



                                                         - 56 -

B.1 Studies for Hazardous Waste Management

                                               Consultancies/Studies

1994   Risk analysis of the impact of hazardous wastes on human        General Office of Hazardous
       health                                                          Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1994   Identification and prioritization of hazardous wastes           General Office of Hazardous
       contaminated sites                                              Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1995   Geographic information atlas for the localization of            General Office of Hazardous
       infrastructure zones for hazardous waste management             Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1995   Balance of hazardous waste movement and the tracking            General Office of Hazardous
       system                                                          Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1995   Information and communication regarding hazardous waste         General Office of Hazardous
                                                                       Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1996   Updating of Mexican regulations on municipal solid wastes       General Office of Hazardous
       and upgrading to Official Mexican Regulations                   Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1996   Application of "Help" methodology to Mexican conditions,        General Office of Hazardous
       developing a climatologic and characteristic soil parameters    Materials, Wastes, and Activities
       database
1996   National atlas to control de degradation of hydraulic           General Office of Hazardous
       resources, generated by poor-practices used by hazardous        Materials, Wastes, and Activities
       waste ordering
1996   Development of the registry system for emission and transfer    General Office of Hazardous
       of contaminants (RETC)                                          Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1996   Model documents for concession and/or privatization of          General Office of Hazardous
       urban hygiene services                                          Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1996   Strategies for the formulation of master plans for solid        General Office of Hazardous
       wastes in the Northern Border                                   Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1996   Strategies and procedures for developing the National           General Office of Hazardous
       Program for Waste Reduction and Recycling                       Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1997   Technical and legal analysis to decentralize DGMRAR             General Office of Hazardous
       functions to the Delegations                                    Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1997   Definition of testing protocols for management and              General Office of Hazardous
       treatment of infectious biological wastes                       Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1997   Design systems for capture and transport of leachate and        General Office of Hazardous
       run-off in a landfill, considering the results generated by the Materials, Wastes, and Activities
       implementation of the "Help" model
1997   Study for the instrumentation of NOM-084-ECOL-96 which          General Office of Hazardous
       establishes the design, construction, operation, and            Materials, Wastes, and Activities
       monitoring requirements of a landfill
1997   Study of the installation of synthetic geomembranes in final    General Office of Hazardous
       disposal cells in landfills and hazardous waste confinement     Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1997   Identify areas affected by mining activities in Mexico and its  General Office of Hazardous
       awareness strategy                                              Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1997   Procedures and recommendations for the management and           General Office of Hazardous
       final disposal of hospital waste                                Materials, Wastes, and Activities
1997   Verification and consolidation of the national hazardous        General Office of Hazardous
       waste inventory                                                 Materials, Wastes, and Activities




                                                       - 57 -

C. Biodiversity and Protected Areas
                                              Consultancies/Studies

Year                               Study                                       Beneficiary
1995  Castor status in Mexicali Valley, B.C.                          General Office of Conservation
                                                                      and Ecology
1995  Inventory of coastal flora and fauna--Northeast Region          General Office of Conservation
      Marina in the Gulf of California Region.                        and Ecology
1995  Mammals of the Northern Border                                  General Office of Conservation
                                                                      and Ecology
1995  Management plan for the reserve: Cañon Santa Elena,             General Office of Conservation
      Chihuahua                                                       and Ecology
1995  Fauna and flora management plan for the reserve: Maderas        General Office of Conservation
      del Carmen, Coahuila                                            and Ecology
1996  Biological diversity of Mexico's northeast prairie              General Office of Conservation
                                                                      and Ecology
1996  Prior study to the Declaration in the natural area Laguna       General Office of Conservation
      Madre in Tamaulipas                                             and Ecology
1996  Study of extractive activities of non-metal minerals in the     General Office of Conservation
      Biosphere Reserve El Pinacate and Gran Desierto de Altar,       and Ecology
      Sonora
1996  Flora and fauna inventory of Laguna Madre, Tamaulipas           General Office of Conservation
                                                                      and Ecology
1996  Terrestrial mammals of Baja California                          General Office of Conservation
                                                                      and Ecology
1996  Management plan for the Flora and Fauna Protected Area          General Office of Conservation
      Cañon de Santa Elena, Chihuahua                                 and Ecology
1996  Management plan for the Flora and Fauna Protected Area          General Office of Conservation
      Maderas del Carmen, Coahuila                                    and Ecology
1996  Revision of the current situation of the flora in the riverine  General Office of Conservation
      habitats in the northern frontier zone of the State of Sonora   and Ecology
1996  Zoning of the Alto Golfo de California and Delta del Rio        General Office of Conservation
      Colorado Biosphere Reserve                                      and Ecology
1996  Zoning of the Pinacate and Gran Desierto de Altar Biosphere     General Office of Conservation
      Reserve, Sonora.                                                and Ecology
1997  Evaluation of the Borrego Cimarron population. Habitat and      General Office of Conservation
      human impact in the Pinacate and Gran Desierto de Altar         and Ecology
      Biosphere Reserve, Sonora.
1997  Workshop course on community participation in the Alto          General Office of Conservation
      Golfo de California and Delta del Rio Colorado Biosphere        and Ecology
      Reserve
1998  Creation of the Ecotourism subprogram for the Pinacate and      General Office of Conservation
      Gran Desierto de Altar Biosphere Reserve, Sonora.               and Ecology
1998  Planning of a sustainable development strategy for the local    General Office of Conservation
      communities in the Pinacate and Gran Desierto de Altar          and Ecology
      Biosphere Reserve, Sonora
1999  Study on the impact of cattle ranching on wild fauna habitat    General Office of Conservation
      in the Flora and Fauna Protected Area Maderas del Carmen.       and Ecology
1999  Flora inventory in Sierra Rica and analysis of wild fauna and   General Office of Conservation
      flora in the Protected Area Cañon de Santa Elena.               and Ecology




                                                       - 58 -

- 59 -

- 60 -

