Page  1
February 15, 1995
Mr. Jonathan Davis Arzac
Director General de Credito Publico
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio Nacional
Patio Central, piso 4
Despacho 4037
06066 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Mr. Jesus Reyes Heroles
Director General
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
Tecoyotitla 100
Colonia Florida
01030 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Re:
Loan No. 3750-ME (Northern Border Environment
Project) Amendment to the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements and to the Implementation Letter
Re:
Loan No. 3751-ME (Second Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector Project) Amendment to the
Loan Agreement
Re:
Loan No. 3752-ME (Second Solid Waste
Management Project) Amendment to the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Loan Agreements between International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios 
Publicos, S.N.C. (the Borrower), to the Guarantee Agreements between the United 
Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank and to the
Implementation Letter referred to in the captions above (all as previously amended, 
where pertinent).  We are pleased to inform you that, as a result of our recent 
discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend said Agreements and 
Implementation Letter as follows:
LOAN 3750-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
1.
Section 1.02 (x) is hereby deliberately left blank by deleting all its text 
immediately after "(x)". 
2.
Section 1.02 (z) is hereby amended by replacing the word "SEDESOL's" with the 
words "the Guarantor's".
3.
Section 1.02 (ab) is hereby deliberately left blank by deleting all its text 
immediately after "(ab)".
4.
Section 1.02 (ak) is hereby amended by replacing the word "SEDESOL's" with the 
words "the Guarantor's".
5.
Section 1.02 (am) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
""Second Solid Waste Management Project" means the project financed with the proceeds 
Page  2
of Bank loan 3752-ME pursuant to the October 2, 1994 loan and guarantee agreements, as 
such agreements may be amended from time to time, between the Bank and the Borrower 
and between the Bank and the Guarantor, respectively;".
6.
Consistent with the above amendments, the Loan Agreement is hereby further 
amended by changing all other references therein to the "Loan Text" for the Second 
Solid Waste Management Project so as to become references to the "loan agreement" for 
the Second Solid Waste Management Project; likewise, the Loan Agreement is hereby 
further amended by changing all other references therein to the "Guarantee Text" for 
the Second Solid Waste Management Project so as to become
references to the "guarantee agreement" for the Second Solid Waste Management Project.
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
7.
Consistent with the above amendments, the Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended 
by changing all references therein to the "Loan Text" for the Second Solid Waste 
Management Project so as to become references to the "loan agreement" for the Second 
Solid Waste Management Project; likewise, the Guarantee Agreement is hereby further 
amended by changing all references therein to the "Guarantee Text" for the Second 
Solid Waste Management Project so as to become references to the
"guarantee agreement" for the Second Solid Waste Management Project.
IMPLEMENTATION LETTER
8.
The second page of the Implementation Letter is hereby amended by deleting the 
words "Loan and Guarantee Texts (Second Solid Waste Management Project)".
9.
The contents of Annex G of the Implementation Letter is hereby deleted.
 
LOAN 3751-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
10.
Section 1.02 (g) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
""Environmental Preventive Reports" means informes preventivos prepared in accordance 
with the Guarantor's Environment Secretariat's (Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos 
Naturales y Pesca) rules and regulations.".
LOAN 3752-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
11.
Section 7.01 (b) is hereby amended by replacing the term "Section 4.05 (d)" with 
the term "Section 4.05 (d) (iv)".
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
12.
Section 3.02 is hereby amended by replacing the words "through SEDESOL" with the 
words "through SEDESOL (with regard to paragraphs (a), (b), (d) and (e) of this 
Section) and through INE (with regard to paragraph (c) of this Section)".
13.
Section 3.10 is hereby amended by replacing the word "SEDESOL" with the word 
"INE".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
nine counterparts (three per Loan), each of which shall be an original.  Upon your 
confirmation, please return three fully
executed originals to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter will become 
effective upon:  (i) effectiveness of the Loan Agreement for Loan 3750-ME (with 
respect to the portions of this letter regarding Loan 3750-ME), effectiveness of the 
Loan Agreement for Loan 3751-ME (with respect to the portions of this letter regarding 
Loan 3751-ME) and effectiveness of the Loan Agreement for Loan 3752-ME (with respect 
to the portions of this letter regarding Loan 3752-ME), all based on legal
opinions which reflect the amendments contained herein; and (ii) receipt by the Bank 
Page  3
of three fully executed original of this amendment letter.  The event described in 
point (ii) of this paragraph must occur before any effectiveness described in point 
(i) of this paragraph can occur.
In addition, please note that your signature of this letter shall be deemed by 
the Bank to constitute your agreement that the text of the Implementation Letters for 
each of the Projects covered by this letter shall be interpreted in a manner 
consistent with the amendments contained in this letter (and thus in a manner 
consistent with the changes in public sector environmental agencies set forth in the 
Decreto que reforma, adiciona y deroga diversas disposiciones de la Ley
Organica de la Administracion Publica Federal, published in the Guarantor's Diario 
Oficial de la Federacion on December 28, 1994).
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edilberto L. Segura
Director
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Martin Werner
Authorized Representative
Date: March 29, 1995
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
By /s/ Alfredo F. Navarrete Martinez
Authorized Representative
Date: March 22, 1995
