Page  1
April 21, 1998
Mr. Jaime Corredor Esnaola 
Director General 
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. 
Tecoyotitla 100 
Colonia Florida 
01030 México, D.F. México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 
03100  México, D.F. México 
Re:    Loan 3750-ME (Northern Border Environment Project) Amendment to 
the Loan 
Agreement, Guarantee Agreement and Implementation 
Letter 
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. (the 
Borrower) dated June 10, 1994, as well as to the Guarantee Agreement of even date 
therewith between the Bank and the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the 
Implementation Letter of even date therewith from the Guarantor and the Borrower to 
the Bank, all pertaining to the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you 
of our agreement to amend said Loan and Guarantee Agreements and Implementation Letter 
as follows:
Loan Agreement
1.
Sections 1.02 (a), (h), (i), (j), (k), (u), (v), (af), (ag), (al), (am), (an), 
(aq), (av), (aw), (ax), (ay), (az), (ba), (bb), (bc), (bd), (be), (bf), (bg), (bh), 
(bi) and (bj) are all hereby deliberately left blank.
2.
Section 1.02 (n) is hereby amended by inserting the words “or “Grant Agreement” 
” immediately after the words “ “EM Grant Agreement” ”.
3.
Section 1.02 (o) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “ “EM 
Recipient” means a Border State or a municipality thereof to which the Guarantor, 
through INE, proposes to make or has made an EM Grant;”.
4.
Section 1.02 (q) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “ “FA 
Subborrower” or “Subborrower” means a Border State or a municipality thereof or an 
Operating Agency to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made an FA Subloan 
(i.e., a finance and administration or multi-sectoral subloan);”.
5.
Section 1.02 (r) is hereby amended by inserting the words “or “Subloan” ” 
immediately after the words “ “FA Subloan” ”.
6.
Section 1.02 (s) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “ “FA 
Subloan Agreement” or “Subloan Agreement” means an agreement (of which there shall be 
one per FA Subproject component), satisfactory to the Bank, between the Borrower and 
an FA Subborrower, which agreement contains the terms and conditions of an FA 
Subloan;”.
7.
Section 1.02 (t) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “ “FA 
Subproject” or “Subproject” means either:  (i) any one of the following specific 
finance and administration institutional strengthening project components to be 
carried out by an FA Subborrower utilizing the proceeds of an FA Subloan pursuant to 
Part A.5 (b) (i) of the Project:
(A)
a diagnostic component, consisting of the identification of the FA 
Subborrower’s finance and administration institutional strengthening needs and design 
Page  2
of a technical assistance (and goods, if necessary) package to meet such needs; and
(B)
an implementation component, consisting of the application of such 
package to meet such needs; or
(ii) a multi-sectoral management strengthening project component to be carried out by 
an FA Subborrower utilizing the proceeds of an FA Subloan pursuant to Part A.5 (b) 
(ii) of the Project;”.
8.
Section 1.02 (y) is hereby amended by deleting the words “Northern Border 
Environment Project”.
9.
Section 1.02 (z) is hereby amended by replacing the word “SEDESOL’s” with the 
word “SEMARNAP’s”.
10.
Section 1.02 (ak) is hereby amended by replacing the word “SEDESOL’s” with the 
word “SEMARNAP’s”.
11.
Section 1.02 (at) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“ “Operating Agency” means a water supply and sanitation enterprise that:  (i) is 
majority owned and/or controlled by a Border State or municipality thereof; but (ii) 
is not an entity of the public administration of a Border State or municipality 
thereof;”.
12.
Section 3.01 (a) (ii) is hereby amended by deleting the words “and to carry out 
Parts E.1, E.2 and E.3 (a) of the Project”.
13.
Section 3.01 (a) (iii) is hereby amended by replacing the words “Parts A.5 (b), 
E.1, E.2 and E.3 (a)” with the words “Part A.5 (b)”.
14.
Section 3.01 (c) (i) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“that the effective date of such amendment applicable to the Affected Proceeds of each 
UDI-denominated FA Subloan shall be the amendment date referred to in paragraph 7 (a) 
(i) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement (hereinafter the Benchmark Date);”.
15.
Section 4.01 is hereby amended by replacing the words “Parts A.5 (b), A.6 (a), 
E.1, E.2 and E.3 (a)”, wherever they appear, with the words “Parts A.6 (a) and A.5 
(b)”.
16.
Section 4.02 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the words “Parts A.5 (b), E.1, 
E.2 and E.3 (a)” with the words “Part A.5 (b)”, as well as by deliberately leaving 
subparagraphs (ii), (iii) and (iv) thereof blank.
17.
Section 4.04 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “The 
Borrower shall prepare the operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank and referred 
to in Part A.6 (a) of the Project, which manual shall be adhered to in carrying out 
Part A.5 (b) of the Project.”
18.
Section 4.05 is hereby amended by replacing the words “Parts A.5 (b), A.6 (a), 
E.1, E.2 and E.3 (a)” with the words “Parts A.6 (a) and A.5 (b)”.
19.
Sections 4.06 (c), (d) and (e) are hereby deliberately left blank.
20.
Section 4.07 is hereby deliberately left blank.
21.
Section 4.08 is hereby amended by replacing the words “Parts A.1 through A.4, 
A.5 (a), A.6 (b) through (d), B, C, D and E.3 (b)” with the words “Parts A.1 through 
A.4, A.5 (a), A.6 (d), A.6 (e) and C”.
22.
Sections 6.01 (c), (d) and (e) are hereby deliberately left blank.
23.
Section 6.02 (b) is hereby deliberately left blank.
24.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety 
as set forth in Attachment A to this letter.
25.
Schedule 1, paragraph 2 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
Page  3
entirety: “ “incremental operating costs” means recurrent costs (such as for salaries, 
consumable office supplies, travel, per diems, rental, utility services, etc.) which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project; and”.
26.
Schedule 1, paragraph 2 (b) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety: “ “consultant services” shall not include services by the professional or 
technical staff or specialists or other staff referred to in Parts A.1 (b) (i) or A.6 
(e) of the Project.”.
27.
Schedule 1, paragraphs 3 (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h) are hereby deliberately left 
blank.
28.
Schedule 1, paragraph 4 is hereby amended by inserting the words “for 
incremental operating costs,” immediately after the words “for expenditures”.
29.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as set forth in Attachment B to this 
letter.
30.
Schedule 4, Section I ,Parts C.2 and C.4 are hereby amended by inserting the 
words “, excluding vehicles, ” inmediately after the word “Goods” in the first line. 
31.
Schedule 4, Section I, Part D.1 (a) is hereby amended by deliberately leaving 
subparagraphs (ii) and (iii) thereof blank.
32.
Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 1 is hereby amended by deleting the words “EA 
Recipients” and “EA Subprojects”.
33.
Schedule 4, Section II, paragraph 3 is hereby deliberately left blank.
34.
Schedule 5, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 are hereby deliberately left blank.
35.
Schedule 5, paragraph 4 (d) is hereby amended by replacing the words “Section 
1.02 (t) (ii)” with the words “Section 1.02 (t) (i) (B)”, as well as by replacing the 
original words “Section 1.02 (t) (i)” with the words “Section 1.02 (t) (i) (A)”.
36.
Schedule 5, paragraph 4 (f) (iv) is hereby amended by replacing the words 
“Section 1.02 (t) (i)” with the words “Section 1.02 (t) (i) (A)”.
37.
Schedule 5, paragraph 4 (f) (v) is hereby amended by replacing the words 
“Section 1.02 (t) (ii)” with the words “Section 1.02 (t) (i) (B)”.
38.
Schedule 5, paragraph 4 (g) is hereby deliberately left blank.
39.
Schedule 5, paragraph 4 (h) is hereby amended by replacing the words “(e), (f) 
or (g)” with the words “(e) or (f)”, as well as by deleting the words “(and its State 
when such State is a party to such FA Subloan Agreement)”.
40.
Schedule 5, paragraph 5 (b) is hereby amended by deliberately leaving 
subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iv) thereof blank.
41.
Schedule 5, paragraph 6 is hereby amended by deliberately leaving subparagraphs 
(i), (ii) and (iii) thereof blank, as well as by replacing the words “Section 1.02 (t) 
(ii)” with the words “Section 1.02 (t) (i) (B)”, as well as by replacing the original 
words “Section 1.02 (t) (i)” with the words “Section 1.02 (t) (i) (A)”.
42.
Schedule 6, paragraph 1 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the words “through 
(3)” with the words “, (2), (3), (5) and (6)”.
  Guarantee Agreement
43.
Section 2.01 is hereby amended by replacing the words “shall carry out Parts A.1 
through A.4, B.2 and B.3 of the Project through PFPA, Parts A.5 (a), A.6 (b), A.6 (c), 
B.1 and C of the Project through INE and Parts A.6 (d), D and E.3 (b) of the Project 
through SEDESOL” with the words “shall carry out Parts A.1 through A.4 of the Project 
through PFPA and Parts A.5 (a), A.6 (e) and C of the Project through INE and Part A.6 
(d) of the Project through SEDESOL”.
44.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended by deleting the words “and in paragraph 2 (f) of 
Page  4
Schedule 5 to the loan agreement for the Medium-Size Cities Urban Transport Project 
(as made applicable to the Northern Border Environment Project pursuant to Section 
3.09 (c) of this Agreement)”.
45.
Section 3.02 is hereby amended by adding, immediately after paragraph (b) 
thereof, a new paragraph (c) to read as follows in its entirety:  “In carrying out the 
clean-up operations referred to in Part A.1 (a) (i) (F) of the Project, the Guarantor 
shall comply with the provisions of the guidelines referred to in Part A.1 (a) (i) (E) 
of the Project, and such guidelines must be satisfactory to the Bank.”.
46.
Section 3.04 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the words “Parts A.5 (a) and 
B.2” with the words “Part A.5 (a)”, as well as by deleting the words “and EA Grants”.
47.
Section 3.04 (b) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “The 
Guarantor, through INE, shall prepare an operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
which manual shall be adhered to in carrying out Part A.5 (a) of the Project.”.
48.
Sections 3.05, 3.06, 3.08 and 3.09 are hereby deliberately left blank.
49.
Section 3.10 (a) is hereby amended by to read as follows in its entirety:  “The 
Guarantor, through PFPA with respect to Parts A.1 through A.4 of the Project, through 
SEDESOL with respect to Part A.6 (d) of the Project and through INE with respect to 
Parts A.5 (a), A.6 (e) and C of the Project, shall maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
resources and expenditures in connection with the Parts of the Project referred to in 
this paragraph.”.
50.
Section 3.11 (b) is hereby deliberately left blank.
51.
Section 3.12 (a) is hereby amended by deleting the words “, B.2 and B.3”.
52.
Section 3.12 (b) is hereby amended by replacing the words “Parts A.5 (a), A.6 
(b), A.6 (c), B.1 and C” with the words “Part A.5 (a), A.6 (e) and C”.
53.
Section 3.12 (c) is hereby amended by replacing the words “Parts A.6 (d), D and 
E.3 (b)” with the words “Part A.6 (d)”.
54.
Section 3.13 (b) is hereby amended by replacing the words “A.6 (b) through (d), 
B, C, D and E.3 (b)” with the words “A.6 (d), A.6 (e) and C”.
55.
Section 3.14 is hereby amended by replacing the words “A.6 (b) through (d), B, 
C, D and E.3 (b)” with the words “A.6 (d), A.6 (e) and C”.
56.
Schedule 1, paragraph 2 is hereby deliberately left blank.
57.
Schedule 1, paragraph 3 is hereby amended by deleting the words “or an EA 
Subproject” in the preamble thereof, by deleting the words “or the EA Grant” and “or 
EA Grant” in subparagraph (a) thereof and by deliberately leaving subparagraph (b) 
thereof blank.
58.
Schedule 1, paragraph 4 (a) is hereby amended by deleting the words “or an EA 
Grant” and by deliberately leaving subparagraph (ii) thereof blank.
59.
Schedule 3 is hereby deliberately left blank.  
Implementation Letter
60.
Annex B is hereby amended to read as set forth in Attachment C to this letter.
61.
Annex C, paragraph 2 is hereby amended by replacing the words “three 
subprocuradurias” with the words “Subprocuraduría de Auditoría Ambiental, 
Subprocuraduría de Verificación Industrial, Subprocuraduría de Recursos Naturales and 
Dirección General Jurídica”.
62.
Annex C, paragraph 11 is hereby amended by replacing the words “, namely the 
Subprocuraduria de Verificacion Normativa, Subprocuraduria de Auditoria Ambiental and 
Subprocuraduria de Participacion Social,” with the words “and Dirección General 
Page  5
Jurídica,”.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the spaces provided below, and returning one to 
us.  \0bThis amendment letter shall enter into effect as of its date first above 
written, upon receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.  
Please note that, by signing this letter, you acknowledge that, with respect to former 
Parts B, D and E of the Project and former components of Part A of the Project that 
are deleted pursuant to this amendment letter, the provisions of the Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements and Implementation Letter pertaining to those former Parts or 
components, which provisions are also hereby deleted, would still be applicable to any 
Guarantor or Borrower action or omission with respect to such former Parts or 
components, even if such action or omission occurs after the effective date of this 
letter.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Olivier Lafourcade 
Director 
Mexico Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS
UNITED MEXICAN STATES Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, 
S.N.C.
By: Jaime Corredor Esnaola
By: Carlos Garcia Moreno 
    Authorized Representative
    Authorized Representative
Date: June 4, 1998
Date: June 10, 1998
ATTACHMENT A
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in 
  Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultant services:
 
(a)
For Parts A.1
22,800,000
100%
through A.4 of the
Project (including
former components
of said Parts)
(b)
For Part A.5 (a)
 6,800,000
100%
of the Project
(c)
(i)  For Part A.5
   600,000
100%
     (b) (i) of the
     Project
(ii) For Part A.5
 3,420,000
100%
     (b) (ii) of the
     Project
(d)
For Part
   150,000
100%
A.6 (a) of the
Project
Page  6
(e)
For former Part
  0
100%
A.6 (b) of the
Project
(f)
For Part
    50,000
100%
A.6 (d) of the
Project
(g)
For former Part
   540,492.50 100%
B.1 of the Project
(h)
For former Parts
  0
100%
B.2 and B.3 of
the Project
(i)
For Part C of the
 3,000,000
100%
Project
(j)
For former Part D
  0
100%
of the Project
(k)
For former Part E
  0
100%
of the Project
(l)
For Part A.6 (e) 
 2,000,000
100%
of the Project
(2)
Goods:
(a)
For Parts A.1
16,800,000
90%
through A.4 of the
Project (including
former components
of said Parts)
(b)
For Part A.5 (a)
10,200,000
90%
of the Project
(c)
(i)  For Part A.5 (b) (i)
   600,000
90%
     of the Project
     (including with
     respect to the
     municipality of
     Mexicali only
     after no amounts
     remain unwithdrawn
     from category (2)
     (c) (ii) below)
(ii) For Part A.5 (b) (i)
    52,059.74 100%
     of the Project
     with respect to the
     municipality of
     Mexicali
(iii)For Part A.5 (b) (ii)  7,927,940.26 90%
     of the Project
(d)
For former Part
                0
90%
A.6 (b) of the
Project
(e)
For Part
    50,000
90%
A.6 (d) of the
Project
(f)
For former Parts
  0
90%
Page  7
B.2 and B.3 of
the Project
(g)
For Part C of the
 2,000,000
90%
Project
(h)
For former Part E
   331,389.36 90%
of the Project
(i)
For Part A.6 (e) 
 1,000,000
90%
of the Project
(3)
Civil works:
(a)
For Part C of
   500,000
50%
the Project
(b)
To the extent
        2,037,092.26
90%
publicly financed
under former Part
D of the Project
(c)
For former Part
        8,151,158.60
50%
E of the Project
(d)
For Part A.1 (b)
          600,000
50%
(i) of the Project
(4)
Unallocated
1,992,775.24
(5)
Incremental operating
2,000,000
32%
costs under Part A.6 (e)
of the Project
(6)
Incremental operating
1,000,000
32%
costs under Parts A.1
through A.4 of the
Project
(7)
Cancelled prior to
           273,397,092.04
January 1, 1998
    ______________
TOTAL              
    368,000,000
 
           ============
ATTACHMENT B
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve environmental and social conditions 
in the Border States by:  (a) assisting the Guarantor, as well as Border States and 
their municipalities, in strengthening their environmental management capabilities, 
including their capabilities for enforcing environmental legislation and regulations; 
and (b) assisting the Border States and their municipalities in strengthening their 
administrative, financial and other management capabilities in such sectors as 
education, health and water supply and sanitation, so as to improve effectiveness and 
efficiency in such sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:  
Institutional Strengthening
Page  8
1.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of PFPA's:
(a) 
Subprocuraduría de Auditoría Ambiental (Office of the Deputy Attorney 
General for Environmental Audits) through:
(i)
a contaminated sites program consisting of the:  (A) establishment 
and 
maintenance of a computerized inventory of hazardous 
material storage sites in 
Mexico (such inventory to categorize sites by 
location, type and potential 
environmental/socioeconomic 
impact); (B) prioritization of approximately fifty 
such storage sites 
for purposes of undertaking clean-up actions; (C) carrying 
out of 
clean-up feasibility studies for the top twenty such prioritized sites; 
(D) establishment of a program to assess the environment around such 
cleaned-up sites; (E) preparation of contaminated site clean-up technical and 
financial guidelines; and (F) carrying out of the clean-up of five of 
said top 
twenty prioritized sites;
(ii)
an environmental emergencies program consisting of the: (A) 
establishment of a 
PFPA national center to provide advice and answer 
inquiries on a 
round-the-clock basis with respect to 
the handling of environmental 
emergencies; (B) 
establishment of a communications and information system 
linking all PFPA State offices with PFPA headquarters to enable a rapid 
response to environmental emergencies; (C) ; (D) preparation of an 
environmental emergency response manual and carrying out of a 
survey to 
determine the existing infrastructure capable of 
being used to respond to 
environmental emergencies; and (E) 
compilation of an inventory of the 
equipment and other 
resources available to respond to environmental 
emergencies; and
(iii)
an environmental audits program consisting of the: (A) promotion 
of PFPA's 
environmental audit initiatives through meetings and 
seminars with the private 
sector and through media campaigns; (B) 
quality-control supervision of the 
implementation of 
approximately 400 action plans resulting from environmental 
audits, as well as establishment of a certification program for consultants 
serving as environmental auditors; (C) preparation of terms of reference, 
including guidelines, for environmental audits with respect to ten 
priority 
industrial sectors; (D) carrying out of studies on 
environmental audit 
policies and methodologies in countries 
other than Mexico, on economic and 
financial instruments to 
induce industrial firms to carry out environmental 
audits and invest in 
pollution control and prevention and on appropriate 
technologies 
for the treatment of hazardous wastes; (E) carrying out of 
environmental audits in small- and medium-size firms, applying the guidelines 
referred to in Part A.1 (a)(iii) (C) of the Project; and (F) establishment of 
ten regional centers to provide technical assistance to industry with 
respect 
to environmental audits;
(b)
Subprocuraduría de Verificación Industrial (Office of the Deputy Attorney 
General for Industrial Inspection and Enforcement) through:
 (i)
a human resource strengthening program consisting of the: (A) 
development and 
implementation of a PFPA system for recruiting 
professional environmental 
specialists; (B) recruitment of 
additional PFPA professional and technical 
staff for 
enforcement of environmental regulations related to industrial 
firms, including laboratory personnel; and (C) construction and equipping of 
PFPA environmental control laboratories, as well as provision to PFPA of field 
and related office equipment, materials and supplies and mobile 
laboratories, 
all to allow on-site inspection and surveillance for 
enforcement of 
environmental regulations related to 
industrial firms;
(ii)
a quality assurance program consisting of the development and 
implementation 
of a field, laboratory and data management system to 
Page  9
ensure consistent quality 
control among all PFPA laboratories;
(iii)
the development, improvement and operation of an information 
system to store 
inspection and surveillance data relating to 
industrial firms; and
(iv)
(c) 
Dirección General Jurídica (General Counsel’s Office) 
through:
(i)
an environmental legislation awareness program consisting of the: 
(A) 
preparation and provision of federal and local environmental 
legislation 
awareness courses; (B) implementation of a 
cooperative program for the 
exchange of environmental 
legislation information and materials with 
institutions in the 
United States of America and Canada; and (C) preparation 
of the 
materials required to develop a training and dissemination program 
regarding North American environmental legislation;
(ii)
a program to evaluate compliance with environmental legislation, 
consisting of 
the evaluation of environmental legislation 
enforcement systems in Mexico, 
Canada and the United States of 
America; and
(iii)
a program to strengthen PFPA's public complaint system, such 
program to 
consist of the: (A) establishment of offices to 
receive and process complaints 
from the public on environmental 
matters; (B) establishment of a toll-free 
telephone system to 
receive such complaints; (C) development and operation of 
a public 
complaints information system to track the processing of such 
complaints; (D) promotion among the public of PFPA's public complaint system; 
and (E) development and use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, such 
as arbitration and conciliation, to resolve public complaints; and
(d)
Subprocuraduría de Recursos Naturales (Office of the Deputy Attorney 
General for Natural Resources) through:
(i)
a human resource strengthening program consisting of the: (A) 
recruitment of 
additional PFPA professional and technical staff for 
enforcement of 
environmental regulations related to 
natural resources, including lawyers; and 
(B) provision to PFPA of 
field and related office equipment, materials and 
supplies, 
including water and land vehicles, to allow on-site inspection and 
surveillance for enforcement of environmental regulations related to natural 
resources; and
(ii)
the development, improvement and operation of an information 
system to store 
inspection and surveillance data relating to natural 
resources.
2.
Establishment and operation of a PFPA training program whereby up to 2,700 PFPA, 
State environmental and municipal environmental staff would be trained in 
environmental subjects.
3.
Establishment and operation of a central PFPA management information system to 
integrate data collected through the subject-specific information systems, inventories 
and audits referred to in Part A.1 of the Project.
4.
Coordination by PFPA of its activities with respect to Parts A.1 through A.3 of 
the Project.
5.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of Border States and their 
municipalities through:
(a) 
an environmental management program consisting of the:  (i) institutional 
strengthening of the environmental ministries (or equivalent agencies) of the Border 
States; (ii) support for preparation of environmental regulations and standards for 
Border States and their municipalities; (iii) training of environmental staff of 
Page  10
Border States and their municipalities; (iv) provision to Border States and their 
municipalities of equipment for environmental management uses; and (v) carrying out of 
studies related to environmental management; and
(b) 
(i) a finance and administration program consisting of the:  (A) 
establishment and operation at the State level of an integrated public investment 
system for each Border State, which system shall permit State governments to program 
their capital expenditures in the framework of Mexico's federal public finance system; 
(B) improvement of the accounting systems of each Border State; (C) improvement of the 
tax, capital expenditure and recurrent expenditure administration of Border State 
municipalities (including improvement of cost recovery practices related thereto); (D) 
improvement of the cost control practices and public works administration of Border 
State municipalities; and (E) improvement of the general management and personnel 
development practices of Border State municipalities and Operating Agencies; and (ii) 
a multi-sectoral program to strengthen the capacity of Border States and their 
municipalities to manage sectors such as environment, education, health and water 
supply and sanitation, as well as to strengthen the capacity of Operating Agencies to 
manage their water supply and sanitation sector activities.
6.
(a) Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Borrower, through the 
provision of technical assistance and the preparation of an operational manual, to 
carry out Part A.5 (b) of the Project; (b) ; (c) ; (d) strengthening of the 
institutional capacity of SEDESOL, through the establishment and operation of OASP, to 
monitor Project implementation progress; and (e) strengthening of the institutional 
capacity of INE through:  (i) the establishment of a computerized hazardous waste 
tracking system to track wastes generated in the Border States, as well as of data 
bases and information systems and centers for periodic compilation, publication and 
dissemination of reports on the state of the environment in Border States; and (ii) 
the employment of staff, acquisition of equipment, financing of incremental operating 
costs and carrying out of studies by consultants in support of the Guarantor’s 
programs regarding waste and hazardous waste management, environmental impact 
assessment, land use planning, wildlife management, sea turtle protection and 
management of priority protected areas, environmental regulations and information, 
decentralization of environmental management and coordination of external financial 
support.
Part B:  
Hazardous Waste
1.
2.
3.
Part C:  
Biological Diversity and Ecological Areas
1.
Protection of ecological areas in the Border States (including:
--
the protected biosphere reserves of El Pinacate y Gran Desierto de Altar 
and Alto 
Golfo de California y Delta del Río Colorado in the States 
of Baja California and 
Sonora;
--
the proposed biosphere reserve of Sierra del Carmen y Cañón de Santa 
Elena in the 
States of Coahuila and Chihuahua;
--
the proposed biosphere reserve of Laguna Madre de Tamaulipas in the State 
of Tamaulipas; 
and
--
other ecological areas to be identified and decreed pursuant to Part C.2 
(b) of the 
Project) by:  (a) carrying out Emergency Plans, as necessary, in 
any ecological area 
covered by this Part C.1 of the Project prior to the 
preparation of a Management Plan 
for such ecological area; (b) carrying out a 
Management Plan for each such ecological 
area; and (c) carrying out an 
Operating Plan derived from each such Management Plan.
2.
(a) 
Carrying out of studies (some of which may be financed pursuant to an 
INE-administered research fellowship program) on conservation methods with respect to 
Page  11
endemic, rare, threatened, endangered or migratory plant and animal species of the 
Border States and provision of equipment and carrying out of works to protect habitats 
of such species, which habitats do not fall within the boundaries of a protected 
ecological area referred to in Part C.1 of the Project; (b) identification of 
ecological areas in the Border States which are suitable for legal protection; (c) 
issuance of Guarantor decrees giving protected status to the Tamaulipas, Chihuahua and 
Coahuila areas referred to in Part C.1 of the Project, as well as to the other 
ecological areas to be identified pursuant to Part C.2 (b) of the Project; (d) 
preparation of a Guarantor decree, an Emergency Plan as necessary, a Management Plan 
and an Operating Plan for each of the ecological areas referred to in Part C.1 of the 
Project (as well as carrying out
 of studies required for such preparation); and (e) carrying out of a study on the 
financial sustainability of protection of such ecological areas.
3.
Provision of training to INE personnel and other Mexican environmental 
professionals with respect to conservation and environmental management techniques.
Part D:  
Street Paving
Part E:  
Infrastructure Investment Lines of Credit
1.
2.
3.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.
ATTACHMENT C
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL
