Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report # 20057
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(LOAN 3784-TT)
January 31, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for the Caribbean
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1999)
Currency Unit= TT Dollar
US$1.00 = TT Dollar 6.3
FISCAL YEAR
November 1 - October 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IOA       Interim Operating Agreement
IMSC      Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee
LTA       Long-term Arrangement
PPI       Private Participation in Infrastructure
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
RIC       Regulated Industries Commission
RFP       Request for Proposals
TA        Technical Assistance
TTWS    Trinidad and Tobago Water Services Ltd.
UFW       Unaccounted for Water
WASA    Water and Sewerage Authority
WRA       Water Resources Agency
WRMA    Water Resources Management Authority
WSIS      Water Sector Institutional Strengthening Project
Vice President                                     David de Ferranti
Director, Country Management Unit                  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director, Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Unit    Danny Leipziger
Team Leader                                        Jyoti Shukla



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION ftPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
LOAN 3784-TT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
PREFACE ...........                                                                           I
EVALUATION SUMMARY..11
PART 1. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION ASSESSMENT                                .1
A.  BACKGROUND ....................................I
B.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .....................................2
C.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD .....................................4
D.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .....................................9
E.  ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................                 10
F.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ....................................                            10
G.  BANK PERFORMANCE .....................................11
H.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE ....................................                              12
I.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ....................................                            13
J.   FUTURE OPERATION ....................................                                 13
K.  LESSONS LEARNED ....................................                                   14
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .18
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..............................................             18
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..............................................         19
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ..............................................                  19
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .............................................. 20
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................................  21
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ..............................................  22
TABLE 7:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ..............................................       23
TABLE 8A : PROJECT COSTS..24
TABLE 8B : PROJECT FINANCING             ..25
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .26
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .27
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .29
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .29
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .30
APPENDICES!.31
APPENDIX A: AIDE MEMOIRE .32
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION .34
APPENDIX C: WASA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS .45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
LOAN 3784-TT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Water Sector
Institutional Strengthening Project in Trinidad and Tobago, for which Loan 3784-TT in
the amount of US$25 million was approved on August 2, 1994 and made effective on
November 21, 1994. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1999 - one year after the original
closing date - and approximately US$926,885 was to be cancelled.'
This Implementation Completion Report was prepared by Jyoti Shukla (Team
Leader, LCSFP) with inputs from Carlos Moreno-Pineda (consultant). It was reviewed
by J. Luis Guasch (Sector Manager, LCSFR), Susan Goldmark (Sector Manager, LCSFE)
and Max B. Pulgar-Vidal (Sector Leader, LCC3C).   The Borrower contributed by
providing comments on the draft, which have been incorporated into the final document.
The Borrower's own evaluation of the Project's execution is included as Appendix B of
the ICR.
1 Final disbursement applications were still being processed when this ICR was sent to the Board,
therefore the amount cancelled is approximate.



ii
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(LOAN 3784-TT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Project Objectives
1.  In 1994, at the time of Project identification and appraisal, water and sanitation
services posed a special challenge in Trinidad and Tobago (T&T). Though 92 percent of
the population had access to water, the quality of water services was poor. 70% of the
population received water only intermittently, and only 30% had access to piped
sewerage. There was an urgent need for the reform of the public utility, WASA, and the
creation of an overarching policy and institutional framework for the management of
water resources. Three investment operations in the water sector were already in
preparation. This fast track US$25 million technical assistance project was designed to
address this sector background, and Project objectives were to: (i) Provide essential
supplies to WASA to prevent an imminent operational collapse; (ii) Prepare and
implement an approach for private sector management of WASA; (iii) Prepare and
implement an integrated water resources management strategy; and (iv) Design the
physical rehabilitation of water supply and waste water facilities and drainage and flood
control structures.
Implementation Experience, Results and Future Operation
2.   Project implementation started well with the rapid implementation of needed
emergency supplies for WASA. Other components, however, suffered delays and
implementation problems, at times straining relations between the Bank and the Borrower
especially on the private management of WASA, its transition to a longer term
arrangement and the issue of a complementary investment loan for water and sanitation
rehabilitation. The Project was eventually closed on June 30, 1999, after an extraordinary
extension of one year despite Unsatisfactory ratings on implementation and development
objectives, and US$926,885 was cancelled. This extension was made at that time as it
was considered important to maintain Bank involvement and policy dialogue in the
crucial last year of the management contract for WASA, when the Government's strategy
for long term private management of WASA was to be articulated.
3.   Overall Project outcome is rated Unsatisfactory, as it objectives were not met,
though some of the less ambitious objectives were partially achieved. The first objective
of preventing the operational collapse of WASA was largely met, as the emergency
operational fund was rapidly implemented. The second objective of a fundamental
reorientation of WASA to private management was not met. The Government defined a
two step approach to private participation in WASA - an immediate Interim Operating
Agreement (IOA) consisting of a three year management contract, followed by a Long
Term Arrangement (LTA) to be defined subsequently. The Government awarded the
IOA to TTWS, a company formed by Sevem-Trent International and Wimpey



iii
Construction. However, the implementation of the IOA was marked by problems and
distrust between TTWS and the WASA Board of Directors. The Board continued to
remain highly involved in WASA operations, leading to frequent conflicts and limited
operational autonomy for TTWS, reducing them to management advisors rather than
contractors. Though the relationship improved over time, at the end of the Project all
parties were left with unfulfilled expectations. At the appropriate time, TTWS submitted
a proposal for a LTA, but no agreement was reached and TTWS left WASA in April
1999, and WASA has since reverted to being a public utility. Though no LTA was
implemented during the Project, the Government has reiterated its commitment to a long
term private participation approach for WASA, and is currently working on the
preparation of the requisite legal and regulatory changes. In the meantime, WASA,
under a new management within the public sector, is undertaking large scale capital
works as part of its drive towards service improvements. The South Water Project
(US$100 million), which includes rehabilitation and new works, is already in
implementation, and additional investment projects costing more than US$400 million
are planned. WASA management needs to pay much more attention to institutional
changes to improve operational efficiency and to ensure adequate mechanisms and
funding for maintenance. Otherwise, these large capital investments will not be
sustainable in the long term.
4.   During the IOA, WASA achieved some operational improvements - water
production increased by 30%, plant down-time was reduced from 64 days to 4 days,
average collections increased by 60% and personnel were reduced from 3507 to 2394 in
March 19992* Together with some tariff increases, this led to an almost break-even
working ratio of 97% for the first time in 1998-99. However, four of the five
performance targets agreed at negotiations were not achieved. While the percentage of
population with water service more than 12 hours per day increased from 30% to 42%,
this was well below the 70% target. Working Ratio for WASA improved to 97%, but
remained short of the target of 75%. No domestic meters were installed, as supervision
missions later agreed that this would be inappropriate in the absence of continuous water
supply and that WASA could not finance these in any case in the absence of the
investment project. Unaccounted for Water (UFW) decreased from 50% to 45%, but did
not meet the 42% target3. WASA did meet its targets of customers billed.
5.   The third objective of preparing and implementing a comprehensive water
resources management strategy was partially achieved. Despite implementation delays,
good technical work has been done towards the preparation of an innovative and best
practice integrated approach towards water resources management. The
recommendations include the establishment of an independent and financially sustainable
Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA), and separating the water regulation
function from the distribution function of WASA. However, the recommendations of this
study were not implemented during the Project, and project objectives will be considered
to be achieved only when these policy and institutional changes are implemented. A
Cabinet Note on the recommendations of the strategy is now being prepared, which will
then need to be endorsed by the Government, and the requisite legal changes will need to
2 Number of employees per 1000 connections decreased from 18 to 8.
3 WASA estimates that if illegal connections were taken into account, UFW would be closer to 42%.



iv
be made. When established, the WRMA will need considerable institutional
strengthening.
6.  The final objective of designing a drainage and flood control project was also only
partially achieved, as the technical designs for the investment works are in place, but the
investment operation for drainage and flood control works remains to be appraised.
7.   Sustainability of the Project is evaluated to be Unlikely in the short term, Uncertain
in the medium term. Since the major objectives of the Project were not achieved,
sustainability remains unlikely at least in the short term. Given the timing of elections in
late 2000, it is unlikely that Government will carry out major reforms in the next year,
especially as labor unions have publicly noted their dissent to private management in
WASA. Similar considerations are likely to apply to the policy decisions needed for the
drainage and flood control sector. The implementation of the water resources
management strategy offers better prospects, and the Bank is prepared to assist the
Government with technical assistance in implementing this strategy. In the longer term,
however, prospects for sectoral reform are higher. In a middle income and politically
open country such as Trinidad and Tobago, with its relatively high standard of living, we
expect that public outcry and pressure for improved water services will inevitably bring
forth change in WASA operations. In fact, the Government has already started
preparatory work towards the necessary legal and regulatory changes for a long term
approach to private management of WASA, though major policy decisions and actions
will likely be taken only after the next elections later in 2000.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
-  Change of Government and lack ofpolitical consensus - Because the IOA was
signed less than a week before elections, the new Government that took office in late
1995 and WASA's Board of Directors had little buy-in into the contract and viewed
the contract with suspicion. In such a situation, the IOA had limited chances of
success.
*  Changes in task managers and country management within the Bank - On the
Bank's side, there were five task managers through identification to completion, each
of which brought a different perspective to the Project, sometimes leading to the
perception of a shifting goal post. There was also a major management change and
an accompanying change in portfolio supervision culture with a much greater
emphasis on a higher level of realism in project ratings. Thus, while earlier teams
were highly supportive of the IOA, later project teams focused more on the emerging
flaws in the IOA design and the lack of progress on sector reform. Changes in task
and country management also led to delays and the eventual cancellation of the
US$100 million complementary investment project. This was a correct judgment at
that point of time, but the long decision process, while expenditures on the
preparation of the project continued, vitiated the country dialogue and distracted from
the implementation of this Project.
* The absence of legal and regulatory reform - The IOA was undertaken without
substantive legal and regulatory reform. The role of the Board of Directors was never



v
redefined, and this ambiguity was successfully used by proponents of the status quo
to undermine performance under the IOA.
The design of the IOA - The poor design of the IOA itself, with an inadequate
framework for incentives and penalties, was a significant element in the unsuccessful
implementation of this component. The contractor had little at stake, and the
management fees was not effectively linked to performance measures as these had
been left undefined. Though the contract did foresee six indicators to be included in
the determination of fees, the contract did not specify these performance indicators,
which were to be agreed during the contract period, with data generated by the
contractor. At the same time, the contractor also had a significant upside with single
source rights to capital works initiated within the contract period. This combination
of lack of accountability for results, low risks and a high potential upside for capital
works did not provide the best incentives to the private contractor and added to the
distrust on part of WASA's Board.
Bank and Borrower Performance
8.  The Bank shares responsibility in the unsatisfactory performance of this project and
the Bank's overall performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Bank performance was less than
adequate in the review of the IOA. In retrospect, the Bank should have pushed harder for
a deeper formn of privatization, and at the very least been more vocal in its opposition to a
management contract that allowed the ambiguity of the role of the Board, an incentive
structure that had little downside for the contractor except for abrogation, and a poor
framework for monitoring performance and linking it to management incentives. The
Bank did voice some of these concerns, but eventually endorsed the contract.
9.   Later Bank missions did not focus adequately on a timely resolution to negotiating
the performance indicators or urge the Government into hiring an independent firm to
develop the basic baseline data on which to judge contract performance. Supervision
was also inconsistent on the monitoring of the financial covenants and performance
indicators contained in the Memorandum of the President (MOP). Early supervision
missions either did not monitor these or dismissed lack of progress as overly ambitious
expectations at the time of appraisal. They also ignored the inconsistency of the IOA
with the Loan Agreement (LA), which did not require the operator to meet the Loan
Agreement financial covenants, and in fact the IOA ruled out tariff increases during its
duration, a fact that would have made it virtually impossible for WASA to meet the LA's
financial covenants. Such inconsistencies should have been addressed, and the IOA and
LA made consistent to maintain clear benchmarks for measuring performance. When
task management changed, later project teams downgraded the Project to Unsatisfactory
status on the basis of non-compliance of the financial covenants. The Bank's position on
the follow-up investment loan also changed over time and was not communicated clearly,
leading to misunderstandings and inconsistent actions. Once the investment loan was
delayed beyond the period of the IOA, and if the long term approach for WASA was
likely to be a concession, it is not clear why the Bank continued financing the technical
designs for investment works, which should correctly have been designed by the
concessionaire. Yet, the technical designs continued well into 1997, and on the basis of
assurances by Bank staff of the eligibility of these expenditures for retroactive financing



vi
if a follow-up loan were to be approved, WASA invited bids for investments valued at
$10 million, many of which it then cancelled in the absence of the loan materializing.
Similarly, the Government also undertook some expenditures on works, all of which did
not eventually get reimbursed as the investment operation did not materialize.
10. Bank supervision was also lax on substantive actions on the consistently late audit
reports, most of which were not of acceptable standards to the Bank. In the case of
WASA, two of the three audit reports thus far have had Qualified auditors' opinions, and
have highlighted significant deficiencies in internal and management control. Yet, the
Bank's only response was letters and reminders to the Borrower. It should have instead
followed a more pro-active approach of engaged discussion, focused technical assistance,
and the eventual use of its remedies under the Loan Agreement as the final resort.
I1. In some part, much of the seemingly inconsistent behavior on part of the Bank was
due to several changes in task management, reorganizations within the Region and at
least one major management change. At that time, there was also a significant change in
the overall portfolio management culture within the Bank and the incentives of the task
teams. With a new management, quality assurance audits and greater scrutiny of the
disconnect between supervision ratings and OED evaluations, there was a strong
emphasis on higher realism in project ratings, a willingness to recognize problems in
project implementation rather than glossing over them and enforcement of higher
standards of financial management and reporting procedures.
12. Borrower performance on the Project was also unsatisfactory. On the water
resources management, the Inter-Ministerial Committee must be commended for its
challenging task of pulling together sectoral interests and taking strong ownership of
extracting quality input from the consultants. However, the long delays in
implementation meant that the recommendations did not get implemented in the project
period. On the WASA component, the Government did go ahead with the IOA, but all
actors in the Government did not provide the support or constructive criticism that could
potentially have gotten the best possible result from it. The Government was also not
able to reach consensus on the long term strategy for WASA at the end of the IOA, so
that WASA has now reverted to public management. Nor did the Government take
action on the regulatory framework - the Regulated Industries Commission is still largely
not functional. Though it did undertake a tariff study, and revise tariffs for the Point
Lisas industrial area to TT$ 7.50 per cubic meter in July 1998, it has not presented an
action plan to the Bank to establish prices appropriate to achieve conditions for
sustainable operations. Finally, financial management remained an issue, with
continually late audit reports, which were not consistent with Bank standards, and in the
case of WASA, Qualified in two of the three years audited.
13. Lessons Learned for the Design of Private Participation Approaches:
(a) The needfor an open process in designing Private Participation in Infrastructure
approaches. An open and participatory process of designing strategy and the
publication of the contract would lead to greater transparency and broader ownership.
In this case, the contract was signed days before elections, and became a point of
distrust for the new Government.



vii
(b) Successful management contracts need a good structure for incentives and data to
monitor it. As reinforced by a World Bank review4, for management contracts to be
successful, they must embody a good framework for incentives, often with a small
fixed fee element, and ideally, with most of the contractor's compensation coming
from incremental improvements in net revenues. In this case, the fixed fee element
was large, and there was no effective linkage with any operational performance
indicators.
(c) The penalty structure in the contract should also be graduated, abrogation alone
is not an effective remedy. In this case, abrogation of contract was the only effective
remedy for unsatisfactory performance, a remedy which is useful only in the case of
consistently poor performance. A better structure would include a more graduated
structure of penalties.
(d) The contract itself needs to be comprehensive and self-contained, built on
articulation of clear principles rather than long lists of specific details. It is inevitable
that during the operation of any contract actual circumstances will change or
unforeseen events will come up. These can be resolved more clearly if there is a clear
philosophical delineation, rather than an attempt to list all possible eventualities. The
WASA contract had a long list of 64 types of activities and their responsibilities. It is
not difficult to imagine circumstances where disputes would emerge on interpretation
of whether unforeseen activities belonged to one category or the other.
(e) The management contractor should have the autonomy and resources to meet the
performance indicators. Management contract arrangements typically do not bring
additional investment resources, which have to be identified separately, In the case of
the IOA, the capital investments needed for the management contractor to fulfill
expected performance targets were not clearly defined. Eventually, these capital
investments were not forthcoming and it could not be determined whether the shortfall
in WASA's performance came from lack of operational improvements or lack of
capital financing. This lesson was learnt in the subsequent management contract for
the Postal Services where the capital investments assumed for meeting the performance
targets in the contract are part of the contract.
(f) Getting a baseline of select indicatorsfrom an independent consulting firm is an
invaluable investment of time and money. The lack of adequate data on the condition
of assets and operations has sometimes been used as a reason not to go for a
concession. Even for approaches such as management contracts, this data is essential,
and an independent survey to develop a baseline should be done as soon as possible to
be able to enforce accountability in the contract.
(g) Two step inter-linked approaches to privatization may pose too many
complications to be worthwhile. This management contract included a clause which
allowed the winning bidder in the IOA to have preferential rights to negotiate the LTA,
and this was considered important to attract reputable bidders. However, negotiations
for LTAs are difficult at the best of time, and the preferential rights of the incumbent
4 See for example, Bureaucrats in Business, A World Bank Policy Research Report, 1995.



viii
makes the negotiations for the all important LTA much harder and introduces an
additional element of lack of transparency. Further, management contracts and
concessions usually have different objectives, and different types of skills and strengths
are needed from the winning bidder. For both these reasons, it is better to delink the
two.
(h) The Government needs to acceptfull responsibilityfor the development of
performance indicators and the underlying data. In this case, it was left as the
responsibility of the management operator who clearly had limited incentives to
generate this data.
14. Lessons Learned for Bank Procedures in Similar Projects:
(a) Bank review procedures may not be appropriate for some PPI projects. Typically
Bank review is required at project concept and appraisal stages. However, in projects
such as this the actual privatization contract is really the essence of the project and sector
strategy supported by the Bank. In practice, actual Bank involvement in contract details
has varied depending on the country, project and the supervision team. Typically, a no-
objection from the Bank is not required for the contract when the Bank does not finance
the management fee and some countries keep the final versions of the contract
confidential. However, as these contracts are central to the achievement of Project
objectives, the Bank should exercise its rights to no-objection of the final contract, and
such no-objection should be subject to a formal internal review.
(b) Bank's preparatory team should include at an early stage, a legal specialist in
contracts dealing with private participation in infrastructure to ensure that the contract
is clear and enforceable. It may also be advisable to get expert advice from a specialist
conversant with the Borrower's legal framework.
(c) The Bank's procurement rules need to evolve continually to deal with the new
challenges of PPI approaches. In particular, the procurement and PPI communities
within the Bank need to give project teams clearer guidance on issues arising from two
step approaches. In this project, two issues came up during implementation, on which the
Bank had no clear guidelines, leading to much debate within the Bank, leading to delayed
and sometimes mixed messages to the Borrower. The first issue was whether the
incumbent should be allowed preferential rights to negotiate the LTA, as this undermined
the principles of competitive bidding. The Bank finally decided that if the issue of the
LTA had been included in the RFP for the IOA, then the incumbent should not be so
barred as the package had already been competitively bid once. The second issue was
that if such a clause had not been included in the initial RFP, and there were to be a
competitive bid for the LTA, should the incumbent be allowed to bid at all or should he
be barred from bidding because of his informational advantage. On one side, many
proponents argue that established operators would not bid on short interim arrangements
if they are barred from the subsequent long term arrangement. Others, however, feel that
allowing the incumbent to participate in a competitive bid makes a mockery of the
rebidding process. The issue is still being considered by the Bank.



ix
(d) Monitoring of specif ic covenants on operational andfinancial targets should be
included in the terms of reference for the financial audits.
(e) Bank needs to be more pro-active in its review of audit reports. Audit deficiencies
should have been followed up with an engaged dialogue, technical assistance and final
resort to the remedies of the Loan Agreement.
(f) When projects are linked, this should be formalized. In this case, the implicit link
between WSIS project and its follow-up operation could not be formalized leading to
misunderstandings. The use of the Adaptable Program Lending, a new Bank tool, can
address this linkage by formalizing a commitment for additional financing with clear
conditions and triggers for its approval.
(g) Care needs to be taken that specialized inputs provided by international
consultants must be well grounded in local conditions. This may be achieved either
through twinning with local consultants, intensive local knowledge and adequate
participation by the Government. This was demonstrated both by the early experience of
TTWS in WASA and the consultants preparing the Water Resources Management
Strategy.
(h) Changes in task managers often poses significant costs to project implementation
and country dialogue. This may often pose a trade-off between management's need for
a fresh look at a project and the possibility of inconsistent messages to the Borrower.
New task and department managers should be more conscious of previous commitments
made to the Borrower. This contrast showed up well in the water resources management
component where Bank liaison remained constant through the project, and the
relationship remained strong despite limited and uncertain administrative budgets.
(i) Water resources management and utility reform should be coordinated. Water
resources management is an integral part of water sector reform, and indeed should
provide the framework for water utility management. In practice, sectoral specializations
of most task teams has meant that these are followed independently of each other, with
limited interaction. Though both were included in this Project, in practice, their
implementation was largely separate.






1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
(LOAN 3784-TT)
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.   Country Background and Development Strategy. Trinidad and Tobago is a
small island economy with a population of 1.3 million. Historically dependent on oil
and gas revenues, its economic fortunes have followed fluctuations in world oil prices.
With the increase in oil prices in the seventies, per capita incomes increased to $6,600 in
1982, only to decline to US$3,900 in 1993 as oil prices collapsed, forcing the
Government to undertake major structural reforms, reduce the size of the public sector
and liberalize economic policies. By 1994, about half the public assets had been
divested and the public payroll significantly reduced. The World Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy in 1994 focused on improving the business environment, reducing
and refocusing public expenditures, rehabilitating infrastructure in water, drainage and
flood control with complementary institutional reform, and developing the human
resources base.
2.   Project Rationale. In 1994, the water and sanitation sector posed a special
challenge. Though a middle income country, water services in T&T were of poor
quality. 92% of the population was estimated to have access to water, but 70 percent
received water only intermittently, and only 30 percent of the population had access to
sewerage services. The Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA) was over-staffed and
inefficient with poor quality of service and required high levels of Government-transfers -
US$ 800 million by 1992. Yet, the water supply and distribution systems were in a state
of disrepair due to under-investment and poor maintenance, unaccounted for water was as
high as 50%, and tariffs were unsustainably low. Despite reducing the labor force by
2400 since 1992, WASA remained overstaffed with 18 employees per 1000 customers,
six times the norm for well run utilities. As a result, operating revenues covered only
60% of operating expenses.
3.   The rest of the water sector was also in trouble. Rivers and streams flowing
through urban areas were heavily polluted. Lack of coordination and a comprehensive
vision of the sector, conflicts among competing uses, insufficient investment and
inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure, had led to deterioration and disrepair
causing serious environmental damage in the upper reaches of the main rivers. The
establishment of a sound national water resources management was an urgent priority.
4.   The Government first tried to improve WASA operations by appointing a local
management group, but service improvements were marginal. It was clear that more
radical action was needed, and in July 1994, the Government committed itself to private



2
participation in WASA operations. Though a World Bank investment operation for
WASA was already in preparation, the situation was deemed urgent enough for a new
Technical Assistance (TA) project to support the private participation approach. The
Project was identified in February 1994, appraised in March, approved in August under
fast track procedures, and made effective in November of the same year. In addition to
preparing a new institutional structure for WASA, this TA project also included the
design of an overarching policy and institutional framework for the management of water
resources, as well as the technical designs for follow-up investment loans in water supply
and sanitation, drainage and flood control and watershed management.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
5. Project Objectives. Project objectives were to implement a stabilization program
for WASA including5:
(a) Provision of essential technical and material resources to prevent the collapse of
WASA during its transition to private management;
(b) Preparation and implementation of a fundamental reorientation to private sector
management of WASA;
(c) Preparation and implementation of an integrated water resources management
strategy; and
(d) Design of the physical rehabilitation of water supply and waste water facilities and
drainage and flood control structures.
6.   Project Design:  To achieve these objectives, the project had three components:
(a) Reorganization of the Water Sector Management (Appraisal estimate $ 5.4
million, Actual $4.3 million) This component aimed to bring coherence to water sector
management with an integrated policy, regulatory and institutional framework for
managing the supply and distribution of water resources and environmental planning
and management. This framework was expected to underpin the investment operations
planned in Water Sector Rehabilitation, Drainage and Flood Control, and Watershed
Management. Major activities included: (i) Strengthening the Public Utilities
Commission; (ii) Development of a water resources management strategy; (iii)
Equipment for the Water Resources Agency to manage the hydrologic network; and (iv)
Strengthening the Project Implementation Unit within the Ministry of Public Utilities.
5As defined in the Memorandum of the President paragraph 12 with reference to paragraph 9. Project
objectives are defined differently in summary to the MOP, which excludes the first objective. Schedule 2
of the Loan Agreement, states the project objectives to be " strengthen the institutional framework of the
Borrower's water sector, through actions aimed at (a) integrating different aspects of water resources
management; (b) improving environmental planning and management, (c) introducing private sector
operators in the provision of water services, and (d) separating operating responsibilities from regulatory
and planning responsibilities. The ICR preparation team elected to evaluate the project based on the
objectives in the MOP as they are closest to project design and cost allocations and are assumed to be the
ones the project design team used in project design.



3
(b) Private Sector Participation in Water Services (Appraisal estimate $19.8 million,
Actual $27.7 million) This component included: (i) the establishment of an
emergency fund for critical equipment, spare parts, and operating supplies to prevent
the collapse of WASA; (ii) the design and implementation of private sector participation
in WASA; (iii) interim management support during transition to private management;
and (iv) preparation of a rehabilitation program for water supply and of environmental
mitigatory measures to be financed under the following investment project; and
(c) Drainage and Flood Control Project Institutional Support Preparation Assistance
(Appraisal estimate $7.8 million, Actual $3.9 million). This component included: (i)
the preparation and implementation of the proposed Drainage and Flood Control
Project, and (ii) the establishment and strengthening of a Project Implementation Unit.
7.   Appropriateness of Project Objectives and Design: Given the context of 1994,
overall Project objectives were appropriate and properly ambitious for a middle income
country, though they could have been stated more consistently across different project
documents. Given the urgent needs in the sector and three major investment operations
in the pipeline6, this TA project was to provide the framework for institutional reform and
strengthening for overall water resources management as well as improved management
of the water utility. In fact, the integrated approach to water resources management
included in project design was very innovative and considered "best practice". For
WASA reform, project design followed a sensible approach of providing limited
financing for emergency rehabilitation, a private operator to improve operational
performance, and monitoring operational improvement through two financial covenants -
working ratio and debt service. The Projectper se did not specify the form of private
participation, which was to be designed during implementation, though by the time of
appraisal it was clear that a two step approach was likely to be followed.
8.   Though this overall approach was sensible, the actual covenants to monitor
operational performance (working ratio and debt service) were too broad, and did not
easily separate out the factors under Government control - tariff revisions and regulatory
issues - from operational improvements that depended on the private operator's
effectiveness. More specific covenants on specific actions would have been advisable.
The appraisal perfornance indicators could also have been better specified - subsequent
missions found that these were either unrealistic (metering requirement) or excessively
ambitious. The metering indicator also assumed the availability of investment financing,
an assumption that was not made explicit. The inclusion of financing for preparing
technical designs and bidding documents for two proposed investment operations in
water and sanitation facilities and drainage and flood control was probably due to
practical considerations to allow Government access to some early financing. As it
turned out, this raised expectations for the follow-up projects, and eventually became a
distraction in implementation as these investment operations were delayed or cancelled.
6 The Water Sector Rehabilitation Project, the Drainage and Flood Control Project and the Watershed
Management Project.



4
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
9.   Project implementation started well with the rapid implementation of the
emergency operational fund for WASA. Other components, however, suffered delays,
and over time project implementation became fraught with delays and implementation
problems, at times straining relations between the Bank and the Borrower especially on
the component on the private participation of WASA, its transition to a longer term
arrangement and the issue of a complementary investment loan for water and sanitation
rehabilitation. The Project was eventually closed on June 30, 1999, after an extraordinary
extension of one year despite Unsatisfactory ratings on implementation and development
objectives at the time of extension. This extension was made at that time as it was
considered important to maintain Bank involvement and policy dialogue in the crucial
last year of the management contract for WASA, when the Government's strategy for
long term private management of WASA was to be articulated. In response to a special
request, the Bank also extended the four month grace period for disbursements by an
additional two months, at which point US$926,885 was to be cancelled7.
10. Reorganization of the Water Sector Management (Actual Project Costs: $4.13
million) Though the lynchpin of water sector reform, this component often got
overshadowed by the more high profile problems of WASA. A critical activity in this
component was the preparation of the Water Resources Management Strategy. Given
its cross-sectoral nature, it was directed by an Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee
(IMSC) headed by the Ministry of Planning and Development8, and this was critical in
bringing together the existing fragmentation in managing water resources in the country.
The study was marked by a series of delays - in preparing terms of reference, mobilizing
consultants, inappropriate sequencing of inputs, slow review by the IMSC - and was
finally launched in June 1997, two years after project effectiveness. The draft consultant
report submitted in August 1998 required significant revisions as some key components
were not considered adequately responsive to local conditions, in part due to inadequate
use of local counterparts by the foreign consulting firm chosen, and compounded by the
fact that a dedicated counterpart team on the Government's side was also hired very late -
14 months into a 15 month study.
11. Despite these delays and problems, the final product now proposes an innovative
strategy and institutional framework for managing water resources in line with 'best
practice" approaches. It includes a draft water resources management policy, a
legislative and regulatory framework, and alternative institutional options for a new
Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA). Specifically, it recommends: (i)
the separation of the regulatory function for water resources (currently carried out by the
Water Resources Agency (WRA) as part of WASA) from the service delivery function of'
WASA; (ii) the establishment of an independent, financially viable WRMA to replace the
current fragmented institutional framework;. (iii) structural and non-structural controls
for flood protection of watersheds and inhabitants; and (iv) a framework for
7 Due to the extension of the grace period, this Implementation Completion Report is being submitted one
month later than the normal six month period. Final withdrawal applications were still being processed at
the time of this ICR, so the cancelled amount is an estimate.
8 The IMSC comprised representatives from WASA, Water Resources Agency, Ministry of Public
Utilities, Planning and Development, Housing and Settlements, Works and Transport and Agriculture.



5
environmental protection. Unfortunately, study recommendations did not get
implemented during the Project because of the initial delays. A Cabinet note for actions
needed to implement these recommendations is now under preparation.
12. The component also financed strengthening of the WRA through new telemetry
and computer equipment, a surface water quality monitoring program and training for
staff. The installation of the telemetry and communications equipment installation is
largely complete, though both systems are still not fully functional and remain to be
tested completely. In hindsight, the telemetry contract should have been tested on pilot
areas before full implementation. Some training was provided for WRA staff, but as a
training plan was not defined a priori, this agency got a somewhat limited share of the
training funds of the project. Overall, though WRA has been strengthened, it still needs
to improve its capacity to maintain and manage its hardware, to evaluate what data that
needs to be collected, its value to different client users and developing the capacity to
offer new services to fulfill its role effectively.
13. This component also included strengthening the PUC, but no funds were used as
the PUC was replaced with a new Regulated Industries Commission (RIC) in 1994. This
Commission is still not fully functional and has not found a de facto role. The
Government is currently using IDB MIF funds to design regulations and regulatory
instruments for the RIC and to train RIC staff.
14.  Private Sector Participation in Water Services (Actual Project Cost: $27.7
million) This component was designed to provide emergency rehabilitation support,
finance the strategy and implementation for private management of WASA, and to design
a longer term rehabilitation works program.
15.  The Emergency Operational Fund: At US$19.4 million and 55% of Project
costs, this was the largest activity of the project, and financed critical spare parts and
operating supplies such as pumps and motor spares, chemicals, pipes, leak detection
equipment, water quality testing equipment, sewer cleaning and TV inspection equipment
to prevent the collapse of WASA before the private operator came in. Implementation of
this activity started immediately after project effectiveness and was completed rapidly.
16. Private Participation in WASA ($1.9 million): In terms of potential development
impact, this was one of the most important parts of the project. Through project funds,
the Government hired a consortium of Banque Paribas and Halcrow to define and
implement its private participation strategy. After a study tour to Europe, the
Government decided to go with a two step approach - an immediate Interim Operating
Arrangement (IOA) of a management contract followed by a Longer Term Arrangement
(LTA) to be defined subsequently. This gradualist approach was favored as: (i) the legal
and regulatory changes needed for a deeper approach such as a concession were expected
to take too long, (ii) there was little reliable data on WASA making the valuation of
assets being transferred difficult; (iii) political resistance to private ownership of assets
and tariff increases. The two-step approach to sustainable private sector participation
was endorsed by the Bank as a sensible, gradualist approach.



6
17. Five qualified bids9 were received for the IOA, with the winning bid coming from
TTWS, a local company formed by the consortium of Severn-Trent International and
Wimpey Construction. Though negotiations were completed in August 1995, the IOA
was not signed until November 1, 1995, five days before national elections. This delay,
apparently due to review by the Attorney General, was unfortunate as a new Government
then took office and was confronted with a signed international obligation in a politically
sensitive sector in which they had had no input. The new Government undertook a
substantial review of the contract, and eventually made it effective on April 4, 1996 with
some changes. The Government also appointed new Board members, replacing those
who had been involved in the development of the IOA.
18. As finally negotiated, the IOA provided for a three year management contract in
exchange for a payment of US$ 9.1 million for fees and related expensesl' for 37 man-
years of seconded management staff, and an additional US$937,000 for special focus
team personnel. These fees were to be disbursed contingent on certain performance
indicators. Except for input deliverables for the first year, these performance indicators,
however, were not specified within the contract and were to be negotiated later. It also
provided for preferential rights to negotiate the subsequent LTA, a clause which was
considered important to attract reputable bidders. The IOA also included a loan of
TT$450 million (US$72.5 million) arranged for by TTWS, but guaranteed by the
Government, for covering WASA's operational deficits. Finally, the contract also
provided the contractor preferential rights to several capital works to be undertaken
during the contract period, a clause which eventually led to TTWS undertaking the
customer cadaster (costing US$2.7 million) and serve as the general contractor for the
US$102 million South Water project.
19. TTWS initially provided 13 foreign staff, including the General Manager. TTWS
staff turnover was high, with only one of the original team remaining by the Mid Term
Review, and several issues emerged on the quality of some personnel and their fit with
local conditions. Over time, more Trinidadian staff were brought in and a more collegial
atmosphere emerged. However, the relationship between TTWS and the WASA Board
of Directors was rocky and marked with distrust through most of the contract period,
particularly the beginning. From the Board's point of view, some TTWS staff were not
up to par with a high propensity to propose large capital expenditures to be sole-sourced
by them. On TTWS' part, they had limited operational autonomy with little room for
operational improvements in the absence of much deferred rehabilitation expenditures.
All their expenditure requests were viewed with suspicion and delays, and the Board
interfered unduly in day to day managerial decisions.
20.  Though this relationship improved over time, at the end of the Project all parties
were left with unfulfilled expectations. At the appropriate time, TTWS submitted a
proposal for a LTA, to which the Government's response was delayed and ambivalent.
No agreement was reached and TTWS left WASA in April 1999. At that time, though a
Cabinet Committee was studying LTA options, no clear policy was articulated, pending
which WASA has reverted to being a public utility. The Cabinet has now approved in
9 Thames Water, Anglian Water, Lyonnaise des Eaux, SOUR and Sevem-Trent Companies.
' US$ 5.6 million in fees and $3.5 million for related expenses for personnel.



7
principle its commitment to an LTA with private participation for WASA, and
preparatory work for legal and regulatory changes has begun. However, no major policy
decisions or actions are expected before the outcome of the next elections in November
2000.
21. In retrospect, the IOA never really had much of an opportunity to succeed. One,
neither the IOA, nor the chosen operator, had the support and the commitment of the
WASA Board. The IOA was negotiated by the previous Government and at least some
members of WASA's new Board started the process with a high level of skepticism and
distrust. Two, this distrust was compounded by the fact that the contract itself was poorly
designed, a fact now widely accepted within the Government and the Bank. The
contractor had little at stake, the management fees was not effectively linked to
performance measures as these had been left undefined. Though the contract did foresee
six indicators to be included in the determination of fees, the contract did not specify
these performance indicators, which were to be agreed during the contract period, with
data generated by the contractor. At the same time, the contractor also had a significant
upside with sole source rights to capital works initiated within the contract period. This
combination of lack of accountability for results, low risks and a high potential upside for
capital works compounded the natural distrust of the "foreign" contractor. Three, the
legal and regulatory framework for WASA remained unchanged. Though TTWS took
over management, it continued to be supervised by WASA's Board of Directors which
had earlier supervised a public utility. With a private management arrangement a clearer
separation of the Board's policy and oversight role and TTWS' management role was
required and this did not take place. This ambiguity allowed the Board to interpret its
role and duties broadly and at least some members of the Board sought to involve
themselves actively in WASA management, leading to delays and conflicts, and not
giving the management contractor the space and authority to manage. Finally, the
situation was complicated by the fact that the World Bank financing for rehabilitation
works expected to accompany the management contract was delayed, and eventually
cancelled. This became a rallying point both for the contractor and the Government as
another reason for less than expected improvements in WASA.
22. WASA Performance During the IOA: During the IOA, WASA achieved some
operational improvements - water production increased by 30% to 176 mgd, plant down-
time was reduced from 64 days to 4 days, average collections increased by 60% and
personnel were reduced from 3507 to 2394 in March 199911. As a result, the working
ratio reached an almost break-even level of 97% for the first time in 1998-99. This was
achieved by increases in tariffs for industrial users in Point Lisas (46% contribution to net
operating income before depreciation), reduction in personnel costs (29% contribution)
and some operational improvements.
23. However, four of the five performance targets defined in the Memorandum of the
President and agreed upon at the time of negotiations were not achieved, with the
12
exception of the target of number of customers billed . While the percentage of
lNumber of employees per 1000 connections decreased from 18 to 8.
12 The Government eventually agreed on six different performance indicators with TTWS in January
1998: continuity of supply of water, operating ratio, debt to total income ratio, operating sales, treated
water production capacity, and staff seconded to WASA. But these were not monitored.



8
population with water service more than 12 hours per day increased from 30% to 42%,
this was well below the 70% target. Working ratio improved to 97%, but failed to meet
the target of 75%. Unaccounted-for-Water decreased from 50% to 45%, but below the
42% target'3. No domestic meters were installed, as later supervision missions agreed
that this would be inappropriate in the absence of continual water supply and in any case
financing for it was not available in the absence of the investment project. After
depreciation, amortization, financial expenses and exceptional items are taken into
account, WASA continues to have a deficit of US$26.2 million, and it has a long way to
go to become a commercial oriented corporation.
Table: Performance Indicators: World Bank Appraisal and Actual Performance
Indicator                                   MOP Target Two Years After First      Best
Phase Assumption of Responsibility by    available
the Private Operator i.e. April 1998.  data
Unaccounted for Water                       42%                                   45%a
Increase in percentage of population receiving    70%                             42%3
water at least 20 hours per day
Installation of Domestic Meters             Additional 40,000                     nonec
Working Ratio                               75%                                   97%a
Numbers of customers billed                 230,000                               234,263 e
a  Data for 1998, WASA Tariff Study, London Economics.
b  1999 WASA estimates for population receiving water about 12 hours per day.
c  8000 commercial meters were bought and 4837 installed. No domestic meters installed as the Bank later agreed
that this should be postponed as it was impracticable to install meters as service connections did not receive continual
service. With air passing through the pipes, volumetric metering was not considered reliable.
For fiscal year 1998, calculated from Emst and Young, draft audit report as of March 31, 1999.
e  WASA estimates for number of customers billed as of March 31, 1998. Halcrow Report, March 1998.
24. Design of Rehabilitation Works (US$6.4 million): This component supported
technical designs and preparation of bidding documents for several rehabilitation works
expected to be financed under the following investment operation, as well as other
technical studies such as the tariff study, a customer cadaster, and a water loss reduction
study, all of which are integral parts of a longer term strategy for WASA. The tariff
study was undertaken though the Government has not yet presented an action plan to
implement it. The customer cadaster was also done through TTWS, and WASA is
currently testing its results for accuracy. This should lead to the incorporation of a large
number of previously unregistered users. WASA also completed the technical designs
and bidding documents for works costing about US$10 million. Some of these were
actually put out to bid, which then had to be cancelled as the investment operation did not
materialize. This led to considerable tensions between WASA and the Bank, as well as
with some potential bidders who incurred expenses in preparing these bids. Some
technical designs were later used for the works being undertaken through the South
Water Project funded by the Government.
13 WASA estimates that if illegal connections were taken into account, the actual losses would be closer
to 42%.



9
25. Drainage Component (US$3.9 million): This component was reduced in scope
and US$5 million of its initial allocation was transferred to WASA for its emergency
operational fund. Some of the planned technical designs were moved to the next
investment project. This component funded a short term rehabilitation plan, the design of
the Caparo river works, three other technical studies as well as economic analysis and
environmental assessments on which $1.4 million of Bank financing was used. As the
follow-up project got delayed, the Government undertook some of the designed works
through their own resources on the expectation of retroactive financing from the Bank
project. The follow-up drainage project is currently awaiting appraisal.
26. Project Financial Management: Project financial management remained an
issue throughout implementation period. Audit reports were generally late, and did not
conform with Bank guidelines. Two of WASA's three audit reports received thus far
had a Qualified opinion from the auditors and highlighted several weaknesses in internal
control procedures.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
-  Change of Government and lack of political consensus on the IOA - Due to the
unfortunate timing of signing the IOA less than a week before elections, and the lack
of a wide public debate during its preparation, the new Government and WASA's
Board of Directors had little buy-in into the contract and viewed the contract with
suspicion. In such a situation of distrust, the IOA had limited chances of success.
3  Changes in task managers and country management within the Bank - On the
Bank's side, there were five task managers through identification to completion, as
well as a major management change and an accompanying change in portfolio
supervision culture and incentives with an emphasis on greater realism in project
ratings. Thus, the later project teams highlighted the emerging flaws in the IOA
design and the lack of progress on sector reform, while earlier teams had been much
more supportive of the IOA. Though the Bank's criticism was of specific issues of
contract design, and it remained supportive of deeper privatization reforms such as
concession, the subtlety of this distinction both got lost on less technical persons, and
was used successfully by proponents of the status quo in undermining support for
private management of WASA. Changes in task and country management also led to
delays and eventual cancellation of the US$100 million investment project. This was
a correct judgment at that point of time, but the long decision process, while
expenditures on the preparation of the project continued, vitiated the country dialogue
and distracted from the implementation of this Project.
* The absence of legal and regulatory reform - The IOA was undertaken without
substantive legal and regulatory reform. The role of the Board of Directors was never
redefined, and this ambiguity was successfully used by proponents of the status quo
to undermine performance under the IOA.
* The design of the IOA - Finally, it must be acknowledged that the design of the IOA
itself, with its inadequate framework of incentives and penalties contributed in large



10
part to the atmosphere of distrust. This was compounded by the lack of public
debate during its preparation and the inappropriate timing of signing before elections.
E. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
27.  Overall project objectives are not considered to have been achieved. Of the four
objectives, only the first objective of avoiding a technical collapse of WASA operations
was achieved. However, the longer term objectives of sector reform and institutional
change were not achieved, without which the sustainability of the emergency operational
investments also remain uncertain. The objective of a fundamental change to private
sector management of WASA was not achieved. Though the Government did put in
place an IOA, this has since ended with WASA reverting to public management. The
Cabinet has endorsed a policy for a Long Term Arrangement in WASA, but limited
progress in this regard is expected before the elections in 2000. There remains a danger
that the less than stellar experience with the IOA may in fact strengthen the constituency
against private management, delaying the whole process. Nor has the Government yet
articulated an action plan for revising tariffs or strengthened the Regulated Industries
Commission. The objective of strengthening water management cannot be said to be
achieved either, though its prospects are considered to be good. Good technical work
has been done which seems to have broad-based support. The objective will be
considered to be achieved, only when the policy and institutional changes are
implemented. The final objective of designing a drainage and flood control project can
be considered to be partially achieved, as the needed technical designs for the investment
works are in place. However, the actual works are yet to start as there remains
substantive policy issues unresolved - on cost recovery and contracting out of works.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28. Unlikely in the short term and Uncertain in the medium term. Since the major
objectives of the Project were not achieved, sustainability remains unlikely at least in the
short term. Given the timing of elections next year and a likely hard campaign, the
likelihood of major or politically sensitive changes is seen to be low, especially as labor
unions typically become more significant in the election year, and they have publicly
noted their dissent to any form of private management in WASA. Similar considerations
are likely to apply to the policy decisions needed for the drainage and flood control
sector. The implementation of the water resources management strategy offers better
prospects, and the Bank is prepared to assist the Government with technical assistance in
implementing this strategy, should the Government so request. In the longer term,
however, it is inevitable that Trinidad and Tobago will address the issue of the quality
and reliability of water services. T&T is a middle income country with a good human
resources base and high standards of living. Public outcry and pressure for improved
water services will inevitably bring forth change despite a few, but highly entrenched
vested interests. As mentioned above, the Government has now started work on the
needed legal and regulatory changes needed for a long term arrangement. The important
point here would be to learn from the experience of this IOA, to initiate an open dialogue



Ill
on options for reform, take decisive and clear actions with adequate changes in the legal
and regulatory framework and then put the weight of the political process to make it a
success.
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.  The Bank shares responsibility in the unsatisfactory performance of this project and
overall Bank performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Bank perfornance was less than
adequate in the design of the private participation approach and the review of the
contract. Bank staff participated actively in the discussions on the private participation
approach and the preparation of the bid documents. In retrospect, the Bank should have
pushed harder for a deeper form of privatization, and at the very least been more vocal in
its opposition to a management contract that allowed the ambiguity of the role of the
Board, an incentive structure that had little downside for the contractor except for
abrogation, a poor framework for monitoring performance and linking it to the
contractor's own incentives. At least one Bank Aide-Memoire does express the Bank's
concern on the poor framework for incentives and penalties in the contract, and there is
14
no evidence of any formal no-objection by the Bank for the final contract
Nevertheless, the Bank did subsequently endorse the contract. Later Bank missions did
not focus adequately on the issue of deciding the performance pay indicators or pressure
the Government into hiring an independent firm to develop at least basic baseline
indicators on the basis of which to judge contract performance.
30.  Supervision was deficient on one important fact, which later caused significant
problems. The financial covenants related to WASA were not monitored for much of the
implementation period, and the lack of progress towards appraisal indicators dismissed as
over-ambitious expectations. Further, the IOA as negotiated was not completely
consistent with the Loan Agreement, as it did not require the contractor to meet the
covenants of the LA. In fact some clauses contained in the IOA, such as non-revision of
tariffs during the IOA period made it virtually impossible for WASA to achieve the
financial covenants of the LA. These anomalies were ignored. The Bank should either
have been insisted that the IOA be consistent with LA, or amended the LA to maintain
clarity of expectations and benchmarks for measuring performance. This was, however,
never addressed and later when the task management changed, later project teams
downgraded the Project to Unsatisfactory status, based on non-compliance with these
covenants. Indeed, changes in task management had a significant impact on this Project
and on the broader country dialogue. Initial project teams were highly supportive of the
two step approach to privatization and gave the Government high marks for the
successful implementation of the emergency operational fund. Later teams that came in
focused more on the emerging inadequacies of the IOA, the non-compliance of the
financial covenants and the absence of a sustainable long term strategy for WASA,
leading to the downgrading of the project to unsatisfactory. Though such changes on
project perspective are not unusual, especially at the time of profound management
14 Since the management fees were not to be financed by the Bank, apparently such a no-objection was not
sought nor required by the Project team, though the Loan Agreement did give the Bank that prerogative.



12
changes within the Bank, from the Government's point of view, this was perceived as a
sudden change in the Bank's attitude and a shift in the goal post with little warning.
31. The Bank's position on the follow-up investment loan also changed over time and
was not communicated clearly either internally or to the Government, leading to
misunderstandings and inconsistent actions. The initial rationale for financing technical
designs for the investment operation was that these investments would be undertaken
within the IOA period. However, the investment loan was significantly delayed in
preparation, but the WSIS project continued financing technical designs and bidding
documents for rehabilitation works for which WASA clearly had no alternative funding
sources. Once the investment loan was delayed, and if the long term approach for
WASA was likely to be a concession, it is not clear why the Bank continued financing
these technical designs, which should correctly have been designed by the
concessionaire. Yet, the technical designs continued well into 1997, and on the basis of
the eligibility of these expenditures for retroactive financing if a follow-up loan were to
be approved, WASA invited bids for investments valued at $10 million, many of which it
then cancelled as the loan did not materialize. In May 1998, when the task and country
management changed, the inconsistency of the investment operation and the LTA finally
came to the fore and a revised design to the follow-up investment operation was proposed
- focusing on the preparation of the LTA, water services for the poor, upgrading of water
facilities to meet environmental standards and a voluntary separation package. The Bank
also recommended that the project be conditioned on: tariff increases for Point Lisas's
commercial users; reduction of labor force to 2500; preparation of a privatization strategy
and compliance with financial covenants. The Government viewed these as new
conditions for a Project already promised and for which substantial preparation
expenditure had already taken place - again, a perceived shifting goal post.
32. Bank supervision was also lax on substantive action on the consistently late audit
reports, most of which were not of acceptable standards to the Bank. In the case of
WASA, two of the three audit reports thus far have had Qualified opinions. Yet, the
Bank's only response was letters and reminders. It should have instead followed a more
pro-active approach of engaged discussion, focused technical assistance, and the eventual
use of its remedies under the Loan Agreement.
33. In some part, much of the seemingly inconsistent behavior on part of the Bank was
due to several changes in task management, reorganizations within the Region and at
least one major management change. At that time, there was also a significant change in
the overall portfolio management culture within the Bank and the incentives of the task
teams. With a new management, quality assurance audits and greater scrutiny of the
disconnect between supervision ratings and OED evaluations, there was a strong
emphasis on higher realism in project ratings, a willingness to recognize problems in
project implementation rather than glossing over them and enforcement higher standards
of financial management and reporting procedures.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34. Borrower performance on the Project is also rated Unsatisfactory, and was uneven
across the Project. On the water resources management, the Inter-Ministerial Committee



13
must be commended for its challenging task of pulling together sectoral interests and
taking strong ownership of extracting quality input from the consultants. However, the
long delays in implementation and in appointing a counterpart team limited the impact of
the component, at least in the duration of this project. meant that the recommendations
did not get implemented in the project period. On the WASA component, the
Government did go ahead with the IOA, but all actors in the Government did not provide
the support or constructive criticism that could potentially have gotten the best possible
result from it. The Government was also not able to reach consensus on the long term
strategy for WASA. Nor did the Government take action on the regulatory framework -
RIC is still largely not functional. Though it did undertake a tariff study, and revise
tariffs for the Point Lisas industrial area to TT$ 7.50 per cubic meter in July 1998, it has
not presented an action plan to the Bank to establish prices appropriate to achieve
conditions for sustainable operations. Such a plan was required to be submitted as part
of the loan covenants. Finally, financial management remained an issue, with continually
late audit reports, which were not consistent with Bank standards. WASA's audit reports
had a qualified opinion for two of the three years audited.
I. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
35.  The overall outcome is considered unsatisfactory as the project was not successful
in meeting its objectives.
J. FUTURE OPERATION
36. Water Resource Management - The implementation of the WRMS remains a
challenge for the Government. The IMSC is now preparing a Cabinet Note to lay out the
recommendations of the strategy, which then needs to be endorsed by the Government,
and then the legal changes made. It has been proposed that the WRMA will be
established under a newly created Ministry of Environment. It is important that this
process retain momentum as its implementation period is likely to go beyond the term of
the present Government. When established, the WRMA will need considerable
institutional strengthening in implementing the highly innovative recommendations. The
RIC remains to be strengthened, and the Government has now accessed IDB funds to
help with the preparation of a regulatory framework and train staff.
37. WASA - WASA has now reverted to being a publicly managed utility, and there is
no clear policy for its long term management. The Government continues to explore the
possibility of a Long Term Arrangement with private management for WASA, and the
framework for the regulations now being prepared for the RIC are within this assumption.
However, it is unlikely that substantive policy actions will be taken before elections in
late 2000. In the meantime, WASA, under its new management is undertaking large
scale capital works as part of its drive towards service improvements, including the South
Water Project (US$ 102 million) for the rehabilitation and new works of small water
supply systems, new water treatment plants and refurbishment of existing works. It is
also planning the North Water project (US$ 104 million), Tobago water project (US$ 100
million), a new water treatment plant (US$200 million) and a desalinization plant in Point



14
Lisas under a BOT or buy-out contract with investment of US$ 120 million. WASA
management needs to pay much more attention to institutional changes to improve
operational efficiency, as well as putting in place adequate mechanisms and funding for
maintenance. Otherwise, these large capital investments will not be sustainable in the
long tern.
38. Drainage and Flood Control Management: An investment operation for drainage
and flood control works has been prepared and is now pending appraisal following policy
agreements on policy on cost recovery and contracting out.
K. LESSONS LEARNED
39. Private Participation in Infrastructure (PP) Approaches: With all the
implementation problems of this project, it is sometimes easy to forget that after Buenos
Aires, Argentina and Monagas, Venezuela, the management contract in Trinidad offered
one of the early examples of private participation in the water and sanitation sector. At
that time, there was little knowledge base on these approaches and limited experience.
Nevertheless, this experience offers some important lessons for practitioners of PPI
approaches.
(a) The needfor an open process in designing PPI approaches and public sharing of
contracts. Governments often tend to be highly secretive about PPI strategy and
contracts. In fact, an open and participatory process of designing strategy and the
publication of the contract, would lead to a broader dialogue, greater transparency and
broader ownership. In this case, as the contract was signed days before an election, it
automatically became a point of distrust for the new Government.
(b) Successful management contracts need a good structure for incentives and data to
monitor it - This lesson has been reinforced by a World Bank review"5. For
management contracts to be successful, they must embody a good framework for
incentives. In successful management contracts, the fixed fee element is often small,
with most of the fees coming from incremental improvements in net revenues
generated by the contractor, which internalizes management incentives. This would
have been all the more important for a situation such as Trinidad where there is limited
baseline data to measure performance. In the absence of performance or output
information, WASA Board instead tried to monitor inputs - managerial decisions on
maintenance and capital expenditures - with disastrous results.
(c) The penalty.structure in the contract should also be graduated, abrogation alone
is not an effective remedy. In this case, abrogation of contract was the only effective
remedy for unsatisfactory performance. However, abrogation is useful only in the
case of consistently poor performance. Because of its drastic implications, it is not a
useful remedy for fine-tuning performance. A contract should thus contain a more
graduated structure of penalties. This lesson was applied in the management contract
15 See for example, Bureaucrats in Business, A World Bank Policy Research Report, 1995.



15
for postal services in T&T, where the management contractor's fees is graduated on
several pre-determined performance indicators.
(d) The contract itself needs to be comprehensive and self-contained, built on
articulation of clear principles rather than long lists of speciflc details. It is
inevitable that during the operation of any contract actual circumstances will change or
unforeseen events will come up. These can be resolved more clearly if there is a clear
philosophical delineation, rather than an attempt to list all possible eventualities. The
WASA contract, on the other hand, tried to list every possible detail, which often
became obsolete in implementation. In defining the role of the Board and
management, it has a long list of 64 activities with carefully divided responsibilities. It
is not difficult to imagine circumstances where disputes would emerge on
interpretation of whether unforeseen activities belonged to one category or the other.
(e) The management contractor should have the autonomy and resources to meet the
performance indicators: In the case of the WSIS contract, the actual capital
investments needed for the management contractor to fulfill their expected
performance targets were not clearly defined. Eventually, these capital investments
were not forthcoming and it could not be determined whether the shortfall in WASA's
performance came from lack of operational improvements or lack of capital financing.
This lesson was learnt in the subsequent management contract for the Postal Services
where the capital investments assumed for meeting the performance targets in the
contract have been included in the contract.
(f) Getting a baseline of select indicators from an independent consulting firm is an
invaluable investment of time and money. The lack of adequate data on the condition
of assets and operations has sometimes been used as an excuse not to go for a
concession. Even for approaches such as management contracts, this data is essential,
and an independent survey to develop a baseline should be done as soon as possible to
be able to enforce accountability in the contract.
(g) Two step inter-linked approaches to privatization may pose too many
complications to be worthwhile. This management contract included a clause which
allowed the winning bidder in the IOA to have preferential rights to negotiate the LTA.
The preferential right for negotiating the LTA was included to attract reputable bidders.
However, negotiations for such contracts are difficult at the best of time, and the
preferential rights of the incumbent makes the negotiations for the all important LTA
much harder and introduces an additional element of lack of transparency. Further,
management contracts and concessions usually have different objectives, and different
types of skills and strengths are needed from the winning bid. For both these reasons,
it is better to delink the two.
(h) The Government needs to acceptfull responsibilityfor the development of
performance indicators and the underlying data. In this case, it was left as the
responsibility of the management operator who clearly had limited incentives to
generate this data.
Bank Procedures:



16
(k) Bank review procedures may not be appropriate for some PPI projects. Typically
Bank review is required at project concept and appraisal stages. However, in TA
projects such as this which support the design of a privatization strategy, the actual
contract (management contract or concession) is the most important document and is
really the essence of the project and sector strategy supported by the Bank. In
practice, actual Bank involvement in contract details has varied depending on the
country, project and the supervision team. Typically, a no-objection from the Bank is
not required for these contracts as the Bank does not finance the management fee and
some countries keep the final versions of the contract confidential. However, as these
contracts are central to the achievement of project objectives, the Bank should exercise
its rights to no-objection of the final contract, and this no-objection should be subject to
a more formal and participative internal review beyond the project team.
(g) Bank's preparatory team should include, at an early stage, a legal specialist in
contracts dealing with private participation in infrastructure to ensure that the contract
is clear and enforceable. It may also be advisable to get expert advice from a specialist
conversant with the Borrower's legal framework. The contract legal specialist should
also be involved in the review and no-objections mentioned above.
(1) The Bank's procurement rules need to evolve continually to deal with the new
challenges of PPI approaches. In particular, the procurement and PPI communities
within the Bank need to give project teams guidance on the complex issues arising
from two step approaches. In this project, two issues came up during implementation,
on which the Bank had no clear guidelines, leading to much debate within the Bank.
While the debate was productive, it led to delays and sometimes mixed messages in
guidance to the Borrower. The first issue was whether the incumbent should be
allowed the preferential rights to negotiate the LTA at all given their information
advantages. The Bank ultimately decided that if the issue of the LTA was included in
the RFP for the IOA, then there should be no barring of the incumbent as the package
had already been competitively bid. The second issue was that if there was to be a
competitive bid for the LTA, should the incumbent be allowed to bid or barred from
bidding because of their informational advantage. On one side, many proponents
argue that established operators will not bid on short interim arrangements if they are
barred from the subsequent long term arrangement. Others, however, feel that
allowing them to participate makes a mockery of the rebidding process. This issue is
still being considered by the Bank.
(m) Where there are speciflc covenants on operational andfi-nancial targets in the
Loan Agreement, the monitoring of their compliance should be included in the terms
of reference for the financial audits.
(n) Bank needs to be more pro-active in its review of audit reports and
communications to the Government. As in other projects, here too deficiencies were
communicated by letter, but perhaps should have been discussed more up-front to
ensure improvements in quality.



17
(o) When projects are linked, this should be formalized. In this case, the implicit link
between WSIS project and its follow-up operation could not be formalized leading to
misunderstandings. The use of the Adaptable Program Lending, a new Bank tool, can
address this linkage by formalizing a commitment for additional financing with clear
conditions and triggers for its approval. In particular this case has shown that, Bank
management should avoid informal commitments for retroactive financing.
(q) Care needs to be taken that specialized inputs provided by international
consultants must be well grounded in local conditions. This may be achieved either
through twinning with local consultants, intensive local knowledge and adequate
participation by the Government. This was demonstrated both by the early experience
of TTWS in WASA and the consultants preparing the Water Resources Management
Strategy.
(r) Changes in task managers often poses significant costs to project implementation
and country dialogue. This may often pose a trade-off between management's need
for a fresh look at a project and the possibility of inconsistent messages to the
Borrower. New task and department managers should be more conscious of previous
commitments made to the Borrower. This contrast showed up well in the water
resources management component where Bank liaison remained constant through the
project, and the relationship remained strong despite limited and uncertain
administrative budgets.
(s) Water resources management and utility reform should be coordinated. Water
resources management is an integral part of water sector reform, and indeed should
provide the framework for water utility management. In practice, sectoral
specializations of most task teams has meant that these are followed independently of
each other, with limited interaction. Though both were included in this Project, in
practice, their implementation was largely separate.



18
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives  Substantial   Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies    ELl                                     [x-]
Sector policies          El 0l
Financial objectives     EE                         [x]           El
Institutional development   El1 El                                E
Physical objectives      El              E                        El
Poverty reduction        El             El          E l
Gender issues              l            Ei          E2 l
Other social objectives    l            E                         Fx1E
Environmental objectives   El           E            l            [
Public sector management  El            El          II            E
Private sector development  ElE                     E             E
B. Project Sustainability      Likely            Unlikely          Uncertain
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory
Identification              E                  [El              El
Preparation assistance      EL                 El               [E
Appraisal                   El                 El               [
Supervision                 E                  El               IX]
D. Borrower Performance        Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory
Preparation                 El                  x!              El
Implementation              El                 E                 x
Covenant compliance         E                  El
Operation                   ElE                                 [ J
Highly      Partially     Unsatis-    Highly Unsatis-
Satisfactory  Satisfactory  factory  factory
E. Assessment of Outcome
Overall Project               E            E             [0          El
Water Resources Management    El           [E            E          E
WASA                          E            El           Ex]         El
Drainage and Flood Control    El           E             IX          3



19
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title       Purpose          Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
Loan 3152-TR -                               January 1990            Closed
Structural Adjustment
Loan
Following operations
No new loan for the water sector has been approved. The rehabilitation loan for WASA was
dropped. The Drainage and Flood Control Project has been prepared, but appraisal is pending
resolution on some policy issues.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned     |     Date Actual
Identification /Preparation               March 1994          March 18, 1994
Appraisal                                 May 1994            May 27, 1994
Negotiations                              June 1994           June 29, 1994
Board Presentation                       August 1994          August 2, 1994
Signing                                  August 1994          August 23, 1994
Effectiveness                             August 1994         November 21, 1994
Loan Closing                              June 30, 1998       June 30, 1999



20
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ millions)
FY95    FY96   FY97   FY98  FY99  FYOO
Appraisal Estimate             12.5    22.0    24.6  25.0
Actual                          3.4     9.3    13.5  19.8   22.2    24.1
Actual as % of Estimate        27%      42%    55%   79%    89%        96%



21
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
GORTT Objectives           Project                   Expected Results/Impact               Responsible Agency    Timing target   Achieving
Component                                                                                   (end of)       of target
Activities                                                                                                (end of)
Pursuit of private sector   Strategic Plan and  I. Appointment of advisors to the process of bringing   MPU and WASA  May 1994      April
orientation in provision   Advisory       in a private sector operator                                                               1994
of water services       Assistance to     2. Definition of First Stage Private Sector       MPU/WASA assisted   June 1994           NA
Reorganization of Water  support the      Participation Model                               by consultants
and Sector Institutions    process of     3. Completion of First Stage Bidding Documents    MPU/WASA assisted   July 1994           Nov. 1994
divestment of the                                                   by consultants
public sector     4. Start Special Audit of Trade Accounts Payable  Auditors, GOTT         July 1994        Aug. 1994
from the          5. Convene Meeting of Trade Creditors and launch  GOTT                   August 1994
provision of      process of clearing outstanding liabilities
water and         6. Completion of Financial Audit of 1993 Accounts    Auditors, GOTT      August 1994      NA
sewerage          7. Launch First Stage Bidding process             MPU and WASA           August 1994      Nov. 1994
services.         8. Selection of suitable partner                  GOTT                   November 1994   November
1,1995
9. Appointment and start of First stage           MPU/WASA              January 1995      April 4,
leasing/management arrangement                                                            1996
10. Start of definition of long-term model for private    MPU/WASA assisted   January 1995
sector participation                             by consultants
11. Start of financial due diligence exercise    MPU/WASA assisted   January 1995
by Consultants
12. Completion of financial audit of 1994 accounts  Auditors, GOTT      June 1995
13. Definition of Second Stage process of private  MPU/WASA assisted   June 1996         Not Done
sector participation                             by consultants
14. Completion of bidding documents for second   MPU/WASA assisted    December 1996   Not done
stage                                            by consultants
15. Launch of bidding process                    GOTT                   March 1997       Not Done
16. Completion of second stage process           MPU/GOTT               September 1997   Not Done
17. Equity partner in place under new organizational    GOTT            January 1998     Not Done
and legal structure
Reorganization of Water  1. Reorganize    1. Legal framework analysis to allow for private  GOTT assisted by       Sep. 1994 -      Not Done
Sector Institutions     WASA to allow     sector participation                              consultants            March 1995
for private sector
participation
2. Develop a      2. Development of water resources management      MPD/ISSC               July 1994 -      May 97 -
comprehensive     strategy                                                                 Dec. 1995        Dec. 99
strategy for water  (a) Formation of Inter-Sectoral Steering Committee  GOTT               July 1994        Apr. 1995
resources.        (ISSC)
management



22
(b) Endorsement of national policy for watcr       ISSC                   August 1994
resources management
(c) Launch of Phase I Studies                      ISSC consultant        December 1994   May 97
(d) Launch of Phase 11 Studies                     ISSC consultants       June 1995
(e) WRM Framework endorsed                         ISSC                   September 1995
(f) Workshop on WRM issues                         ISSC                   October 1995      Aug. 1998
(g) Start of Phase III Implementation of strategic plan,  Different agencies  December 1995
development of master plans in the sub-sectors
3. Reorganize the   3. Restructuring study under the Strategic Plan   MPU/WASA assisted    March 1995           Study
Water Resources   Assistance for WASA                                 by consultants                            completed
Agency to carry                                                                                                 December
out its strategic                                                                                               1999
role
4. Reorganizc the   4. Development of a Reorganization Plan for the   MOWT Drainage           Implementation:  Not
Drainage           Drainage Division                                  Division               from June 1995   implement
Division of                                                                                  to May 1997        ed
MOWT Ito meet
its strategic role
and functions
Development of a        Reorganize and      1. Definition of the Regulatory framework          Consultants            Nov. 1994 to      RIC Law
Regulatory Framework   restructure the                                                                                June 1995         enacted .
for the water sector    PUC                 2. Institutional Strengthening of the PUC          MPU/GOTT               May 1995 to       No longer
Dec. 1995         applicable
(a) Assess staffing needs                          MPU/PUC Assisted by  Aug. 1995           On-going
consultants
(b) Prepare Training program                       MPU/PUC assisted by   Oct. 1995           On-going
consultants
(c) Implement Training                             PUC Assisted by        Dec. 1995 to       On-going
consultant             Dec. 1996
3. Implementation of recommended measures and      GOTT                   June 1995 to       On-going
mechanisms                                                                Dec. 1996
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Not defined at appraisal.



23
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Entity                 Study                   Purpose             Status/date         Impact
completed
MPD, MPU,WRM         Water Resources          Integrated approached to   Not completed    Not
management Strategy      water resource                             implemented yet
management
WASA                 Rehabilitation of water  Feasibility study for    24 Sep. 99
treatment plant          rehabilitation
Monitoring of wells and    Harnessing full potential   31 May. 99
aquifers                 of wells
Rehabilitation of        Improve system's         Aug. 99
Reservoirs               reliability
Rehabilitation of Booster   Improve system's      26 Aug. 99
Pump Stations            reliability
Rehabilitation of 100 km    Feasibility study and  2 May 99
of Distribution System   designs
Bulk Meters              Monitor flow and         31 May 99
pressures
Network Mapping and      Monitor flow and         Aug. 97
Modeling                 pressures
Domestic Metering        Improve use of water and  Jun. 97
revenues
Water Collection &       Improve treatment        25 Jan. 99
treatment                facilities
Water Loss Program       Reduce UFW               18 Dec. 98
Dams Inspection &        Improve safety &         12 Nov. 96
Rehabilitation           rehabilitate
Dams Break Analysis      Improve safety           18 Dec. 98
Customer Demand          Assess water usage       22 Feb. 99
Monitor
Environmental Impact     Assess impact on         22 May 96
Assessment               environment
Tariff Study             Recommend tariff         Jul. 98
structure and increases
Customer Cadastre        Improve customer data
base
MOWT                 Environmental Impact     Assess impact on         July 98
assessment               environment
Upper River Basin        Reduce impact and        Nov. 97
Management Plan          severity of flooding
Consolidation of         Project appraisal        Oct. 98
Economic Analysis
Social Impact Assessment  Assess social impact of    NA
projects
Caparo Designs           Mitigate environmental    Dec. 99
degradation
Marabellai Vistabella    Control sedimentation &    Dec. 96
Study                    erosion
Short Term Rehabilitation  Reinstate water courses
plan



24
TABLE 8 A:    PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal (US$th.)                        Actual (US$th.)
Local        Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign       Total
A. Reorganization of Water Sector Management                 2066.4        3340.0        5406.4         355.3       3969.0      4325.3
Water Resources Management Strategy                       1764.4         3027.0       4791.4          90.5       3882.3       3972.8
MPU and PUC                                                302.0          313.0        615.0         264.8         87.6        352.4
B. Private Sector Reorientation of Water Services            9188.9       10652.3       19841.2      10080.0       17593.3    27673.3 a/
Strategic Plan & Advisory Assistance                      1361.3         2455.9       3817.2             0       1912.4       1912.4
Interim Management Support                                 326.7          416.9        743.6             0            0            0
WASA Rehabilitation Project                               1725.9         1991.2       3717.1          710        5650.6       6360.6
WASA Emergency Operation Fund                             5775.0         5788.3      11563.3         9370       10030.3      19400.3
C. Drainage & Flood Control, Project Institutional           4209.9         3616.0       7825.9       2192.1        1686.2      3878.3 a!
Support and Project Preparation Assistance
Project Institutional Support                              905.9          641.9       1547.8         689.6 ____    265         954.6
Project Preparation Activities                            3304.0         2974.1       6278.1        1502.5       1421.2       2923.7
Total Project Cost                                          15465.2        17608.3      33073.5      12627.4       23249.4 - F35876.8 b/
PPF Refinancing                                                    _                                                 300.0        300.0
Unallocated across above Categories                                                                                  526.0        526.0 c/
Grand Total                                                 15465.2        17608.3      33073.5      12627.4       24075.4    36176.8
a/ Scope of the Project component changed.                                                      _
b/ Physical and price contingencies have been prorated among Project components.                                           _
c/ Information provided by the Borrower of expenditure distribution across appraisal categories only accounted for $23.5 million. Available information in the Bank's records is by
disbursement categories in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement, and one disbursement category often includes several of the sub-categories in the above table.
Thus, the remaining disbursements (all of which were for eligible expenditures" have been subsumed in an Unallocated row, rather than being assigned to one or the other
categories arbitrarily.



25
TABLE 8 B:    PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal (US$M)                       Actual (US$M)
Local       Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign      Total
IBRD Loan                                                   7.5         17.5         25.0    n.a.         n.a.           24.1
PHRD Japan Grant                                            0.0          0.1          0.1    n.a.         n.a.            0.1
Government of Trinidad and Tobago                           8.0          0.0          8.0    n.a.      _  n.a.           12.0
Total Financing                                            15.5         17.6         33.1    n.a.        n.a.            36.2



26
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
NA                         -



27
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section  Covenant Present   Original    Revised                Description of                     Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment              covenant
date       date
2.02(b)     02       C                            The Borrower shall open and maintain in
dollars a special account in the Central
Bank.
3.04(a)    05       CP       3/31/95              By no later than March 31, WASA to enter Contract with private
into a contract with a private sector  operator effective on 4/2/96.
operator acceptable to the Bank, under  Contract terminate 4/99.
terns and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, such contract: (a) to be in force until Level of management
the completion of the Project and (b) to    autonomy remained
bestow upon the private sector operator the  inadequate during
full technical and financial responsibility   implementation.
for the management of WASA's water
supply and wastewater services.
3.05      05        C                            (a) Borrower shall maintain, until
completion of the project: Project
Implementation Units, within MOWT,
MPU and WASA, with all functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
3.08      05        C      03/31/95              WASA shall contract and thereafter retain
the consultants required to assist WASA in
carrying out part B of the Project.
3.09(a)    09        C      06/30/95              With regard to Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a draft
regulatory framework.
3.09(b)     09       C      12/31/96              By no later than December 31, 1996: (i)   RIC Legislation enacted.
put into effect the regulatory framnework
referred to in para. (a) above, to the extent
that no enactment of legislation is required;
and (ii) submit to the Borrower's
Parliament a legislative proposal which
requires enactment of legislation.
3.10      02       NC      03/30/97              With regard to Part B of the Project, by no
later than March 30, 1997, the Borrower
shall bring WASA to the point of
divestment and to publish advertisement for
sale, long term leasing, contracting of
services or granting of concession, as the
case may be, and to issue the prospectus or
the tender documents related to such sale,
leasing, contracting or grant.
3.11      06       NC    11/30/1994              (a) By no later than Nov. 30, 1994, the
Borrower shall: (a) Through MOWT, carry
out an environmental impact assessment for
the purposes of part C-2 of the Project; and
(ii) cause WASA to carry out an
environmental impact assessment for the
purposes of Part B (c) of the Project (b) the
recommendations of the aforesaid
environmental impact assessments.
3.12      05       CP    11/30/1994              Prepare and furnish to the Bank progress
reports by not later than May 31, and
November 31 of each year.



28
3.13       09        C    By June                  The Borrower and WASA through the
each year               corresponding Project Coordination Units,
by no later than June 30 of each year,
review in conjunction with the Bank the
progress achieved in the implementation of
the project.
4.01       1        CD    Not later                Maintain records and separate accounts of  Audits of 1998/1999 overdue.
than March             the project, and furnish audit reports of
31                      project account, SOEs and the special
account.
4.02        1       CD    Not later   Not later    Maintain records and separate accounts and Audit report of 1998/99
than March than June   fumish audit reports of Financial        overdue.
31         30           Statements, project Account, and SOEs.
4.04       13       NC    12/31/96                 The Borrower shall ensure that WASA     Tariff study was prepared,
furnish to the Bank an action plan aimed at but plan not submitted.
establishing prices for water services
appropriate: (i) to achieve levels of capacity
utilization; (ii) to cover operating costs, and
(iii) to meet financial obligations.
4.05       02       NC                             (a) WASA will maintain a working ratio of
100% for FY 94, 85% for FY95, and 75%
for FY96; (b) Before June 30 of each year,
WASA shall, on the basis of forecasts
prepared, takes all necessary measures to
meet requirements.
4.06       02       NC                             WASA will not incur any debt, unless the
next revenues of WASA for the FY
immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence shall be at least 1.25 times the
estimated maximum debt service
requirements of WASA.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                  8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                    allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                         13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



29
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title         Describe and comment on lack of
compliance
OP 13.30 Extension of Closing date     The Closing Date for the loan was
extended from June 30, 1998 to June 30,
1999, even though the project was rated
Unsatisfactory.
OP 10.02 Financial Management      Extension of Closing Date despite several
audit reports not consistent with Bank
standards, and Qualified in the case of
WASA.
BP 13.30 Closing Dates           Grace Period for final disbursement
extended beyond four months after Closing
Date by management decision.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project Cycle           Actual
Weeks  US$ ths.
Preparation to Appraisal          3.8      14.6
Appraisal-Board                   3.4      13.4
Negotiations through Board Approval  6.4   18.5
Supervision                       64.7    260.1
Completion                         8.0     41.6
TOTAL                            86.3    348.2



30
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of                       Number                       Specialized      Implemen-       Develop-
Projectagyle oMonth/              of         Days in        Staff Skills       tation          ment          Types of
Project Cycle           Year       Persons        Field        Represented         Status        Objectives      Problems
Through Appraisal             2/94         2            12        Privatization
Financial
Appraisal through Board       3/94         I            8         Privatization           _              _               _
Approval
Supervision                  3/95          2            4         Fiancial                S               S_l
7/95         2            7                           ..._Sanitary
7/95  2           7        ~~~~ ~~Financial__   _ _  _ _ _   __ _ _   _ __   _ _ _  _ _
10/95        2             3        Sanitary               NA              NA
Financial
2/97         2           ._         Sanitary                5
2/97  2          7        ~~~~~~Financial
5/98         3                      Privatization
Sanitary
11/98        3             7        Privatization           Uu
Economist
Guarantee Spec.
Completion                   12/99         2            7         Financial
I_______ I___   Economist        _



31
APPENDICES



32
APPENDIX A. AIDE MEMOIRE
Water Sector Institutional Strengthening Project ICR Preparation Mission
October 26-29, 1999
1.   A World Bank mission comprising of Jyoti Shukla (Task Manager) and Carlos
Moreno-Pineda (consultant) visited Port of Spain between October 26-29, 1999. The
main purpose of this mission was to hold technical discussions on the preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report for the above project. An earlier mission in June
1999 had already discussed with the Government the overall process and timing of the
preparation of the Report. The mission would like to express special thanks to the
Ministry of Public Utilities for organizing a very efficient schedule and for having the
necessary documentation ready. During this visit, the mission had a chance to meet with
Ministers Ganga Singh (Utilities), Sadiq Baksh (Works and Transport) and Trevor
Sudama (Agriculture and former Minister of Planning), the Permanent Secretaries of
Planning and Utilities, several members of the PIUs for the project in the Ministries of
Utilities, Works and WASA, the management and Board of WASA as well as the Ernst
and Young, the auditors for the Project. Ms. Shukla also took the opportunity of this
mission to meet with the PIU of the Postal Services Reform Project and the Managing
Director of TTPost, a project she will henceforth manage from the Bank's side.
2.   Status of the WSIS Project: The WSIS project is now closed as of June 30,
1999 and coinciding with the end of the mission, the normal grace period of 120 days for
processing disbursement applications also ended on October 30, 1999. In accordance
with the letter from Ms. Kalantzopoulos dated October 1999, the Bank has agreed on an
exceptional basis to reimburse up to an amount equivalent to US$331,468 for specific
activities until December 31 provided the audit reports for 1998 were received. The
mission was informed that the audit reports for WASA and the Special Account were
now available and were being transmitted to the World Bank by mail. The audit report
for the Ministry of Works Drainage Division PIU was still pending. The mission
informed the Government that the Bank would not be able to process additional
disbursement applications until all these reports were submitted.
3.  ICR Preparation Schedule and Next Steps: All PIUs shared with the mission
substantive information on project activities financed, their assessment of the
development effectiveness and plans for the future. Based on these discussions, the
World Bank and the Government will be preparing their respective assessments and
agreed to share these with each other by the first week of December, 1999. In the case
of the Water Resource Management strategy in particular, the mission was informed that
the additional work being undertaken by the consultants would be available by November
10, 1999 and would then be evaluated by the Government. The adequacy of this
additional work was a key factor in the overall assessment of this component by the
Government. Given this, as well as the fact that project disbursements would be allowed
until December 31, 1999, it was also agreed that the Government would send the Bank a
letter requesting a one month extension for the submission of the ICR to the Board. In
this regard, the mission would also like to remind the Government that the date of final



33
disbursements of this project also coincides with the holiday season as well as the
expected shutdown of some computerized systems due to needed Y2K- related
maintenance. Therefore, it is important that the audits and the final disbursement
requests not be delayed till the last minute.
4.   Postal Services Reform Project: Ms. Shukla also met with the PIU for the postal
project as well as the Managing Director of TTPost and discussed in detail the
procurement management of the project and was assured that all procurement under
World Bank funds would be undertaken by NZPost with the review by the PIU limited to
assuring its compliance with the Capital Investment Plan and World Bank procurement
procedures. The role of the Board would be confined to policy oversight. The mission
also reviewed the proposed procurement plan and discussed with the PIU the format for
requesting no-objections to procurement of goods and works - specifically that the cover
letter mention the compliance of the procurement to a specified category of the capital
investment plan as well as the compliance of the tender document to the World Bank's
standard bidding documents. The mission also informed the PIU that Daniel Boyce,
Financial Management Specialist, will be in Trinidad the week of November 16 to
undertake a review of the Central Bank Special Account procedures, following which it is
expected that disbursements could then be made through the Special Account.
Modification of the present PMRs to include the capital investment plan as well as the
performance indicators of the management contractor was also discussed. The PIU
indicated that at this time, they did not find the proposed modifications useful as they had
already developed alternative monitoring systems.
Jyoti Shukla
On behalf of the World Bank
Sent from Washington DC on November 10, 1999



34
APPENDIX B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



35
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3784-TR
GENERAL
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Water Sector Institutional Strengthening Project (WSIS)
(Loan No. 3784-TR) financed by the World Bank. The loan in the amount of US$25 million was approved on August
2, 1994 and made effective on November 21, 1994. The loan was closed on June 30, 1999, one year after the
original closing date. Final disbursements took place in January 2000 at which time approximately US$1.9 million
was cancelled.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The overall project objectives were:
*  To strengthen water resources management (i.e. Reorganisation of Water Sector Management).
*  To support private sector management in the Water and Sewerage Authority (i.e. Private Sector
Reorientation of Water Services).
*  To prepare a drainage and flood control project (i.e. Drainage and Flood Control Project Institutional support
and Project Preparation Assistance).
PROPOSED STRATEGY
To achieve the project objectives, a three-phased strategy comprising the under-mentioned elements was to be
implemented:
(a)    A Short-Term Stabilization Program to:
(i)    provide essential technical and material resources to WASA;
(ii)    prepare and implement a fundamental reorientation to private sector management of
WASA;
(iii)    prepare and implement an integrated water resources management strategy; and
(iv)    design the physical rehabilitation of water supply and waste water facilities and drainage
and flood control structures.
(b)    A Rehabilitation Program to deal with the most pressing technical problems facing WASA and to
start enhanced maintenance of the country's drainage and flood control infrastructure.
(c)    A Medium-Term Investment Programme to execute high priority drainage and flood control
works, wastewater treatment facilities, expansion of coverage of sanitary sewerage, and to develop
water resources to cater to growing industrial and residential needs in the southwest of Trinidad.
REALLOCATION OF FUNDS
The World Bank approved the reallocation of funds among categories of expenditure. This is shown at Table I below.
The reallocation was necessary to finance a significant upward adjustment in the consultancy component of WASA
due to the underestimation of the requirements. The reduction in the scope of works on the Drainage and Flood
Control Project allowed the necessary reallocation to be achieved.



36
TABLE I
Loan Disbursements by Category
IBRD Funding - US$Million
Category/Component                           Original       Revised        Final
Allocation     Allocation     Expenditure
Part A - Reorganisation of Water
Sector Management:
Ministry of Public Utilities
Goods          Category 1 - Part A             1.36           1.7                 0.15
Consultancies   Category 2 - Part A            2.23           2.6                 3.81
Sub Total               3.59           4.3                  3.96
Part B - Private Sector Participation
in Water:
Water and Sewerage Authority
Goods          Category 1 - Part B             5.25          10.1                 10.0
Consultancies   Category 2 - Part B            5.60           8.4                  7.5
Sub Total              10.85          18.5                  17.5
Part C - Drainage and Flood Control
and Support:
Ministry of Works and Transport
Goods          Category 1 - Part C             0.14          0.4                  0.32
Consultancies   Category 2- Part C             3.71          1.3                  1.27
Sub Total               3.85           1.7                  1.59
Training - Category 3                          0.5           0.5                  0.15
Project Preparation Facility                   0.4
Unallocated                                    5.81
Grand Total                                    25.0           25.0                23.2*
*Still to be finalized
PROJECT EVALUATION
The evaluation of the WSIS project would be undertaken under the three main components of the project.
A.     Reorganization of Water Sector Management
This component included the following:
*  Strengthening of the Regulatory Body to deal with the changing institutional framework in the
utility sector.
*  Strengthening the Project Implementation Unit within the Ministry of Public Utilities to enable it
to supervise and coordinate the implementation of the Water and Sewerage AuthoriF'
divestment process and the water sector reorganization process.
*  Water Resources Management Strategy Development to provide for the basic framework
within which various development programmes in water and sewerage development, drainage
and flood control and watershed management will be pursued.



37
Strengthening of the Water Resources Agency within WASA to purchase data collection
plafforms that would enable the telemetering of hydrologic information for more efficient
management of the hydrological network.
Under this component, four (4) contracts for Goods and Services and Consultancies were awarded. Additionally, the
development of the new legislation for the Regulatory Body was also completed. The present status and the
constraints are outlined in Table II below.
ASSESSMENT OF ACHIEVEMENTS
Notwithstanding the delays and problems encountered, the major achievements under this component are:
(i)    the completion of the Water Resources Management Strategy for sustainably managing the surface and
groundwaters of Trinidad and Tobago and the recommendation of separation of the regulatory functions
from the service delivery functions of WASA;
(ii)    the development of a new regulatory framework for the country's Public Utility Sector; and
(iii)   an approach to the Long Term Arrangement (LTA).
TABLE If
Reorganization of Water Sector Management - Status
Component                   Status                      Comments
Water Resources Management Strategy   Completed    Delays experienced due to the quality problems of the
Consultants, late start of the study, slow turn around
time for comments etc.
Water Quality Monitoring Programme    Completed    Delays due to Change in scope from 12 monitoring
stations to 31 stations. World Bank did not approve
the variation, as a result Government provided the
extra funding.
Supply and Installation of Telemetering  Completed    Delays due to: change of equipment specifications;
Hydrological Equipment                             shipping schedule; additional services to provide
security; completeness of Database etc.
Procurement of Computer Equipment     Completed    Although no problems were encountered, there is still
need for additional capital.
Regulated Industries Commission       Completed    New Act legislated in the National Parliament. Delays
_____________________________________ ____________ experienced at the drafting stage to drafting of the Act.
B.     Private Sector Reorientation of Water Services
This component comprised the studies and institutional support needed to implement a fundamental and
rapid reorganization of the water sector and included the following:
(i)    Strategic Plan and Advisory Services for Private Sector Participation.
(ii)    Interim Management support to WASA.
(iii)    WASA Rehabilitation Detailed Design and Project Preparation Activities.
(iv)    WASA Rehabilitation Emergency Operational Fund.
Overall, 113 main contracts were awarded to a value of US$17.497 million, including 83 contracts for
procurement of goods and services at a value of US$10.0 million and 30 consultancy contracts at a value of
US$7.5 million.
Assessment of Achievements
Some of the significant outcomes under this major component of WSIS were:
*  the introduction of private sector participation through the Management Operator Contract (IOA);
*  the completion of the Tariff Study;
*  the development of the Phase I of the Customer Demand Monitor Plan;
*  the completion of the basic framework for the Customer Cadastre Study which will lead to increased
revenues in the future;



38
*  the revised organizational restructuring and downsizing resulting in a more acceptable employee to
customer ratio;
*  the implementation of an Industrial tariff for water (from $3.50 to $7.50 cu. m3);
*  the development of the second phase of the private sector involvement i.e. the development of the Long
Term Arrangement (LTA) for WASA. The LTA option has been developed whereby WASA is to be
divided into an Asset Company and an Operating Company. The Operating Company to be fully private
sector owned;
*  the completion of detailed design and project preparation activities for 100 km of pipeline; 11 service
reservoirs; 18 water treatment plants; 15 booster pumping stations; 11 wastewater plants and 22 lift
stations; and
*  the completion of a plan to adopt all sewerage plants which are owned by private Developers.
MONITORING INDICATORS
Under this component, there were several indicators which were to be monitored. These were: supply of service;
customers billed; revenue per customer; working ratio; current ratio; unaccounted-for-water (UFW); and installation of
domestic meters.
Service Improvement
Overall, there has been improvement in the supply of service to customers as shown in Table IlIl below:
TABLE IlIl
Supply by Class of Service
Class of Service                                    Population (%)
December 1995             December 1997              December 1998
Population     %          Population      %          Population     %
1                  85,568         8.13        213,063        19.62       317,573        29.19
2                  193,203        18.35       193,662        17.83       137,232        12.61
3                  149,513        14.20       127,820        11.77       156,809        14.41
4                  92,811         8.82        192,910        17.76       178,309        16.39
5                  531,672        50.50       358,717        33.03       297,988        27.39
Class 1 - 168 hours per week;        Class 2- 120 to 168 hours per week;
Class 3 - 84 to 120 hours per week;  Class 4 - 48 to 84 hours per week;
Class 5 - less than 48 hours.
Other Indicators
1996               1997               1998             1999
No. of Employees                3,508              3,439              2,901            2,394
Working Ratio                    1.29               1.85               1.45             0.97
Current Ratio                   0.25                0.36              0.35              0.65
Average Revenue per                                                   1,137             1,267
customer
Customers Billed               250,138            293,011            294,263          294,810
The above indicators clearly suggest that there has been a significant progress in complying with most
covenants of the WSIS's loan agreement. In the case of installation of domestic meters, there has been little or no
improvementiprogress because of lack of funds. However, the degree of achievement of project's objectives sho jld
realistically be assessed in light of the constraints or limitations. Among these was the fact that the project
commenced 15 months later than expected.



39
Secondly, the loan was signed and the indicators set before the selection of a private management
operator. The IOA Contract established its own priorities and indicators. For instance, there was to be no rate
increase during the term of the Contract except the implementation of PUC Order #83, no forced reduction in labour
force and more importantly, under the business plan of the Management Operator, a small Operating surplus would
have been achieved only in the final year of the Contract. Consequently, the targets under financial covenants were
not only unrealistic but could not have been achieved as proposed at the signing of the World Bank loan.
Thirdly, the performance targets or measures agreed under the IOA did not have to meet, in all cases, clear
and pre-set levels of service and were not capable of robust measurement. Furthermore, the failure to meet these
targets did not carry penalties for the Management Operator under the IOA Contract. As a result, there was little
incentive for the Operator to perform at the level initially expected.
Fourthly, many of the major WSIS's components which would have had significant impact on the financial
and operational indicators, were completed towards the end of the project. Some of these were: Customer
Cadastre, labour reduction, tariff study. Consequently, the benefits are more likely to be observed after the
completion of the project.
Finally, the World Bank's promised WSSRP loan, the effectiveness of which was anticipated by the end of
the first year of the IOA Contract, did not materialize. As a result, the additional capital investment so critical to the
success of the whole project was not securely tied in to deliver long term service improvements at WASA. Improved
management by itself was not sufficient to make significant improvements in service provision. In particular, WASA's
strategy for the reduction of leakage and the improvement of continuity of supply has been severely hampered by the
lack of the World Bank's promised loan.
C.     Drainage and Flood Control Project
Institutional Support and Project Preparation Assistance
This component provided funding for the Project Implementation Unit, computer and other office equipment,
training and consultant services needed for the Drainage and  Flood Control Project.  The
Consultancies/Studies and Construction Works undertaken are detailed at Table IV below.
Assessment of Achievements
Largely due to the size of the construction works and the type of consultancies/studies under this component
of the project, the overall impact and the achievements have been limited.
TABLE IV
Consultancies/Studies and Construction Works
Activity                                Objective                   Date Completed
Consultancies/Studies:
Environmental Impact                                                             July 1999
Assessment                          The objective of these studies was to reduce the
frequency and severity of flooding, mitigate
Upper River Basin                   environmental degradation, control sedimentation  November 1997
Management Plan                     and erosion etc.
Consolidation of Economic Analyses                                               October 1998
Social Impact Assessment
Caparo Long Term Designs                                                         December 1996
Marabella Vistabella Study                                                       July 1997
Short Term Rehabilitation Plan      The objective was to reinstate existing water July 1997
courses
Construction Works:
Caroni River Basin Short Term Works  The objective of these works was to reduce the  July 1999
frequency and severity of flooding.
St. Anns River Basin Short Term Works                                            September 1998
Sluice Gates in Caroni Irrigation Area                                           September 1999
Caparo River Basin Short Term Works                                              November 1999
Diego Martin Short Term Works                                                    February 2000



40
BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The orderly execution and implementation of the WSIS project was constrained and hampered for a variety of
reasons. These are discussed below. It is to be noted that they generally relate to WASA which received tie
greatest amount of financing and awarded 113 main contracts.
1.     WASA Procurement Procedures and Availability of Resources
The implementation of the project was constrained to some extent by WASA's procurement
procedures which required stringent processing and approval at each stage i.e. invitation,
evaluation, award and contract signing. This resulted in some delays and time loss.
The lack of computer hardware and software, especially during the first year, affected lhe
preparation of documents and data processing to some extent.
2.     Management Changes at WASA
The management changes during the loan negotiations and execution also impacted on Ihe
implementation of the project, especially during the early stages of the project. Even prior to Ihe
signing of the IOA contract, the approval of the preparation of the World Bank Programme was
subject to the discussions with the Private Operator. Finalization of many documents were
therefore delayed.
3.     Scope of Works/Terms of Reference
During the pre-appraisal stage of the project, the project definitions were too brief i.e. they lacked
the detail necessary to develop detailed terms of reference and cost estimates and in the case of
the works components, detailed scope of works. Instead, project scope was determined primarily
from brief descriptions of work to be done and against a set budget. This resulted in a large
disparity in scope between what was proposed based on the budget and what was required in :he
field. Even the reduced scope of works was still over the budget since investigations indicated :he
need for upgrade of facilities rather than rehabilitation in many cases.
4.     Execution of Consultancies
Foreign consultants were originally proposed for the project in view of the expertise required. Vrith
the appointment of the Foreign Private Sector Operator, however, it was suggested by the B.ank
and agreed by WASA that Severn Trent would provide such expertise. This did not work because
Severn Trent lacked the capacity to treat with the number of consultancies under the WSIS.
What evolved instead were foreign/local joint ventures which did not work because the Iccal
consultants having won the contract (based on its association with a foreign partner) did not diaw
on the expertise of the foreign partner. The consequence of this was that quality control was not of
a high standard i.e. tender documents were not prepared with document control system to ensare
compliance with the requirements and standards prescribed. In particular, some of the consultants
were not familiar with World Bank guidelines for the preparation of these documents. The World
Bank requirements were also onerous especially in the area of the Environment and Financals
where specialists not normally on the consultants' staff were required. The Consultancies were
also plagued with the problem of frequent change in project managers and therefore lacked
continuity.
The scope of work of the consultancies included feasibility studies and was significantly above vhat
could have been done in the time allowed for completion.
Furthermore, the WSIS project depended heavily on the use of the WASA operating resources to
evaluate the work of the consultants. The WASA resources, however, were either inadequate in
quantity and quality and/or stretched.
5.     Time Schedules
The time imposed by the World Bank for the execution of consultancies inclusive of pre-
qualifications and tender period (6 months) was impractical and affected the quality of the word( of
the consultants.



41
6.     World Bank Approval Process and Loan Administration
The publication of notices within the Business Development News resulted in at least two months
delays for a number of components.
In the early stages of the project, the approval process was reasonable. With the change of Task
Managers, however, the requirements changed and affected the rate of approvals and therefore
the progress of the projects. Tasks that originally could be done in parallel, e.g. approval of the
shortlist of Consultants, had first to go to the Bank and then to WASA's Tenders Committee.
The World Bank's approved approach for Bid Documents for consultancies was too elaborate for
basic rehabilitation work. It was too demanding in details, too voluminous, too many unnecessary
demands for a basic replacement of "like with like". As a result, the WASA resources were also
stretched, resulting in delays.
The World Bank "No Objection Process" required "no objections" at all stages i.e. Terms of
Reference, List of Bidders, Bid Documents, Bid Selection, etc., in addition to internal WASA
approvals. This resulted in considerable delays.
Furthermore, the "no objections" were not always timely due to the other commitments of the
Task Managers of the World Bank.
7.     Payments and Disbursement Procedure
The disbursement procedure caused delays in payments to consultants and suppliers since the
payment procedure was generally time consuming. Overall, the payment process involved a
number of steps:
(i)    two stops at the World Bank;
(ii)    one at the Ministry of Public Utilities;
(iii)    one at the Central Bank (Special Account); and
(iv)    one at the PIU (WASA).
The timely availability of funds from the Special Account became a problem at times because:
(i)    the funds from this Account were being utilized by three beneficiaries at the same time;
(ii)    the amount of funds in the Special Account were limited up to a maximum of US$1.5
million;
(iii)   the Ministry of Works and Transport (Drainage Component) had direct access to the
Special Account.
The procedure for submission of requests for reimbursements to the World Bank was also time
consuming because of the World Bank requirements and the Special Account procedures.
The process for requests for direct payments was also time consuming as the suppliers and
consultants desire almost immediate payments for their own cash flow purposes.
8.     Private Sector Participation
At least initially, the private sector participation also partially slowed down the rate of
implementation of the WSIS project. This was due to a number of factors. For various reasons,
and with faults on both sides, the original Board and Management Operator did not form the
partnership essential to the success of the IOA. Additionally, the Board, which took its legal
responsibilities seriously, did not fully appreciate and distinguish between its policy function and the
day-to-day management function of the top management.
The lack of penalties for non-performance under the IOA contract also hampered the achievement
of greater service provision by the Operator. Continuing debates between Management and the
Board occurred over performance issues and over expenditure priorities also worked against the
rapid improvements that were expected from the private sector involvement. The Operator also
failed to demonstrate an ability to combine tactical flexibility with strategic sense of purpose.



42
There was also a strong perception that the Management Operator did not bring "true expertise"
into the organization, thereby resulting in resentment by the local managers. The local manage's
also resented the disparity in remuneration between the local and foreign management. This
perception was further complicated by the fact that the post of the Logistics Manager had to tie
terminated because of his involvement in inappropriate actions.
9.     Impact of Frequent Changes of Task Managers
The loan execution and implementation has experienced five different Task Managers at the World
Bank, bringing with them their own policy changes and different point of views. The delays resulted
as a result of the "learning curve" for new activities and responsibilities; understanding relativre
priorities; taking action on priority issues and as a result of irregular supervision. This disrupted
effective continuity. The policy shift was observed at the procurement level, at the approval
process and more significantly in their attitude for the negotiation of the Water Supply arid
Sewerage Rehabilitation Project (WSSRP), which was to complement the WSIS loan. The loan
effectiveness of WSSRP was anticipated to have occurred by the end of the first year of the ICA
contract.
10.    Changes in the Conditionalities of the World Bank
The World Bank imposed changes to the original list of conditionalities at least on three different
occasions i.e. on June 12, 1997, November 7, 1997 and February 26, 1998. In fact, the goal pcst
kept shifting every time GORTT made determined efforts to comply with the Bank's requests. The
legal covenants for WASA of the WSIS project, especially financial, were de facto replaced by the
IOA. Indeed, the IOA and privatization was a World Bank conditionality. Inspite of this, the Banik
kept insisting on meeting the original covenants under the WSIS loan which was signed before the
IOA contract.
11.    Impact of Frequent Policy Shifts of the World Bank
There has been major policy shifts during the implementation of the WSIS project. This had
serious adverse impact on the project and negative financial implication for GORTT and WASA.
As indicated, WSSRP loan effectiveness should have occurred by April 1997 i.e. by the end of the
first year of the IOA contract. Six missions were mounted by the World Bank without progress.
The WSSRP project underwent at least two major revisions to the scope of work at the request of
the World Bank.
Furthermore, expenditure on the WSSRP project commenced in 1997 based on the World Bank's
prior commitment of July 25, 1996 to retroactively finance expenditure on the project until
the loan was signed and effective. On the basis of this commitment, GORTT agreed to provide
the "bridging finance" and counterpart funding to facilitate commencement of the project in 19'7.
Five contracts were awarded by WASA on the basis of this commitment. Total contractial
obligations for 1997 and 1998 amounted to US$13.6 million.
By letter dated February 19, 1998, the World Bank reneged on this commitment and indicat?d
that it will not cover 1997 expenditure and that the1998 retroactive finance will be limited to
US$6.5 million.
GORTT had been forced to fund US$13.6 as a result of mid-stream change in the World Bank's
policy and non-decision on the WSSRP loan. In fact, it is clear that the Bank's commitment to
WSSRP loan was not only wavering but its policy was changing almost overnight.
Another area of mid-stream policy shift was the project Financial Statements. Given the problerns
identified by the PlU's of WASA and the Ministry of Works and Transport, it was agreed by tie
World Bank consultant, Mr. Maurice Mould and the Task Manager, Mr. Carlo Rietveld in August
1997 that the short form report would be acceptable to the Bank instead of the long form financial
report format. However, Mr. Anil Kapur, by letter dated May 6, 1999, requested the adoption of tie
long form format which resulted in delays in the submission of audit reports for 1998.
12.    Impact of Non-Materialization of WSSRP Loan
The non-conclusion of WSSRP loan significantly delayed the implementation of WASA's
rehabilitation projects thereby adversely impacting on the service improvement, especially to pc.or
and rural customers. Additionally, it had negative impact on the project outcome as well as for tie
plans for future operation. In fact, this has been one of the key shortfalls of the Project.



43
Under the IOA contract, the timely availability of World Bank funds for the proposed capital
expenditure programme was critical for meeting the performance targets set in the contract. It
became difficult to hold the IOA operator to completely conform to the performance targets.
Extensive resources were engaged to prepare an Appraisal Document for negotiation of the loan.
The preparation had reached the stage of Invitation for Bids and Evaluation. The suppliers and
contractors had to be subsequently informed of the cancellation.
The non-conclusion of the loan agreement had also cost GORTT approximately TT$8.4 million in
1997 on staffing the Project Management Unit and the Construction Management Unit. The World
Bank had insisted on the mobilization of these Units in anticipation of the works to be undertaken
under the WSSRP. The GORTT had also incurred similar costs on these Units for 1998.
The GORTT strongly proposes that the responsibility for this unnecessary expenditure, amounting
to US$2.7 million, incurred on the directive of the Bank rest squarely with the Bank and that
appropriate action be taken to resolve and meet this expenditure by the Bank
Halcrow Management Services Limited, in its Report on the performance of WASA under the IOA Mid-Term Review
had this to say (Final Report, June 1998, pages 2 and 3);
"WASA has achieved a valuable increase in treated water production and reduction in plant
breakdowns. Much of the benefit has been lost resulting from the lack of the IBRD loan and thus the
delays in system rehabilitation. This loan should have been more closely locked into the IOA
contract delivery. The World Bank's apparent objective of using the leverage of a vital loan to
achieve changes within WASA, while in some ways understandable, has severely constrained
continuity of supply improvement under the IOA. Probably those that have been greatest affected
by this are the poorer customers who cannot afford water tanks. Ideology has overridden
pragmatism to the point of preventing achievements of the purpose."
PROJECT's SUSTAINABILITY
Inspite of constraints, a number of measures implemented and/or to be implemented has set the stage for the
projects' sustainability. With respect to the water sector, WASA has progressed from revenue covering only 62% of
operating expenses, to a situation where, for the first time, WASA declared a small operating surplus (TT$11.6
million). Other specific measures to strengthen WASA's financial viability include:
*  the implementation of industrial tariff increase from $3.50 to $7.50 cu. m3;
*  the mechanisms for the timely payments of WASA bills by the Ministries and other Government Agencies
and the liquidation of all outstanding arrears;
*  the rationalization and reduction of labour from 3,508 to 2,394 resulting in labour cost savings by about
TT$70 million per annum; and
*  the additional potential revenue from the implementation of the Customer Cadastre has been estimated at
$35 million and the improvement in service delivery in areas in Central and South Trinidad could mean
additional revenue of $38 million.
The Government's resolve to strengthen private sector participation in the water sector remains unchallenged and is
consistent with its programme of private participation in electricity, telecommunications, postal services and other
sectors.
The implementation of the findings of the Flood Control and Water Resources Management Strategy Studies will
ensure proper management and sustainability of the water resources of the country.
PLANS FOR THE FUTURE OPERATIONS
The overall and integrated plan of action for water service improvement has been developed and broken down as
follows:
*  South Water Project
*  North Water Project
*  Tobago Water Project
*  Industrial Water/Desalination
*  Wastewater Adoption of Private Plants



44
* Water Resources Management Strategy
* Ground Water Exploration Project
* Customer Cadastre Implementation.
These are being undertaken through a combination of funding arrangements i.e. WASA, GORTT and private fundin 3.
In summary, GORTT has meticulously put in place numerous measures in order to achieve the developmEnt
objectives of good governance of the water and wastewater sectors and the financial viability of WASA.
LESSONS LEARNED
Based on the implementation of the WSIS project, the following experiences were gained:
*  the need to provide adequate project definitions, scope of work and schedules. This involves proper
identification of elements of project and related costs and time perods for all activities such as approvals,
short listing, invitation, evaluation and contract awarding etc.
* the need for timely disbursement of funds and the need for One Monitoring Unit responsible for the Special
Account.
*  the need for clearly defined training plan with specific allocations.
*  the need for timely investment and closely locking of funds with Project delivery.
*  the need for total commitment and cooperation between the management and the Board.
*  the need to minimise uncertainty among local staff and keeping staff informed at all times.
*  the need to avoid and/or limit changes in conditionalities and mid-stream policy shifts as well as changes of
Task Managers of the lending Agency.
*  the need for relaxation of World Bank conditionalities for pre-qualification of works Contractors.
*  the need to appreciate that effective institutional transformation and sector reorientation, especially ir a
sector such as Water and Wastewater, is a challenge, and a slow process inspite of a strong politi,al
support.
*  Under certain circumstances, the Management Contract (MC) may still be the preferred option. However,
an approach to and design of a management contract, for it to work properly and effectively, must take inito
consideration some critical issues. Among these being:
*  very specific and easily monitored financial incentives to meet or exceed agreed targets.
*  equally specific financial penalties in a case of non-compliance. These penalties should be part al,
abrogation of the contract should be based on consistently poor performance and should include a
performance bond.
*  a limited number of key levels of service indicators that are realistic, achievable and capable of rob ist
measurement.
*  frequent and timely transparent review and reporting arrangements.
*  the Contract should be simple and clear and should include only very specific, legally drafted, language.
*  a clear definition of roles and responsibilities of all parties to the Contract.
A:\ICR-REP



45
APPENDIX C: WASA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
WASA Financial Statements
(Millions of TT$)
Statements of Revenues and Expenses
(For fiscal year ending March 31)
1997      1998    1999 (est.)
Revenues                                                     270.1      290.2     357.1
Water rates                                                225.0      242.2      307.3
Sewerage rates                                              22.2       25.1       27.2
Other revenues                                              22.9       22.9       22.6
Expenses                                                     434.8      420.2     345.5
Personnel                                                   191.5     198.2      157.5
Premises                                                    41.8       46.0       40.2
Supplies and services                                       116.6     123.9      102.3
Transport and plant                                         20.0       21.8       16.5
Administration                                               64.9      30.3       29.0
Operating income before depreciation                        -164.7    -130.0        11.6
Depreciation                                                  37.9       40.4      50.4
Financial expenses                                            28.3       39.0      61.4
Exceptional item                                               0.0       75.7       12.8 a/
GORTT related expenses                                        69.8       93.4       51.9 b/
Net surplus (deficit)                                       -300.7    -378.5    -164.9
Accumulated surplus (deficit) brought forward              -4105.5   -4406.2   -4769.0
Prior year adjustment                                          0.0       15.7        0.0
Accumulated surplus (deficit) carried forward              -4406.2   -4769.0   -4933.9
Balance Sheets (as of FY ending March 31)
Assets
Current Assets                                               213.9      249.8     447.8
Cash and Banks                                                19.0       22.1       14.4
Restricted cash                                                                    180.3 c/
Short term deposits                                           42.3       68.7      67.4
Accounts receivable and prepayments (net)                    137.2      135.8      163.9
Inventories                                                   15.4       23.2       21.8
Non-current assets                                           736.6      875.5    1076.3
Long term investments                                         17.8       38.8      43.1
Fixed assets                                                 718.8      830.5    1007.7
Deferred charges                                               0.0        6.2       25.5
Total Assets                                                 950.5    1125.3    1524.1



46
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities                                            598.4      703.6     687.7
Bank overdraft                                                   3.2        0.0        0.0
Accost payable and accruals                                    579.5      687.9     672.0
Short term loans                                                 3.0        3.0        3.0
Loan installment due within one year                            12.7       12.7       12.7
Non-current liabilities                                        480.8      703.6    1160.6
TTWS operator loan                                             179.8      397.9      450.0
VESP (1998) bond                                                 0.0        0.0       89.4
Southern Water Project loan                                      0.0        0.0      317.8
GORTT subordinated loans:
Water sector project funding                                  79.5       96.9      107.1
CDB project funding                                           16.2       16.2       16.4
Other loans                                                  205.3      192.6      179.9
Total Equity                                                  -128.8    -282.0    -324.0
Capital Funds                                                 4163.7    4373.3    4496.3
General reserve                                                113.6      113.6      113.6
Accumulated operating deficit                                -4406.1   -4768.9   -4933.9
Total Liabilities and Equity                                   950.4    1125.2    1524.3
Current ratio (times)                                            0.4        0.4        0.7 d/
Working ratio (%)                                              161%       145%       97% e/
Debt Service Coverage ratio (times)                            -5.82      -3.33       0.19 f/
a/ In 1997 include additional depreciation; in 1998 and 1999, include Voluntary Employee
Separation Package.
b/ Expenses arising on GORTT assumed liabilities.
c/ Funds restricted for the use of the Southern Water Project.
d/ Ratio of current assets to current liabilities.
e/ Ratio of operating expenses (before depreciation and interest) to revenues.
f/ Ratio of gross internal cash generation to debt service. The debt service includes only the
interest as the repayment of principal was not available.



