A/V X7 t- tT 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No P-6357-TT
MEMORANDUM[ AND RECOMNDATION
OF TUE
PRESIDENT OF THE
iNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED WAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQuIVALENT TO US$25.0 MLLION
TO
TUE REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR A
WATER SECTOR INSTIUTIONAL SRENGTHENING PROJECT
JULY 13, 1994
MI CROGRAPH1 CS'
Tbs docment has a resukcteddistribudon ad   Report No: P-   6357 TR
their offkidal dutes. Its coa  not oets    F  Type: MOPE



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
* Currency Unit    =     Trinidad and Tobago DoDar (ITS)
US$ 1.00           =      T1$ 5.98
Tr$ 1.00                 US$ 0.17
Sine Marh 1993, the US has been aowed to float fieely and curent stands at mund USsI.00-US 5.9. (May
i)94). [to be checked]
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARICOM                  Caribbean Commlunity
EMA                      Environment Management Agency
MOWT                     Ministry of Works and Transport
WPU                      Miuistry of Public Utilies
MTFP                     Medium Term Framework Paper
PIU                      Project Implementafion Unit
PMU                      Portfolio Management Unit
PUC                      Public Utlities Commission
SAL                      Structral Adjustment Loan
TIEC                      Trinidad and Tobago Electricity Commission
WASA                      Water and Sewerage Authority
UFW                       Unaccounted for Water
WRA                      Water Resources Agency
FISCAL YEAR
Janualy 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECITOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
Beneficiay:               Ministry of Works and Transport
Ministry of Public Utilities
Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA)
Loan Amount:              US$ 25.0 million
Terms:                    Repayment over 15 years, including five vears of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives:       Strengthen water resources management, support introduction
of private sector management in WASA, and prepare a
drainage and flood control project.
Project Description:      The project would: (i) finance short- and medium-term
technical assistance to the Ministry of Works and Transport
and the Ministry of Public Utilities in strengthening the
institutions involved in management of the countly's watef
resources; (ii) develop a national water resources management
strategy; (iii) provide funding for consultant services and
working capital needed by WASA dunng the transition of its
water supply services operation to private sector management,
and (iv) help prepare a progren of short-term rehabilitation and
maintenance enhancement and a medium-term program of
investment in flood control and drainage ifrtastructure.
Financing Plan:           Government of Trinidad and Tobago  US$ 8.0 million
PHRD Grant (Japan)                    0.1 million
IBRD Loan                            25.0 million
Total                            US$ 33.1 million
Poverty Category:         Not applicable
Environmental Assessment:   Category B
Rate of Return:           NA
Staff Appraisal Report:   NA
Map:                      IBRD 20573R
This Document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of thir   1
offical duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization  J



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTON AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TRIIDAD & TOBAGO
FOR A WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
1.    I subnmit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Republic of Trinidad & Tobago for US$25 million equivalent for a Water
Sector Instituional Strengthening (WSIS) project The Loan would be at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of 15 years including 5 years grace.
L BACKGROUND
2.    The most recent economic report of Trinidad and Tobago, Report No. 10417-TR,
entied 'Trinidad and Tobago: Policy Agenda for Sustained Development" was distributed to
the Executive Directors on June 23, 1992. A detailed country brief on Trinidad and Tobago is
available to the Board. The Govemment also issued its Medium Term Framework Paper
(MTFP) for the recently concluded CGCED meeting. This document was distributed to the
Board for information.
3.    Trinidad and Tobago's econony has been dependent on the export of petroleum and
petroleum products since the early 1960s. As a res'ilt of the fluctuations in world oil prices,
Trinidad and Tobago is making the difficult transition from an oil dependent, public sector
dominated economy, to a more diversified, market-oriented, private sector led one. A Bank
SAL was approved in January, 1990 and was successfu}ly completed in December, 1992. The
SAL initiated a trade reform and focused on increasiwg efficiency in the electricity and water
utlities and on a progressive reduction of the public sector through the divestment of selected
state owned enterprises. A PCR on the SAL has been issued recently.
4.    The present Government, in offlice since January 1992, has accelerated the pace of
reform and has continued to attach great value to macroeconomic stability by pursuing prudent
fiscal and monetaly policies. The overriding policy goal highlighted in the Government
Medium Term Framework Paper, is the restoration of robust, sustainable, employment-
generating growth. The key to achieving this goal is export diversification through private
sector investment.
5.    In light of the Governmenfs policy objectives in the medium-tm  the key objectives
of the World Bank's proposed assistance strategy are to:
a)    promote the rehabilitation of public infrastructure in water, drainage and
flood control, natural resources and environmental management, accompanied



2
by longer tern reforms and institutional strengthening measures to increase
public investment on a sustainable basis beyond its current low level;
b)    help increase the effectiveness of the public sector through a refocussing of
its role, rationalization of its structure and modenization of the public
management system in tandem with a reduction in recurrent expenditures and
an increase in investment;
c)    assist in improving the business environment for private sector development
through an acceleration of the trade reform, privatization, and improvements to
the investment sector incentive and regulatory fiamework; and,
d)   improve human resources t+-ough an education reform loan aimed at
improving the quality and effectiveness of primaiy education, and providing
equal opportunities in school for all children. A key component would focus on
increasing access to early childhood care and education for poor families.
6.    Water Sector Management and Development Issues: Development and
management of water resources in Trinidad and Tobago are govemed by the Water and
Sewerage Act (WASA) of 1965, which created the Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA)
"to provide for the development and control of water supply and sewerage facilities in Trinidad
and Tobago". While WASA has been the main statutoly body responsible for development
and management of water resources, a number of other agencies and local and regional bodies
also have responsibilities that sometimes overlap. Lack of coordination and a comprehensive
vision of the sector, conflicts amongst competing uses, insufficient investment and inadequate
maintenance of existing infrastructure, all have combined to lead to deterioration and disrepair
and have caused serious environmental damage in the upper reaches of the main river courses.
A comprehensive approach to water resource management is therefore seen by the
Govenunent as a high priority task to be carried out in parallel with the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of run-down infrastructure facilities and restructuring of failing institutions. (see
para 13. of the Technical Annex).
7.    The Crisis at WASA: The biggest problems facing the water sector are the state of
disrepair of the water supply and distribution system (see para 24. of the Technical Annex),
and the failure of the present management to improve WASA operations With Unaccounted
for Water (UFW) percentages as high as 50%, and with an antiquated tariff structure and
level that was consistently held below the cost of providing the service (see para 19. of the
Technical Annex), operating revenue is insufficient to meet the continued high cost of
staffing, adequate maintenance and operations of the system. Working capital shortages have
only added to the downward spiral of poor maintenance, inefficient operations, and lower
eamings. In 1992, the Government carried out a preliminary restructuring of WASA in order
to improve operational and financial performance; a local management group was contracted
to manage the WASA operations, but all the needed financial and organizational restructuring
actions were not carried out, although staffing was reduced by about 25%. In the absence of a
comprehensive program for rehabilitation of the utility, the fundamental problems were not
resolved. In 1993, a tariff increase of 35% was approved by the Public Utilities Commission
(PUC). However, WASA has not implemented the changes because its continued inability to



3
provide adequate supplies to over 70% of the population would entail substantial penalties in
the form of rebates. This has only exacerbated the financial problems at WASA. In early
1993, the Government also approached the Bank for assistance and developed a program for
emergency rehabilitation of the WASA operation. Two PPF Advance agreements were signed
in June and September, 1993 to carry out the needed preparation for a proposed loan.
However, continued deterioration of the water operations during the rest of 1993 and early into
1994, and delays in implementing the preparation work due to management weaknesses have
now forced the Government to reorient the basic strategy and policy with regard to WASA.
8.    Reouientation of Government Policy: The Government now recognizes that the
measures introduced in 1992 and 1993 did not address sufficiently the fundamental problem
at WASA. Firstly, even after the substantial reductions carried out in 1992, the utlity
continues to be overmanned, as evidenced by the index of employees per 1000 customers
(which, at 18 is about 2 or 3 times that found in well-run water utilities in the developed and
developing world). Secondly, the culture of public sector employment that prevails is simply
not conducive to efficient provision of services. Thirdly, the utility lacks market and financial
discipline and lacks the incentives to meet customer needs at the lowest cost The
Government has now decided to carry out the bold and sweeping reforms necessary to
rehabilitate WASA and secure better quality water and waste water services at lower cost and
without resort to continued public subsidies. The main thrust of this redirection of Government
policy with respect to WASA is to seek a private sector partner who would take a substantial
equity interest in production, treatment and distribution of water and the provision of sewerage
services. The Government recognizes tat, given the present financial and physical condition
of WASA, the attainment of this goal is likely to be a two-stage process. The first, involves
bringing in an experienced private sector operator under contract to manage WASA's water
and waste water operations; the second phase will be a move to equity partnership once the
basic rehabilitation of WASA has been completed and the legal and regulatory framework
designed and implemented. The Government sees a time frame of 2-3 years to bring about
such a change in the fundamental orientation of the water sector. The Government is
committed to carrying out the needed restructuring actions to ensure a successful transition to
private sector management early in 1995 and to completion of the second stage of the
divestment process by the end of 1997, in accordance with a detailed Inplementation Program
shown as Schedule 1 of the Technical Annex. The Government's policy and strategy in this
respect are set forth in a Policy Letter.
9.    The Proposed Strategy: The Government is now seeking Bank assistance in
implementing a three-phased strategy comprising the following elements:
a)    A Short -Term Stabilization Program to
i)    provide essential technical and material resources to prevent a collapse
of WASA during the next six months of transition to private sector
management,
ii)   prepare and implement a fundamental reorientation to private sector
management of WASA,



4
iii)   prepare and implement an integrated water resources management
strategy;
iv)    design the physical rehabilitation of water supply and waste water
facilities and drainage and flood control structures.
b)    A Rehabilitation Program to deal with the most pressing technical problems
facing WASA, and to start enhanced maintenance of the country's drainage
and flood control infrastructure. The design for tfis program will be completed
and confirmned during the short-term stabilization phase. T'he WASA
component of the prograrn would start as soon as a private sector manager
has been chosen. For drainage and flood control, the program would start as
soon as a program of rehabilitation and enhanced maintenance has been
defi led by MOWT under the short-term phase. The rehabilitation and
enhanced maintenance program would be implemented mainly during 1995.
c)    A Medium-Term Investment Program to execute high priority drainage
and flood control works in Trinidad and Tobago, waste water treatment
facilities, expansion of coverage of sanitawy sewerage, and to develop water
resources to cater to growing industrial and residential needs in the southwest
of Trinidad  The technical preparation of this program, including the needed
environment impact assessments would be carried out under the project.
Implementation of the drainage and flood control components will be carred
out in 1996 and beyond.
10.   Past Bank Involvement in the Water Sector and Lessons from Experience: Under
the SAL the Goverrnment undertook to improve WASANs nnancial self-sufficiency and
management, as well as its administrative and operational efficiency. As of December 31,
1991, the closing date of the SAL, WASA's performance had been mixed (see para 7.), wit,
only partal achievements in terms of reduction of its labor force but with failures in
operational improvements and in implementation of tariff increases. The major lesson that can
be derived from that operation is the need to support quickly policy reform by institutional
strengthening measures for the benefits of the policy reforms to be sustained. This lesson has
also been derived from the long-standing participation of the Bank in the water and sewerage
sector in general. The proposed project attempts to deal with these weaknesses (see para 9.).
11.   Rationale for Bank Involvement: The Bank's involvement in the restructuring and
raionalization of public sector activities stems directly from the adjustment program that was
completed in 1992. The SAL program supported actions to raise public sector efficiency and
to improve resource allocation by trade reform, amongst other structural measures. A number
of elements of the Government's rationalization program are now underway or have already
been successfully im,n:emented, including the privatization of the Telecommunications
services, and the recently completed privatization of the generating arm of the Trinidad and
Tobago Electricity Company. Further changes in public sector enterprises and greater
devolufion of activities to the private sector are not; underway. The rationalization of the water
sector is a major element of the Government strategy and the Bank's role in this process is seen
as critical to a successful outcome. A fiuther rationale for Bank involvement is the potential



S
environmental benefits that the development of a water resources strategy, the implementation
of the expected rehabilitation of WASA's water and waste water operations, and the
enhancement of infrastructure maintenance and development of needed new drainag, and flood
control infastructure would brinLg.
IL THE PROJECT
12.   Project Objectives: The proposed Water Sector Institutional Strengthening Project
(WSIS) would assist in implementing the sriort-term stabilization program oudined in para 9.
(a) above. It would be complemented at a later stage by (i) a water rehabilitation project ( para
9. (b) above), and (ii) a broad-based drainage and flood control project (para 9. (c) above).
13.   Project Description: The main featuresof the proposed WSIS Project are
summaized below and detailed in the Technical Annex:
a)    Reorganization of Water Sector Management (US$ 4.9 million): This
component aims at strengdtening exiting and new institutions and at
developing an integrated approach to "ater resources management and to
strengdhening and complementing enviTonmentlW planning and management
It includes the preparation of a water resoirces management strategy, and
provides support for implementing a new iWgulatory framework within which
water operations can be carried out by publi and private sector operators.
Finally, it provides funding for hydrological Aid hydrometereological
telemetering equipment and Geographical Inf "maion Systems (GIS) needed
to improve data collection and analysis for ixnprvved water resource
management in the country. About 176 person-months of Instituional
Development Technical Assistance (IDTA) would be financed through this
component. The main modes of delivery would be domestic and international
consultant services and trainng, including overseas courses, seminars and
study tours.
b)    Piivate Sector Reorientation of Water Services (US$16.5 million): This
component comprises the studies and institutional support needed to implement
the fundamental and rapid reorganization of the water sector involving early
introduction of a privae operator to provide water supply services. It also
provides for setfing up an Emergency Operational Fund for WASA for
purchasing critical spare parts and operating supplies during the next few
months during the start-up period of the transition to private sector
management. It would provide funds for engineering design and project
preparation for the WASA rehabilitation program that would be implemented
in 1995 once a private sector operator has been appointed under a coitract for
management of WASA. In order to provide flexibility to the Government in the
process of selecting a suitable private sector partner, the component also
provides funds to contract consultant/managers for interim management
arrangements during a transition phase expected to last about six months.
About 424 person-months of Project Preparation and hnplementation Support



6
Technical Assistance would be financed through this component. The main
mode of delivery would be domestic and international consultant services.
c)    Drainage & Flood Control Project Institutional Support and Project
Preparation Assistance (US$ 7.1 million): This component provides for
funding a new Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established under the
Drainage Division of the Ministiy of Works & Transport (MOWT) to
supervise the preparation and impleineatation of the drainage and flood control
development program. It nrovides funding for consultant support and staff
training for the drainage division and the planning division of the MOWT as
well as for the needed computer and other office equipment. Finally, it also
provides funding for the various consultant services needed to prepare the
proposed Drainage and Flood Control Project, and to develop the enhanced
maintenance and priority works p-ogram, which would form an integral part of
t.e second phase of the proposed sector assistance strategy outlined in para. 9.
above. About 765 person-months of consultant services will be funded under
this component, of which about 587 person-months of Project Preparation and
Implementation Support consulting services, and 178 person-months of IDTA
consultnt services and training assistance.
14.   Project Beneficiaries: The pfimaiy beneficiaries of the proposed project will be the
Mlnistiy of Public Utilities in its capacity as the responsible Ministry for overseeing the
restructuring and reorganization of WASA. WASA itself, and the Ministy of Works and
Transport in its capacity as the responsible Ministry for drainage and flood control
infrastructure. In addition, institutional support for the water sector will strengthen the newly
reconstituted Public Utilities Commission and the Portfolio Management Unit within the
Ministry of Public Utilities, as well as the Water Resources Agency (WRA) within WASA that
is expected to continue to function as the agency responsible for data collection and analysis in
the water sector and play an enhanced role in the development and implementation of a water
resources management strategy.
15.   Cost Estimates and Financing Plan: The proposed WSIS project is estimated to
cost US$33.1 million, excluding taxes, but including contingencies and counting the in-kind
office and logistics support to be provided by the project beneficiary agencies The cost
esimate includes the works financed under the PPF Advance. Howevei, the cost estimate
does not include the estimated worling capital support to be provided by the Government to
WASA as part of its commitment to stabilize WASA's financial situation, clear arrears to
trade creditors and provide fimds to meet WASA's debt service obligations and other
operational losses to the extent that WASA's intemally generated funds are insufficient to
cover such obligations (see paras 24. - 26.of the Technical Annex). A PHRD Grant (Japan) is
providing US$0.1 million towards establishment of the Project Inplementation Unit within the
MOWT. The proposed Bank loan would finance 76% of the total estimated cost of the
project The cost estimate and financing plan are shown as Schedule A, with detail in Annex 1
of the Technical Annex. The Government would pass the proceeds of the Loan for the WASA
Emergency Operational Fund, and the Rehabilitation Project Preparation to WASA under a
Subsidiawy Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



7
16,    Procurement and Disbursement: Procurement procedures in Trinidad and Tobago
are compatible with the Bank's gufidelines. The implementing agencies have some limited
experience in carrying out procurement following ICB practices. The Project Implementation
Units will employ suitably qualified procurement experts during the implementation process to
assist and train the local staff involved. These services will be financed as part of the
consultant services under the project. Procurement of all consultant services would follow the
Bank's guidelines. Procurement of chemical supplies and spare parts would follow the Bank's
ICB guidelines. Procurement of specialized telemetering equipment, and essential spares for
the urgent rehabilitation of WASA operations will be on the basis of Limnited International
Bidding as the number of potential suppliers is small. The Bank has reviewed the
procurement packages proposed by WASA in order to expedite the bidding process and permnit
WASA to purchase the needed parts and supplies for the urgent works WASA will use the
Bank's Standard Bidding documents. The Bank has also reviewed the technical specifications
of the main packages representing about 60% of the proposed items to be financed. All
computer hardware and software purchases would be grouped and bid on the basis of Limited
Intemational Bidding among hardware manufacturers with established service and
maintenance facilities in the countTy. Some emergency supplies and office equipment would
be procured on the basis of local and international shopping with at least three quotations to be
obtained by the implementing agencies. Such procurement will be limited to purchases of less
than US$25,000, amounting in the aggregate to less than US$1.0 million. No other
procurement methods will apply. All contracts exceeding US$25,000 for goods will require
prior Bank approval. These will ensure that at least 60% of the contract awards covering 90%
of Bank financing will be subject to prior review by the Bank. All consultant contract awards
will be subject to prior Bank approval. All procurement under ICB and LIB would use the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. The procurement and disbursement schedules are
attached as Schedule B. A Special Account, with an initial deposit of US$1.5 million will be
set up in the Central Bank to facilitate project disbursements. The Government will designate
one of the two agencies, MOWT or the MPU as the coordinating agency for administering the
Special Account. The Govemment will cany out Annual Audits of the Special Account and
furnish the reports to the Bank no later than three montis after close of the financial year. In
order to provide flexibility in implementing the emergency works at WASA, retroactive
financing of up to US$2.5 million equivalent will be permitted for goods procured after June 1,
1994, but prior to loan signature, but not later 12 months following it, in accordance with the
procurement methods indicated above.
17.   Implementation Arrangements: MOWT, as the agency responsible for the
drainage and flood control program, has established a Project Implementation Unit to be
responsible for developing and implementing the proposed drainage and flood control program,
including an enhanced maintenance action plan for early implementation in 1995. The
Ministry of Public Utilities has also established a Project Implementation Unit that will oversee
the implementation of the WASA restructuring efforts and will be responsible for the related
water resource management components. WASA has also organized a Project
Implementation Unit to oversee the project preparation financed under the P/?F, and has now
recruited a suitable professional to assist in procurement matters. Terms of reference for all
consultant services have beer, drawn up and are being finalized for Bank review and approval
to enable procurement in accordance with the Project Implementation Schedules shown as
Annex 3 of the Technical Annex. A training program has been drawn up for the staff of the



8
Water Resources Agency. The MOWT and MPU are also assessing the training needs for the
staff involved in water resource mat -gement and in sub-sector plauning and project
implementation. Training programs for the reconstituted PUC or successor regulatory body
will be drawn up as part of the definition of the new regulatory fiamework and implemented in
accordance with the Implementation Program shown as Schedule I of the Technical Annex..
The proposed Training Program is shown as Schedule 2 of the Technical Annex. The Bank
and Government will cary out annual reviews of project progress.
18.   Actions/Agreements Obtained: The following key agreements were obtained at
negotiations:
a)    The Government will pursue the Implementation Program related to the
reorganization of the water sector and to the private sector orientation of
WASA in accordance with the timetable shown as Schedule i of the Technical
Annex, and shall take or cause to be taken all restructuring actions and
measures needed to ensure a successful transition to private sector
management of WASA's water and waste water operations.
b)    The Subsidiary Agreement for the transfer of the proceeds of the Loan for the
WASA Emergency Operational Fund and for the Project Preparation and
Divestment Technical Assistance shall be on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank; its signature and ratification shall be a condition of disbursement
of the loan amount allocated for the Emergency Operational Fund (Category 1
(b) of the Loan AUlocation shown in Schedule B). Substantial progress made
by the Government in respect of clearing WASA's arrears to its trade creditors
is also a condition of disbursement for the above category.
c)    The Government will prepare and furnish to the Bank a draft Regulatory
Framework for the vater sector not later than June 30, 1995, and thereafter
pursue all needed actions including legislative changes to put such regulatory
framework into effect not later than December 31, 1996.
d)    Not later than Decemb - 31, 1996, the Government will cause WASA to
furnish for Bank review and comment, an action plan for reform of the water
tariff structure and levels in line with the Government's Policy of ensuring
justifiable cost recovery for public utilities services under efficient operating
conditions.
19.   Project Sustainability: The proposed institutional development in the water sector
will ensure project sustainability in several ways. First, the introduction of a private sector
orientation to the provision of water and waste water services will ensure competitive, market-
driven institutions that will not depend on Government budget transfers for their ongoing
operations. Second, the framework of policies, regulations and institufions to be developed by
the focus on water resources management will ensure a greater stakeholder commitment to
sustainable development in the sector. Finally, the expected benefits from improved natural
resources management and from strengthened institutions will enable the development of
sustainable strategies for conserving ecosystems.



9
20.   Benefits: The benefits of the proposed WSIS include the strengthening of the
Government machinery to address water resource management issues in a comprehensive
manner. The benefits of greater efficiency in water supply and waste water treatrQnt services
will accrue to the general population, in terms of better and more reliable services, improved
health and sanitation, and improved environmental quality. The ' - enefits of an enhanced
maintenance program of drainage and flood control and completion of needed infrastructure
will provide for better environmental quality, improved protection from natural disasters,
reduction of potential economic losses and better overall management of fragile eco-stems in
and around the two islands. The long term program addressing waste water treatment and
expanding coverage tc all the population -ill enhance public health and sanitation. The WSIS
will enable the Government to address the institutional weaknesses and implementation
capacity of the beneficiary agencies. The assistance for the ptivatization process will provide
substantial benefits to the economy in terms of greater operational efficiency of water
provision. A furither and financially significant benefit will be the anticipated reduction of
fiscal transfers resulting from the restructuring of WASA and its private sector orientation.
21.    Program Objective Category: The project fills under three main program objective
categories: Public Se .tor management, Private Sector Development and Basic Infrastructure
and Urban Development The project also focuses on natural resources management under the
Environment category.
22.   Environmental Aspects: The project is raZed Category B under the Bank's
Environmental Assessment Operational Guidelines. Through the proposed technical assistance
program and the feasibility, project preparation and engineering design studies, the WSIS
project addresses environmental issues in natural resource management and in public health
and sanitation. The development of a rehabilitation program for WASA will require an
environmental audit of all WASA facilities with proposed mitigatory measures and costs, and
the development of the drainage and flood control prorm will require environmental
assessments of the individual components to be carried out as part o4 the preparation process.
Terms of reference for the needed EA studies have been discussed and agreed with the
implementing agencies. The water resources management strategy will focus on the
environmental aspects of vatershed management and on preservation of coastal wetlands and
other eco-habitais.
23.   Risks and Safeguards: The main risks associated with the project are possible delays
in the process of bringing in a private sector operator to manage WASA and arrest further
deterioration in water services. These delays could be caused by opposition of the worker
unions to change, and by the potential difficulties of attracting a suitable private operator given
WASA's present financial condition. We consider that the Government's commitment to
taking the needed measures to stabilize WASA's financial situation and to foster efficient and
viable operation of a restructured water utility minimize these risks and provide a reasonable
basis for a successful transition to private sector involvement in WASA. Furthermore, we
consider that the risk of potential backsliding is minimal given the Government's recent
aggressive pursuit of major divestment in the other public sector enterprises despite the
foreseeable political opposition and risk. A lesser risk concerns delays in implementation of the
project preparation tasks due to delays in plocurement of the needed consultant services. The
Government is aware of this potential and has agreed that the PIU's will employ speciaList



10
procurement experts to mininmze delays due to lack of understanding of the procurement
process by the implementing agencies. Continued Bank support for the three-phased sector
strategy indicated in para 9. above will be linked to progress achieved in meeting the
Implementation Program targets and the commitments laid out-by the Govemment in its Policy
Letter.
24.   Recommendation: I am satisfied that the proposed loan of US$25 million would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 13, 1994



11                                             SCHEDULE A
TRIN1DAD AND TOBAGO
Water Sector lnstitutional Strengthening Project
ESTMIATED COSTS
L    _Famw..an                                 Tota
A REORGNIZATION OF WATER SECTOR MANAGMENT                                                      1.9        3.0       4.9
R PRIVATE SECTOR REORIKNTATION OF WATER SERVIS                                                 7.7        8.0      160.6
C DRIANAGE & FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT INSTITUONAL SUPPORT AND PROJECT
PREPARATION ASSISrANCE                                                                         3.8        3.S       7.1
Sub-Toal                                                                                      1SA       156.1     28.5
PPP Reflnmaiog                                                                                 0.7       0.8        1.6
Be" coat                                                                                                 16.9      30.0
Physi=calCnllnaoh                                                                              1.4        1.6       3.0
Plo oonilnenoi                                                                                0.0       0.1        0.1
TOTAL CPRJECT COST                                                                            15.5       17.6      3.I
Neae total ay not ad duw to roundIn
PMNANOIN PLAN
. ~~~~~~~    ~~~~  ~~~~    ~~~~~ ~US  MILLIONS SQiJVALENT
.. ~~~~~~~~~~LCL OG  TOTAL TOTAL
IBiD Loan                                                      ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.5  17.5  28.0  75.6
HiJpnGrant                                                                      0.0       0.1       0.1       0.31
oenet fTrnkidad & Tobago                                                       8.0       0.0       6.0       24.1
cdFlnundug                                                                        1656      17.6      33.1     10.
ote!- Total may not add due to onIg__________
ESTIMAATED DSUMRSEAMENT 
E                           _                             INUSSMLUO-
Dlbumements                                                                    12.56        Ii..   2S.O       0A.4
umis-tiv Dbummen 4ts                                                               12.5      22.0      24.6       251
Note. Ineudes rmayenta of PP advae and Deposit Into Special Aceunt In FY 9



12                                  SCHEDULE B
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
Water Sector Institutional Strengthening Project
Procuemen Sedule
Procuemet                          Prcurment bv IBRD Loan                   Non-8ank    Total
CateWry             ICe          LCB                    Other              Fnaneed
Matils & 6Equpment             5.7                                 4.3                 3.1       13.2
(5.71                              (4.31                (0.01    (10.11
Coneutint Semieo                                                 14.2                  4.7      19.0
(14.2)               (0.01    (14.2)
Trabhn                                                             0.7                 0.2        0.9
(0.7)               (0.01     (0.7)
TOTAL               5.7         0.0                    19.3                 8.1       33.1
(5.7)       (0.0)                  (19.3)               (0.0)     25.0
Other iocludes LIB and shopping
Numbers in pamthes  indicate amounts financed by MM Loan
Loan Allocations by Category
Amount Alocated
Dibureemen Categy                  (Us$ Millionse)  % Eible Exndituee Fnned
(1) Goods
a) For Parts A & C of the Project         1.7
100% of Foreign, 100% of Local
(ex-Factory Cost), and 87% of
local for other itoms procured
locany
b) For Part B of the Project              7.8
100% of Foreign, 100% of Local
(ex-Factory Cost), and 87% of
local for other items procured
localy
(2) Consultant Services
a) For Parts A & C of the Project         7.5       100%
b) For Part B of the Project              5.6       100%
(3 Trabng                                   0.5       100%
(4)  Refunding   of  Project
Preparation Advance                        0.4
(5) Unaltocated                             1.5
TOTAL                           25.0



13
SCHEDULE C
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTIOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
A) Time taken to prepare: 3 monihs
b) Prepared by: Govenmment with Bank Assistance
c) First idenfification/ preparation mission: March 1994
d) Appraisal Mission: May 23 - May 26, 1994
e) Negotiations: June 29 - 30, 1994
f) Expected date of credit effectiveness: August, 1994



14
SCHEDULE D
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
A. STATEMfENT OF BANIC LOANS A"D IDA CREDrrS IN TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (as otApr0 30 1994)
Amount in USS mitlion
(tles canoellations)
.....................
Loon or      Fscal                                                                               Undls  Ctlosing
Credtt No.     Year  Borrowr                       Purpose                    8nt          IDA    bursed  Date
...... ........                      .......                                 ...    .............  _
U Loari(s) closed                                                            133.3$
131530-7tE    1990   TRINIDAD AN TODBO              T.A. LU                   4.00                  2.0S J06301/9
L33280-Il    1991   TRINIDAD AND TOBAW            YOUTH TR6IL PROS          20.70                  11.56 06j30/96
U4320-aRt    1992   TRINIDAD A  TOBAOO              BUSINESS EXPANS & IN      27.00                 25.71 06j30/99
TOTAL router Loa  *   3                                                        51.70                 39.35
TOTAL"'                                                        183.06
of which repaid                                              92.29
TOTAL held by Bank & IQA                                       92.77
Amoum sold             22.87
of which repid       22.8?
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                    3935
.-... ….......
* R1ot yet effective
totW J4prond, Repy tsX, and Outt blra lance represent both active end inactive Loans and Credits.
R) indcastes formally revisd Closing Date.
I) indicates SAtSECL Loas arJ Credits.
TW lIet Apprved endBank Repayments are historieal value, Oll others are rarket vatue.
Te Sgnirng, Effective and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Deprtnent off ieal data and are not taken
from the task Budget fIle.



15
SCHEDULE D
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
B. STATEMENT OF IFC IRVSlTMENTS (as of April 30,1994) IN MILUONS USS
OdgiguS C. lomitmUCs s                     Held by  Undhbud
uscal Year                                                                 IFC       IFC      Patici              Held by    Patd    (including)
Comted         Oblr                        TypeoBusiness                  Loan    EIuity    pants        Total     IFC       pants   Paipn
1978 Canig and Co.   Slaugtinagppading&p                               1.15      0.00     -           1.15    -         -           -
1979Ccib ls           ?EG of glas & Glass Poducs                       1.20      0.00     -           L20     -         -          -
1938 DFL              Develope  Fnanc Companies                        0.00      0.47     -           0.47    -         -          -
1989                                                                   0.00      0.00     -           0.00    -         -           -
1992                                                                   0.00      0.13     -           0.13    -         -           -
1986 HMO meMtgg,   Motppganb                                           0.00      0.41     -           0.41    -         -          -
1987 Tuie             NMG fBasic ndus    Ch1nic                      193.19      0.00     -         193.19    -         -          -
TotalGrs commItmens at                                           195.4       1.01    -         196.5S     -         -          -
LesSmccs"uts, tamiaadoa
V_pa)u  ad alu                                                   17832       0.00    -         17832      -         -          -
17.22      1.01    -          18123     -         -          -
TetudUudisbumed Caumlntments                                       00          O     -.          mo0o     -         -          -
aGnu Camu    consist of appoed and signed poject
YM  C ntmwisd co fdisb           and ud



16
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION .......................................................... 17
1. WATER SECTOR  DEVELOPMENT ISSUES ........................................................... 17
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ............................................................ 27
3. ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN ........................................................... 33
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION ...........................................................       34
i. lMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .....                         ....................................................... 34
2.  PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ........                       ................................................... 35
3.  AGREED ACTIONS ........................................................... 35
SCHEDULE 1: KEY PROJECT ACTIVITES AND MONITORING INDICATORS ........ 37
SCHEDULE 2: PROPOSED TRAINNG PROGRAM  ........................................................ 41
ANNEX 1: PROJECT COST TABLE ............................................................          42
ANNEX 2: PROJECT PREPARATION ACTIVlTIES AND DRAFT TERMS OF
REFERENCE ...........................................................                         44
ANNEX 3: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES ................................................. 58
ANNEX 4: WASA FINANCLAL OPTIONS ...........................................................       64



17
A. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Water Sector Development Issues
1.    Population, Service Levels and Public Health: The two islands, Trinidad (4828
km2) and Tobago (300 kn2) are located in the southernmost zone of the Caribbean sea and
share similar topography, vegetation and climate Precipitation averages about 2,000 mm/year
and water resources are plentifil, even dunng the dry season (January to May). The climate is
moderate and the mean annual temperature is about 27°C, with monthly variations in the range
21°C-29°C.
2.    In 1990, Trinidad and Tobago had a total population of some 1.23 million inhabitants,
of which 96% live in Trinidad. Population is growing at a rate of about 1.5% p.a. About 68%
of the population is urban. The national capital is Port-of-Spain, with a population of about
80,000 inhabitants. The largest urban center of the country is conformed by the communities
scattered along the Eastern Main Road (EMRC), with a population of about 300,000
Wiabitants. Other major urban areas in Trinidad are Arima (about 60,000 inhabitants), San
Fernando (about 30,000 inhabitants) and Chaguanas (about 20,000 inhabitants). Tobagos
capital is Scarborough (about 10,000 inhabitants).
3.    Life expectancy is 70 years. Infant mortality stands at 9.5 per 1000 live births,
compared to 30 in Argentina, 21 in Chile and 27 in Uruguay. Water related diseases such as
enteritis and other diarrheal diseases are still widespread and figure among the leading causes
of mortality, which is indicative of low water and sanitation service levels and of intermittent
water supplies. Water related infectious diseases with highest prevalence are gastroenteritis,
skin and eye diseases.
4.    About 92% of the population has currently access to water connections (through
intemal pluming, yard taps or stand pipes). The Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA) (see
para 9. below) also grants licenses to private companies and other Govenmment agencies for
abstraction of surface and ground water. Sewerage systems serve about 30% of the total
population, mostly in urban areas, while the rest of the urban and most of the rural population
depend on septic tanks and pit latrines. The quality of water and sewerage service is
unsatisfactory. About 70% of the population receives water only intermittently.
5.    Water Contamination and Public Health: All rivers and streams flowing through
urban areas in Trinidad are heavily polluted. The pollution sources are large quantities of
untreated or parbally treated domestic and industrial wastewater discharged to natural surface
water courses. The contaminated nvers and streams are used for irrigati3n and in some
instances for recreation. Considering the high fecal coliform levels that have been recorded in
the rivers, the risk of disease transmission is high.
6.    The quality of raw water at the majority of the large and medium scale production
faicilities is, in general, adequate. However, the quality of the raw water diveAted to the Caroni-
Arena treatment plant is a source of concem, since it is pumped to the plant from a
contaminated reach of the Caroni river. The multimedia filtration bed at the Carom plant



18
includes a layer of activated carbon, whose function is removing toxic organic micropollutants.
However, the activated carbon bed in the filters is not being regenerated and is inactive. It is,
therefore, most probable that the treated water contains elevated amounts of toxic organics and
bacteria, over and above the levels permitted by acceptable standards. The proposed project
would include refurbishing of the activated carbon regeneration system and upgrading of the
Caroni-Arena water quality laboratory to monitor the presence of micropollutants. In addition,
the Bank is preparing an institutional project to set up a National Environment Agency in
parallel with this project.
7.    Demand and Supply of Water and Sewerage Services: WASA has presently 95
water sources which include impounding reservoirs, rivers, groundwater wells and springs (82
Trinidad and 13 in Tobago). 70% of total production is from surface water and the rest is of
groundwater origin. The total installed production capacity in Trinidad and Tobago is 810,600
m3/d and the total safe yield is estimated at 771,300 m3/d during the rainy season and 711,100
m3/d during the dry season. Ifrastructure is antiquated and in need of rehabilitation repairs and
replacement. Water losses and unbilled water use are high and estimated at between 40% to
50% of total production. Per capita water production is thus extremely high, reaching a value
of about 650 liters per capita per day in urban areas. The high level of losses, the lack of
domestic water meters and low tariffs unrelated to consumption are apparently the main
reasons for this high per capita production volume.
8.    Total water consumption is expected to decrease from about 670,000 m3/d in 1990 to
about 640,000 m3/d by the year 2005, although the population is expected to increase from
about 1.2 million inhabitants to about 1.6 million over the same period. Average per capita
consumption would thus decrease from 560 to 400 liters per day. This expected decrease in
consumption is based on the assumption that the unaccounted-for water (UFW) would be
reduced from the present level of about 50% to a level of 20%. From the technical and
administrative standpoints it is possible to achieve such a reduction and this reduction level is
one of the objectives of a rehabilitation program, that would be implemented as the second
phase of the proposed sector strategy discussed in para 30. below. However, this projection of
consumption does not consider the effect of installation of domestic water meters and of higher
tariffs on water consumption. Such meters would be installed in the framework of the
proposed rehabilitation referred to above, and would, most probably, further reduce the high
per capita consumption in Trinidad. The above data for supply and demand suggest that, at
least up to the year 2005, supply from the existing water sources exceeds demand, although
localized problems may emerge on peak demand days. Thus, development of major new water
resources which would be needed by 1998 in the absence of a rehabilitation plan, could be
postponed until 2005. If the estimated UFW reduction were only partially achieved, water
shortages may be experienced within the next five years. The proposed Water Resources
Management Strategy (see Annex 2) would provide the framework within which detailed
master planning for future system development would be carried out A water supply master
plan would include: (a) an analysis of various scenarios of projection of water demand-supply
and water balances to determine when would provision of additional water sources would be
required, and (b) altematives for development of new water sources. Funds for carrying out
this study are provided under the proposed project as part of the implementation phase of the
WRM Strategy exercise. Still, the distribution of the available water throughout Trinidad and
Tobago is uneven and there is a resource deficiency in much of the southem rural area of



19
Trindad, and in most of the area of Tobago. Increase of water supply in these areas should be
addressed by WASA immediately.
9.    The existing sewerage system covers limited parts of urban areas in Port of Spain and
adjacent suburbs as well as in Arima and San Femando, and serves about 30% of the total
population of the country Most of the remaining population depends on septic tanks and pit
latrines. WASA owns and operates three relatively large and overloaded sewage treatment
plants serving the above mentioned towns. The Port of Spain treatment plant located at
Beetham is a lagoon plant consisting of four anaerobic ponds in parallel, folowed by two
facultative lagoons in parallel. The Arina and San Fernando plants utilize trickling filters.
During the construction boom in Trinidad in the late 70's and early 80's, about 130 package
wastewater treatnent plants were constructed throughout the island to serve smal to medium-
size housing developments. The majority of these plants were constructed along the East-West
Corridor, in close proximity to each other. This was intended to be a temporaty or short-term
measure until a central sewage project came on stream. The central sewage project has not
been implemented so far, while, on the other hand, most of the package treatnent plants are
now out of operation. As a result, most of the wastewater of these communities is discharged
without treatment into surface water courses which end up draining int the Carom River and
result in water pollution and in public health risks.
10.   Currently, the demand for sewerage services overwhelmingly exceeds the supply.
Development of wastewater collection and treatment systems needs, therefore, to be addressed
as expeditiously as possible. As a consequence of the Government decision to seek the
involvement of a private operator in a process of divestment, it is now expected that the major
investment needs for expansion of the sewerage system in Trinidad and Tobago will be
addrt.sed by the new operator when the final divestment arrangements have been completed.
At the present stage, the primary concern of the Government is to rehabilitate the existing
physical plant and to prepare for an orderly transition to private sector operations.
11.   The above anaysis of demand and supply of water and sewerage services shows that
priority actions are refurbishment and rehabilitation of water supply systems and development
of new sewage collection, treatment and disposal installations as well as expansion of existing
ones.
12.   Past Investment and its Financing: Sector investments in the years 1988-1992
totaled about US$ 23.3 million or about US$ 4.7 million per year. The majority of these
investments (US$ 18.2 million) were directed to expansion of water systems in Trinidad.
Investment in sewerage projects in Trinidad and in water and sewerage projects in Tobago in
the same period totaled US$ 5.1 million. Investments in the wastewater sector were mainly
directed to finance rehabilitation of treatment plants and construction of a new treatment plant
at Scarborough, Tobago. Investments in the period have been insufficient to maintamn and
expand the system. Extension of the distribution system has been made without following a
coherent long term expansion plan and house conmections have often been made without due
regard to operational requirements. The last significant investment in the sector took place
more than ten years ago, when the Caroni-Arena project was executed. Constuction ofthe
Caroni-Arima dam, treatnent facilities with a capacity of 272,000 m3/day at Caroni,



20
transmission pipelines, booster pump stations and storage reservoirs. All past investtnents
have been financed by direct Govenmment transfers.
13.   The Institutional Framework: Development and management of water resources in
Trinidad and Tobago is governed by the provisions of the Water and Sewerage Act (WASA)
of 1965. This superseded previous legislation concerning water works and water conservation
dating back to 1944, and established the Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA). The
Waterworks and Water Conservation Act (1944) had also established the Drainage
Division in the Ministry of Works and Transport and given it the responsibility for construction
of waterworks for the purposes of "(i) conveying, measuring, regulating or disposing water, (ii)
for irrigation, drainage and reclamation, (iii) for the protection of lands against water, and (iv)
the widening, deepening, straightening, improving, diversion. stopping up or joining of
watercourses. The WASA Act left the jurisdiction over drainage and irrigation structure s and
flood control facilities to the Drainage Division, and only transferred the responsibility for
management and control of water resources and the purveying of water, the development of
sanitary sewerage and waste water treatment facilities to the newly created WASA.
14.   The WASA Act was intended "to provide for the development and control of water
supply and sewerage facilities in Trinidad and Tobago and matters of sanitation incidental
thereto; the promotion of the conservation and proper use of water resources; and for the
establishment of an Authority to administer the several purposes aforesaid and matters
connected therewith." The Authority was made responsible for maintaining and developing
the waterworks and other property transferred to it from previous statutory bodies and
Government agencies. The Authority was also provided the powers to authorize "an; r arson
to supply water to any other person" as a duly incorporated "water purveyor", leaving open
the possibility that such matters could be contracted out to third parties by the Authority. The
WASA Act was and remains a fairly comprehensive piece of legislation that provides for
potential private sector participation in the delivery of water services and includes powers for
environmental protection and regulation of public health and sanitation. In this latter function,
WASA shares responsibility jointly and severally with local authorities for administration of
provisions of the Public Health Ordinance, in relation to sewerage facilities and to fittings in
buildings.
15.   Other public bodies that have some measure of statutory responsibility in the water
sector include, Regional Corporations established under the Municipal Corporation Act (
1990), the Ministry of Health, under the Public Health Ordinance and Litter Act (1981),
and the Town and Country Planning Division, under the Town and Country Planning
Division Act (1960). The sometime overlapping responsibilities and jurisdictions have not
been conducive to efficient management of water resources in Trinidad and Tobago. Lack of a
comprehensive vision of the sector, the issues and conflicts amongst competing uses,
insufficient investment and inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure, ai; have
combined to produce the current state of deterioration and disrepair and have caused serious
environmental damage in the upper reaches of the main river courses, with denuding af forest
cover, mismanagement of watersheds, and erosion of hillsides around the urban perimeter of
Port of Spain and other towns on both islands. A comprehensive apnroach to water resource
management is therefore seen by the Government as a high priority task to be carried out in



21
parallel with the rehabilitation and reconstruction of run-down infrastructure facilities and
restructuring of failing institutions.
16.   At the same time, lack of adequate maintenance practices and long-standing backlog of
routine maintenance }.ave aggravated the problems of drainage and flood control in urban and
rural areas. Flood control structures in river estuaries have also been neglected and now cause
salt water intrusion mto agricultural lands. Uncontrolled housing developments and illegal
squatting in the urban perimeter of Port of Spain has also made the downtown areas prone to
severe flooding due to excess runoffs from the upper reaches of major water courses traversing
the urban area Compounding the drainage problems is the lack of waste water treatment
whereby, raw sewerage is often mixed with storm water drainage and poses serious health
hazards throughout the country. While water coverage is quite extensive at over 90% of the
population, sanitary sewerage is only available to less than 35% of the population.
17.   Regulatory finctions in the sector are scattered among several agencies. Water and
sewerage tariffs are approved by the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) after WASA's filing
for a review of its tariffs and after PUC has held public hearings. the public is fairly well
represented in the hearings, particularly through organizations representing private sector
interests and customer organizations. Despite the PUC preoccupation with defending
consumers interests by requesting WASA to improve its performance, PUC efforts have in the
past not yielded significant results. This lack of effectiveness on the part of PUC can be
attributed to a large extent to the conflicting social, political and technical interests with which
the Governments has saddled WASA. As the Government has now taken a firn decision to
seek the active involvement of the private sector in the provision of public utilities services,
including water and waste water treatment, it has decided to undertake a paradigm shift in the
regulatory framework affecting all the utilities sectors. The policy letter presented by the
Government in support of this project, clearly indicates the Government commitment to make
the needed changes in the regulatory mechanisms in light of the basic policy shift to
involvement of the private sector. As a first step, the Government has recently disbanded the
PUC and has engaged the services of international consultants to help define the new
regulatory framework. Once these recommendations are made, the Government plans to move
expeditiously to reconstitute the PUC as a more professionally staffed institution which will
focus its attention on ensuring greater transparency in the regulatory process, on ensuring a
regulatory structure that complements the Govenmment's strategy towards the utilities sectors,
i.e. greater competition, larger role for the private sector, and elimination of Government
transfers and subsidies. The basic regulatory policy is articulated by the Government in its
policy letter. This calls for ensuring a balancing of the interests of the service providers to
obtain cost recovery and attain ajustifiable return on investment, against the interests of the
service demanders to obtain efficient services at a quality and standards of accepted
international practice. Other regulatory functions with respect to enforcement of regulations
relating to the use of water and to the discharge of wastes are performed by the WRA, the
Ministry of Health, the Town & Country Plar.aing board, and Municipal Corporations. These
regulatory aspects of regulations and standards will be dealt with by the proposed WRM
Strategy exercise. The project will assist the Government in setting up a new regulatory
structure for the water sector. Assistance is also being provided for the professional
development of the PUC or its successor body.



22
18.   WASA, Organization and Performance: WASA is managed by a Board composed
of between five and nine Comnmissioners appointed for no more than five-vear periods by the
Minister of Public Utilities. The Board, with the Minister's approval, entrusts daily
management to a Managing Director. WASA is supervised by three Government entities; the
Ministry of Public Utilities (MPU) for organizational issues and general policies; the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) for budget approval; and the former Public Utilities
Commission (PUC) for tariff revisions. This institutional framework has led to financial and
operational conflicts which, combined with an internal culture not oriented towards
perfonnance, led to excess staffing in response to political pressure to reduce unemploymnent
during the early 1980's following the collapse of oil prices in 1982. WASA became a virtual
employment agency. Poor and inefficient management in tum led to a crisis in the provision of
water supply services and near bankruptcy. Alanned at the rapidly deteriorating situation, the
Govemment finally replaced the existing management at WASA in September 1992, and
retained a group of local managers/consultants from the private sector to manage WASA
operations.
19.   WASA: Taiff Stnmcture and Level: Water and sewerage tariffs are unified
throughout the countuy. WASA's tariff structure for water and sewerage charges is based on 14
different classes of customers, with different charges set for each customer class. rhis
complex structure is the reflection of different methods of supply (stand pipes, yard taps, and
direct connections) and a mixture of metered and unmetered supplies. The majority of
consumers lack metering. Where supply is unmetered, tariffs are calculated based on the
Annual Taxable Value (ATV), which is the annual rental equivalent value of the property. In
many cases this valuation is out of date and, in any event, does not reflect the actual water
consumed. Sewerage charges are assessed regardless of whether the property is connected or
not as long as there is a sewer available within a radius of 45 meters, except where water
supply is by sturd pipe or yard tap. WASA!s tariff structure is unnecessarily complex and does
not treat different classes of consumers equitably. It, therefore, needs redesign. The level of
tariffs remained essentially unchanged since 1937 unfil the PUC approved a more than sixfold
increase in two stages (1986 and 1987). This increase was still insufficient, however, to cover
operating costs and maitenance. Consequently, as part of the rationalization efforts under the
adjustment program, in August 1992, WASA sought and obtained a 20% tariff increase for all
non-residential and metered residential customers. This was followed by an approval in mid-
1993 of a further increase of an average of 35% on all classes of customers. However, this
latter increase has not yet been implemented by WASA, as the PUC approval included
penalties for service deficiencies, that, under WASA's present operational problems would
have meant a greater loss to WASA's revenue account than the gains to be made from the
application of the higher rates. Under the project, the Govenmment is committed to
implementing this increase during 1995 (see paras 25. and 26.below) as part of the financial
restructuring program for WASA.
20.    WASA had until recently the policy of not metering consumption. Over the last few
years, it has been instling meters for large and industrial and commercial consumers. Under
the forthcoming rehabilitation project, WASA intends to install macro meters to assist in its
program for reducing UFW and to initiate a program of micro metering at consumnption points.
Billing is computerized and the programs are being improved. Billing is done monthy for
industrial and commercial customers and quarterly for domestic customers. Collection takes



23
place at eight WASA outlets and the offices of WASA has a very inefficient commercial system
(billing and collection) a very high level of accounts receivable equivalent to about t I months
of billing, compared to 2-3 months in well run water companies in Latin America, coupled
with an outdated cadaster system and the presence of a high number of illegal connections
(estimated at 40,000).
21.   The Bank has estimated the degree of affordability of water and sewerage services
based on currently available statistics. Despite data, and therefore methodological, constraints
the estimated results are considered to be adequately reliable and robust. The estimated results
indicate that, with current tariff levels, the expenses for water and sewerage services represent
less than 5% of average monthly household expenses (which is the rule of thumb suggested by
WHO as the upper limit) for all consumer categories. For the lowest income group (monthly
household income of under TT$500 with 21.4% of total number of households), water and
sewerage represent between 0.76% and 3.74% of average monthly expenditures. For higher
income groups this percentage is lower. There appears to be, therefore, room for further tariff
increases.
22.    At no time has WASA adequately maintained its installations. As a result, the physical
components of the water supply installations have continually deteriorated, part of them are on
the verge of collapse, and UFW is unacceptably high resulting in poor utilization of existing
resources and unreliable service. Due to operational problems, some 70% of the customers in
Trinidad and virtually all customers in Tobago receive water only intermittently. The current
maintenance problems are due to inadequate budgets, lack of planned maintenance programs,
inadequate stocks of spare parts, low productivity, quality lapses, poor morale and poor
motivation.
23.   WASA: SAL Actions: Under the 1989 SAL, the Government agreed to cany out an
action plan for WASA to improve its operational and administrative efficiency and help attain
financial self-sufficiency. The Government did take decisive actions. It replaced the Board and
the top management of WASA with private local consultants hired for periods of up to two
years, starting September 1992. In addition, it reduced WASA's labor force by about 1,500
initiated a broad financial restructuring plan; implemented, in August 1992, a 20% tariff
increase for all non-residential and metered residential customers (followed-up with the
approval of a temporary increase of about 35% in June 1993 which may be left as a
permanent increase); and implemented in May 1993 a voluntary labor reduction program
affecting 970 additional employees at an estimated cost of some TT$ 95 million (US$18
million) to the Government, with estimated annual savings of about TT$30-40 million (US$6-8
million) to WASA.
24.   WASA: Financial Situation: The actions undertaken in 1992 under the SAL
agreements were only partially successful. WASA's inability to generate additional revenues,
mainly as a direct result of the inadequate tariff structure and level (see para 19. above),
combined with poor commercial pracfice, and relatively high operating expenses, particularly
personnel formed a vicious cycle of illiquidity resulting in a breakdv.ci of routine
maintenance, further compounding the deterioration of physical piant. Despite the substantial
reductions in operating costs achieved as a result of downsizing of persomnel, over the last five



24
years (1989-93), operating revenue covered less than 60% of working expenses, forcing the
Government to cover the deficit with continuing budget transfers on both the current and
capital accounts. As of end-1992, accumulated Government transfers to WASA ( in the form
of subsidies, grants and term loans) totaled TT$3.2 billion (US$800 million). The pricing and
subsidization policies of the 1980's combined with a high level of operating inefficiency led to
WASA's decapitalization: as of end 1992, WASA's capital of TT$550 million (US$130
million) was equivalent to less than 55% of its end -1988 capital of TT$1.0 billion (US$260
million). The subsidies received by WASA were insufficient to cover all its needs and resulted
in a serious cash shortfall. The current ratio dropped from a poor 0.72 in 1988 to a disastrous
0.03 at the beginning of 1992, and continued to remain at that level throughout 1992 and into
1993. Arrears to trade creditors continued to mount, and at the end of 1993, amounted to over
TT$70 million (US$12 million equivalent). WASA has no longer been able to obtain trade
credits, forcing a firlher squeeze on its working capital and raising significantly the cost of
operations. This lack of liquidity, coupled with increasing inability to meet payments to
suppliers and to collect customer accounts receivable did not permit the utility to maintain its
plant nor to undertake any significant investments.
25. In 1992, WASA prepared a financial restructuring plan that called for a clearing of all
arrears to trade creditors, other Government entities, and domestic and international banks.
The plan also called for a write-off of the accumulated losses and a reorganization of the capital
structure. This plan has not been implemented, despite some de facto arrangements by the
Government to keep WASA in operation. The Govenmment recognizes now that as a prelude
to the entry of a private sector operator, a financial restructuring of WASA would be
necessary. The Government is awaiting the recommendations of the consultant retained for the
divestment process and is committed to carry out the measures required to ensure that the first
phase of the divestment process will be successful. As WASA is technically insolvent, the
Govemment has agreed to ensure that the proceeds of the Bank Loan for WASA's worldng
capital will be insulated from potential creditor action; to tlis end, the Government has agreed
a)   that the Subsidiary Agreement for the pass through of the proceeds of the
Bank loan for WASA's working capital needs will be structured in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank that will ensure that the good financed out of the
proceeds will be held for WASA's account in the warehouses of a suitable
Govemment corporation and made available to WASA as required for the
emergency rehabilitation works.
b)   that a program for clearing of arrears to trade creditors will be initiated
immediately in the following manner:
i)    The Government will appoint WASA's auditors under special terms of
reference to carry out an assessment of the nature and amount of the
various claims of trade creditors, as at June 30, 1994. This process is
expected to take about two months to complete.
ii)    At the same time, the Government will convene the major trade
creditors representing approximately 80% of the estimated outstanding
liabilities as at end December 1993, in order to discuss the bases for
the eventual settlement of their documented claims against WASA .
Through this process, the Government will layout to the potential



25
claimants a reasonable proposal for the orderly liquidation of all those
existing liabilities to them, and thereby, aim to forestaUl initiation of
potential legal actions in respect of their claims against WASA.
26.   Financial Prospects: In order to evaluate the potential for improvement of WASA
finances under the proposed divestment process and to understand the restructuring needs of
WASA, the Bank and the Government have reviewed alternative financial scenarios for
WASA (see Annex 4). A set of financial target ratios has been derived from the detailed
analysis and is shown as part of the set of Monitoring Indicators in Schedule 1. The main
points emerging from the analysis are that, WASA's operating expenses need to be
restructured and reduced to a target worldng ratio of 75 by the year 1997 in order to
successfully complete the divestment process. In the first stage itself, the working ratio (i.e. the
ratio of working expenses prior to depreciation and interest charges to operating revenues)
needs to be brought to below 100 in 1995, in order to ensure the successfil introduction of a
private sector operator under contract to manage the WASA operations. The reduction of the
working ratio from its estimated 1994 level of 154 to below 100 in 1995, will involve a number
of actions to increase revenues, reduce UFW, and restructure the organizaton. The analysis
also demonstrates that tariffs will need to be revised, at least in line with the approved increase
of 35% on the average in order to meet the target criteria of the working ratio and the debt
service coverage. At the same time,. improvements in billing and collections will be needed to
obtain the desired results. Tariff structure changes will be required once the metering program
that WASA has begun, belatedly in 1994, is completed in 1995. The Govenmment has agreed
that once the private sector operator is selected to manage the WASA operations from early
1995, a tariff revision study wil be prepared and submitted for Bank review not later that
December 31, 1996, as part of the efforts needed to prepare for the longer-term divestment
strategy. In the meantime, the financial analysis shows that the implementation of the approved
tariff increases even on the present inadequate structure will produce substantial improvements
in WASA's financial situation and will reduce the financial burden for the Government
budget The Govermnent has agreed that the already approved tariff increase will be
implemented in line with the progress of the emergency actions to repair leaks and to bring
about greater reliability in the delivery of water (see the monitoring indicators Schedule 1).
The financial analysis shows that a transition to profitable operations is feasible provided the
operational improvements are carried out and operating costs are reduced through suitable
organizational restructuring. With gradual implementation of the approved tariff increases
during 1995, and the improvement in billing and colections, it is possible to ensure adequate
cash flow from operations to cover, all operating expenses, meet the present and future debt
service obligations and make a positive contribution to future investment requirements.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that should WASA's cash generation prove to be
inadequate, the Government would provide sufficient flmding to cover any shortfalls in
WASA revenues during the divestment period and the transition to the long-term arrangements
for ownership and management of the WASA operations, and to ensure that the target working
ratio and the debt service coverage ratio are met.
27.   WASA: Rehabilitation and Divestment Strategy: In early 1993, the Government
approached the Bank for assistance and developed a program for emergency rehabilitation of
the WASA operation. A PPF Advance agreement was signed in September, 1993 to carry out



26
the needed preparation for a proposed loan. However, WASA's continued deterioration has
forced management attention on resolving immediate problems to the detriment of preparation
of the proposed Rehabilitation Program, and inefficient Government procedures for contracting
of consultant services have added to the delays of getting started on the preparation tasks. In
the meantime, WASA's problems have worsened. The management group hired in September
1992, proved ineffective and was unable to take concrete action, in part because of the
fundamental structural difficulties of operating as a Statutory Authority under the tutelage of a
Ministry, and subject to Government procedures and bureaucracy. In a fiulrther attempt to stem
the situation, the Government appoitlted a Task Force to come up with an urgent action
program to meet the crisis at WASA. Early this year, the Task Force submitted its report,
which recommended among others, that the operating arm of WASA, the Authority should be
effectively separated and the day-to-day operations of meeting the country's water supply
needs and its sanitary sewerage services should be entrusted to a private sector operator with
intemational experience in water and waste water services. The Task Force report also
outlined possible range of options for introduction of private sector participation in the water
sector and suggested a course of action for the Government. The Government has now turned
to the Bank to help move rapidly to resolve the crisis at WASA and to quickly take steps to
introduce an experienced private sector operator to handle the management of the water supply
and waste water operations while it prepares the way for divestment of a substantial part of the
public sector interest in the provision of such services. The Government's longer-term
divestmtent strategy is to ensure that a private sector operator is brought in as an equity partner
with a substantial stake in the provision of water and waste water services and to set up the
regulatory framework for the efficient regulation of a diversified water industry. This strategy
would be in line with the Governnent's program of separating a number of public services
from public sector management and the increasing use of the private sector in providing such
services in a well-defined regulatory framework. The Bank is already assisting with the search
for a suitable private operator. As of May 6, 1994, an international consultant group was
contracted by the Government with financing from the PPF. The consultants are preparing the
bidding documents for the selection process of an experienced international operator to manage
the water and waste water services of WASA. The target is to select such an operator to start
no later than January 1, 1995.
28.   Drainage & Flood Control Problems: There has been a consistent under-investment
in drainage and flood control infrastructure on the major water courses in Trinidad and Tobago.
Maintenance of existing channels has been neglected and under-funded over the past two
decades, resulting in serious maintenance backlog and giving rise to need for major
rehabilitation works. In the past decade, annual maintenance expenditures have averaged less
than Tr$45 million (US$8 million), or about US$6.5/capita Of the total amount of budgeted
maintenance expenditures, over 80% covered salary and wage payments to the MOWT labor
force, and the remainder was spent on materials and equipment maintenance. Capital
spending averaged TT$2.5 million (US$0.45 million), and was far below what the MOWT
estimates is the minimum needed to address the flooding and drainage problems in the major
water courses and river channels. The Trinidad & Tobago budget appropriation system
effectively authorizes release of funds more than six months after start of the fiscal year, when
the rainy season is in full swing. Very little progress is therefore made towards the budgeted
tasks. In recent years, continued deterioration of existing infrastructure has resulted in the



27
MOWT spending the few dry months of the year carying out emergency repairs instead of the
routine maintenance tasks, thereby leading to furlher backdog and deterioration.
2. Project Objectives and Description
29.   Reorientation of Government Policy: The Govenunent fully recognizes dat the
measures introduced in 1992 and 1993 (paras 23. and 24. above) failed to address the
fundamental problem at WASA; the utility continues to be overmanned, as evidenced by the
index of employees per 1000 customers (which at 18 is nearly 6 times that found in well-rum
water utilities in the developed and developing world). Secondly, the culture of public sector
employment that prevails is simply not conducive to efficient provision of services. Thirdly, the
utlity lacks market and financial discipline and lacks the incentives to meet customer needs at
the lowest cost The Government has indicated that it is willing to take the bold and sweeping
reforms necessary to rehabilitate WASA and secure better quality water and waste water
services at lower cost and without resort to continued Govenunent subsidies. The main thrust
of this redirection of Government policy with respect to WASA is to seek a private sector
partner who would take a substantial equity interest in production, treatment and distribution of
water and the provision of sewerage services. The Government recognizes that, given the
present financial and physical condition of WASA, the attainment of this goal is likely to be a
two-stage process. The Government expects that once the urgent rehabilitation of the water
operations is achieved, time will be ripe for a deepening of the privatization thrust and has
agreed to prepare the legal and regulatory framework to bring about such a change within a
reasonable time frame of 2-3 years. The Government's policy and strategy in this respect are
set forth in the Policy Letter that the Government has sent to the Bank in support of this Loan.
A matrix of key project activities is shown as Schedule 1.
30.   The Proposed Strategy: In response to the deepening crisis at WASA, and the
general deterioration of drainage and flood control infrastructure, the Government is proposing
to implement a three phased strategy comprising the following elements:
a)    A Short -Term Stabilization Program to address the immediate issues of:
i)    providing essential technical and material resources to prevent a
collapse of WASA during the next six months of transition to private
sector management;
ii)   preparing for a fundamental private sector reorientation of WASA;
iii)   preparing an integrated water resources management strategy; and,
iv)   designing the physical rehabilitation of water supply and waster
facilities and drainage and flood control structures.
b)    A Rehabilitation Program to deal with the most pressing technical problems
facing WASA, and to start enhanced maintenance of the country's dramiage
and flood control infrastructure. The design for this program will be completed
and confirmed durng the short-term stabilization phase. The WASA



28
component of the programn would start as soon as a private sector manager
has been chosen. For drainage and flood control, the program would start as
soon as an enhanced program of maintenance has been defined by MOWT
under the short-term phase. The rehabilitation progran would be implemented
during 1995.
c)    A Medium-Term Investment Program to execute high priority drainage
and flood control works in Trinidad and Tobago, waste water treatment
facilities, expansion of coverage of sanitary sewerage, and to develop water
resources to cater to growing industrial and residential needs in the southwest
of Trinidad. The technical preparation of this programn including the needed
environment impact assessments would be carried out during the short-term
stabilization phase and funded under the project.
31.   Main Features: The main features of the proposed Water Sector institutional
Strengthening (WSIS) Project are:
a)    Reorganization of Water Sector Management: This component includes the
following:
i)    Strengthening of the newly reconstituted Public Utilities
Commission or a new regulatory body in developing its capabilities
to deal with the changing institutional framework in the public utility
sector with the introduction of the private sector in all areas of
activity. The project would enable the new PUC to obtain consultant
and expert assistance to define and cany out its mission and to train
staff in their new responsibilities. This part of the project would
complement ongoing work that has been undertaken by the
Government with the aid of intemational consultants to define the
regulatory framework in other utility sub-sectors, and to define the
framework of competition polices applicable to a number of public
sector activities that are now being spun off to the private sector. The
role of the PUC is being examined by the Govenunent and legislative
changes are being reviewed. The project will support the manpower
development needs of the PUC or its successor body once the
organizational changes are implemented.
ii)    Strengthening the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the
Ministry of Public Utilities to enable it to supervise and coordinate
the implementation of the WASA divestment process and the water
sector reorganization process, including the development and
implementation of the Water Resources Management Strategy. This
component would also provide an allocation of funds to purchase
standard workstations to support its program of activities.
uii)   Water Resources Management Strategy Development: This
process will enable the Government to define a strategy for the



29
development of the water sector and provide the basic framework
within which various development programs in water and sewerage
development, in drainage and flood control and in watershed
management will be pursued in the coming years. The study process
will provide the integrating framework for actions in the different
aspects of water resources management. It wiaa provide the linkage
between national water allocation and the conservation of ecosystems,
and will strengthen environmental planning and management in the
broadest sense. The approach taken will be one of building a
sustainable development process and strengthening the institutions
involved both through their active participation in the strategic planning
exercise and through training and seminar/workshop activities.(see
Annex 2 for Terms of Reference for this activity). This component
would also provide funds to enable the Water Resources Agency
within WASA to purchase data collection platforms that would enable
the telemetering of hydrologic information for more efficient
management of the hydrological network. The equipment would
include data collection platforms, telemetering equipment,
Geographical Information systems (GIS), computer hardware and
software and related peripherals. The MPU-PIU will oversee the
implementation of this component
b)    Private Sector Reorientation of Water Services: This component comprises
the studies and institutional support needed to implement a fundamnental and
rapid reorganization of the water sector involving early introduction of a private
operator to provide water supply services. Two PPF Advances were made to
WASA in 1993 in order to prepare the proposed Rehabilitation project The
PPF Advances would be refinanced under the WSIS loan and the elements
financed under the PPFs would be incorporated in the WSIS operation. The
component includes the following:
i)    Strategic Plan and Advisory Services for Private Sector
Participation:This work includes technical assistance and consultant
services in the following areas:
a)    Defmition of the model for immediate introduction of private
sector participation. The fimdamental objective is to bring in
private sector operators with fill technical and financial
responsibility for providing water supply services under
appropriate contractual arrangements with WASA.
b)    Reorganization of institutional structure in the water sector
needed to allow private sector participation as discussed in
section A above. Advisory services are needed to define the
changes in the legal structure for spin-off of the water
operations under private sector management. This study would
explore the alternative forms of organization under existing



30
Trinidad & Tobago Law and will prepare an action plan for the
legal changes to be inplemented prior to and in parallel with
the introduction of private sector participation in water supply
operations. A public education program is also planned to
inform the public of the changes being proposed and to build a
broad consensus and understanding for the program.
c)    Preparation of the Water Industry Regulatory
Framework Critical to the introduction of a private operator
and reorganization of the sector will be the definition of a
framework and institutional arrangements for regulation of the
water sector. With the impending restructuring of the water
operations under the WASA Act, a number of regulatory
actvites that are being carried out by the present organization
of WASA will need to be reassigned. At the same time, the
role of the reconstituted Public Utilities Commission (PUC) in
tarff setting and in other regulatory actions needs to be
defined, particularly in an environment in which private sector
parficipation will increase in the coming years. The proposed
study will address these concerns and provide the Governnent
with the bases for decision-making in this regard. This aspect
of the advisory services will be carried out in a manner as to be
fully consistent with the ongoing reform and restructunng of
the PUC.
d)    Financial Evaluation and Due Diligence of WASA as
needed to attract private participation in the provision of water
supply services. This is needed for both the first and second
stage of the divestnent process.
e)    Preparation of Bidding Package. This would include
preparation of a business prospectus and all legal and technical
documents necessaiy to solicit bids from private operators for
both the first and the second stages of the divestment process.
f)    Advisory Assistance during the bidding process in both
stages of the divestment process, including assistance in
evaluation of proposals received and contract negotiations with
successfil bidder.
g)    Development and Implementation of the Second Phase of
the Divestment Process for completing the transition to mixed
private sector ownership of the water and sewerage operations.
Also included in this component is the conduct of a technical
audit during the 3 year period of the management contract for
the water operations, in order to measure technical
performance of the contractor and ensure that the Government



31
is obtaining appropriate technical services and satisfactory
management of the assets entrusted to the extemal manager
under contract.
Consultants, financed under the existing PPFs have been appointed to
undertake these above tasks. The initial contract with the consultants does not
include the follow-up work after the first phase of the divestment process. The
terms of reference with respect to these additional tasks, particularly under sub-
paras (c), (d), (e), (1) and (g) above will be reviewed by the Bank once the first
phase of the divestment process is substantially completed. At that stage, the
Government and the Bank will determine whether new consultants should be
selected to carry out the second phase of the divestment process, after a review
of the performance of the consultants under the first phase.
ii)   Interim Management Support: The Government has requested a
modest amount of funding for interim management support during the
transition to private sector operation . The existing management
contract with WASA expires at the end of August. The selection of a
private operator was originally targeted for early September. However,
this is an ambitious target and Government now expects that a more
realistic target of January 1, 1995 is feasible. However, even with
such a target, full management control by the private operator could
belayed by at least another 3 months or more. . In the interim period,
the Government expects to hire a core group of experienced managers
and technical staff to oversee WASA affairs and supervise the
implementation of the urgent rehabilitation works. The Government
expects that interim management support will be needed on
administrative, legal, and financial matters. WASA's technical
operations will continue to be handled by the present Technical
Director who is experienced and well-regarded. However, additional
technical staff will be needed to assist WASA to implement the
emergency actions in respect of leakage control and repairs being
undertaken under the project and expected to continue until the next
stage of the rehabilitation project gets underway in 1995 under the
supervision of the private operator/manager. This component will
provide funding for these interim management and staffing
arrangements.
m)   WASA Rehabilitation Detailed Design and Project Preparation
Activities: These activities have been funded under the existing PPFs,
which will be refinanced under WSIS. They comprise all the project
preparation tasks for which WASA has already contracted consultant
services or is now selecting consultants. The outputs from these
consultant design studies will provide the detailed design of the works
to be financed under the proposed Rehabilitation project



32
iv)   WASA Rehabilitation Emergency Operational Fund_ WASA's
water operations will require critical equipment and spares, as well as
operating supplies and chemicals during the period of transition from
now until the new private sector management arrangements take effect.
This component will provide funding for a part of WASA'a essential
needs to enable it to continue its operations through March 1995, when
it is expected that an investment loan for the proposed Rehabilitation
project could become available. More importantly, this component
would enable WASA to carry out urgent repairs to its water
distribution system and systematically improve water delivery
throughout the country prior to the start of the next dry season in
January/February 1995. Without these repairs, it woud be impossible
for WASA to assure uninterrupted water supplies to any but a minor
proportion of its customer base and to successfully implement the
approved tariff increases during 1995. The purchases funded will
include specialized monitoring equipment (approximately
US$500,000), chemicals (US$1.5 million), pump parts and pipe
fittings and other supplies (US$5.5 million). The provision of funds
for these essential purchases will enable WASA to use bidding to
obtain the most advantageous terms than is currently possible under a
precarious hand-to-mouth existence that more than doubles the price of
supplies. WASA will employ its own work force to carry out the
immediate repairs to its water supply system using the spares and other
material purchased under this component. An emergency task force is
being set up within WASA to ensure that the purchases of pipes,
fittings, pump spares and other parts will be quickly made available to
field crews for the actual repair work and that the logistics for carrying
out the repairs are well organized. The detailed procurement list and
descriptions are in the Project File.
c)    Drainage & Flood Control Project Institutional Support and Project
Preparation Assistance: This component provides for funding of the Project
Inplernentation Unit (PIU) to be established under the Drainage Division of
the Ministry of Works & Transport (MOWT) to supervise the preparation and
implementation of the drainage and flood control development program. The
component also provides for consultant support and staff training for the
drainage division and the planning division of the MOWT. This component
also provides funding for the various consultant services needed to prepare the
proposed Drainage and Flood Control Project, and to develop the enhanced
maintenance and priority works program for funding as part of the next phase
of the proposed strategy discussed in para 30. above. This component will
also finance the computer and other office equipment, vehicles and supplies to
support the PIU and the MOWT agencies. Standard computer workstations
including a full complement of essential project arrangement, data base, word
processing and financial analysis software and printers and plotters will be
purchased. Details of the component consultant services are in Annex 2.



33
3. Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
32.   The proposed WSIS project is estimated to cost US$ 33.1 million equivalent,
excluding taxes, but including contingencies and counting the cost of office and logistics
support to be provided by the project beneficiary agencies and the salary costs of WASA work
force that would be employed in the repair of the water system. The cost estimates are based
on prices prevailing in 1994 for consultant services of both international and local firms, whose
average man-month costs range from US$4,000 - 20,000, including, billing rates for different
levels of professional staff inputs, travel and other reimbursable expenses. The cost estimates
were based on an estimate of the mix of local and foreign consultant firms that are expected to
win the contrast awards. Equipment and spare parts costs are based on recent price quotations
obtained by the implementing agencies and on manufacturer's price lists for pump spare parts
and other related fittings and parts. A physical contingency factor of 10% was applied to all
the base estimates. Intemational price contingency factors were based on the expected price
increases for goods and services as estimated by the Bank. Purchasing Power Paity was
assumed to hold for the TT$/US$ exchange rate over the projected implementation period.
The cost estimate includes the works financed under the existing PPFs, which will be
refinanced under the WSES operation. The total project cost, including taxes and the office,
logistics support and the force account elements is estimated at US$33.1million equivalent.
Details of the cost estimates are shown in Annex 1. However, the cost estimate does not
include the estimated working capital support to be provided by the Government to WASA as
part of its commitiment to stabilize WASA's financial situation, clear arrears to trade creditors
and provide funds to meet WASA's debt service obligations and other operational losses to the
extent that WASA's internally generated funds are insufficient to cover such obligations (see
para 24. - 26. above). The financing plan for the project is as follows:
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
SOURCE OF FINANCING                   Amount in USS miDlion
Government of Tnnidad and Tobago/WASA        8.0
PHRD Japan Grant                             0.1
Proposed IBRD Loan                          25.0
TOTAL COST                                   33.1
33.   The proposed IBRD loan will finance about 76% of the total project cost. The
Government's financing for the technical assistance program will be limited to the provision of
offices, logistics and secretarial and other ancillary services, as well as the provision of vehicles
for field visits and internal movements by the different consultant teams that are expected to
carry out the several design and engineering assignments. In view of the tight budgetary
constraints under which the key beneficiary ministries are currently operating, this arrangement
is considered to be the most efficient in terms of advancing the institutional strengthening
objectives of the project In addition, as stated above, the Governmenfs commitment to
financial stabilization and support for WASA (see para 26. above and Annex 4) wiHl place a
substantially heavier burden than the proposed financing from the Bank loan. The objectives of
the divestment strategy could not be achieved without this substantial commitment of
Government monies.



34
34.   The Government will transfer the proceeds of the Loan for the Emergency Operational
Fund for WASA through a Subsidiary Agreement whose terms and conditions will be
discussed at negotiations. The Subsidiary Agreement will include provisions whereby, WASA
will enter into a contract with a suitably qualified private sector operator not later than January
1, 1995, to take full financial and operational responsibility for the water and waste water
operations, and will abide by the Monitoring Indicators and the Implementation Program
(Schedule 1). In addition, as indicated in para 25. above, the Government agreed at
negotiations to carry out all measures needed to ensure that the existing liabilities to WASA's
trade creditors are discharged in an orderly fashion.
B. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
1. Implementation Arrangements
35.   MOWT, as the agency responsible for the drainage and flood control program, has
established a Project Implementation Unit to be responsible for developing and implementing
the proposed drainage and flood control program, including an enhanced maintenance action
plan for early implementation in 1995. The Ministry of Public Utilities has also established a
Portfolio Management Unit that will oversee the implementation of the WASA restructuring
efforts and will be responsible for the related water resource management components.
WASA, has set up a Project Implementation Unit to be responsible for the preparation of the
rehabilitation project and has recruited an expatriate consultant advisor and suitable
professional staff to man the unit Terms of reference for all consultant services have been
drawn up and are being finalized for Bank review and approval prior to the launching of the
consultant selection process. The implementation capacity of the main agencies wiHl be
augmented through the recruitment of additional professional staff in the PIU's. WASA will
also redeploy a number of experienced professional staff from various operational areas to the
prinary task of rehabilitation and will recruit others to take care of more routine tasks. WASA
has a large number of maintenance workers who have the technical skills to carry out the
emergency repairs, including repairs of leaks, pipe replacement, installation of water meters,
and repair of pumps. Where such capacity is not readily available, WASA will contract out the
services as part of equipment purchases. The detailed procurement schedule is in the
Implementation Manual for the Project The project implementation schedules are attached as
Annex 3.
2. Procurement and Disbursement
36.   The Bank has carried out a review of the procurement procedures in Trinidad and
Tobago and determined their compatibility with the Bank's guidelines. The implementing
agencies have some limited experience in carrying out procurement following ICB practices.
The Project Implementation Units will employ suitably qualified procurement experts during
the implementation process to assist and train the local staff involved. These services will be
financed as part of the consultant services under the project. Procurement of all consultant
services would follow the Bank's guidelines. Procurement of chemical supplies and spare
parts would follow the Bank's ICB guidelines. Procurement of specialized telemetering
equipment, and essential spares for the urgent rehabilitation of WASA operations will be on the



35
basis of Limited Internaional Bidding as the number of potential suppliers is small. The Bank
has reviewed the procurement packages proposed by WASA in order to expedite the bidding
process and permit WASA to purchase the needed parts and supplies for the urgent works.
WASA will use the Bank's Standard Bidding documents. The Bank has also reviewed the
technical specifications of the main packages representing about 60% of the proposed items to
be finmced. All computer hardware and software purchases would be grouped and bid on the
basis of Limited International Bidding among hardware manufacturers with established
service and maintenance facilities in the country. Some emergency supplies and office
equipment would be procured on the basis of local and international shopping with at least
three quotations to be obtained by the implementing agencies. Such procurement will be
limited to purchases of less than US$25,000, amounting in the aggregate to less than US$1.0
million. No other procurement procedures would apply. ADl contracts for goods exceeding
US$25,000 will require prior Bank approval. These will ensure that at least 60% of the
contract awards covenng 90% of Bank financing will be subject to pnor remew by the Bank.
All consultant contract awards will be subject to prior Bank approval. All procurement under
ICB and LIB would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. The procurement and
disbursement schedules are attached as Schedule B. A Special Account, with an initial deposit
of US$1.5 million will be set up in the Central Bank to facilitate project disbursements. The
Goverfnent will designate one of the two implementing agencies, MOWT or MPU as the
coordinating agency for administering the Special Account The Government will caffy out
Annual Audits of the Special Account and furnish the reports to the Bank no later han three
months after close of the financial year. As all consultant services and material purchase
contract awards are expected to be made during the first six months of the inplemnentation
period, it is expected that the Bank loan would disburse over a three year period. The
estimated disbursement schedule is shown as Schedule A of the MOP. In order to provide
flexibility in implementing the emergency works at WASA, retroactive financing of up to
US$2.5 mlllion equivalent will be permitted for goods procured after June 1, 1994, but prior
to loan signature, but not later 12 months following it, in accordance with the procurement
methods indicated above.
3. Agreed Actions
37.   The following key agreements were reached at negotiations:
a)    The Govemment will pursue the Inplementation Program related to the
reorganization of the water sector and to the private sector orientation of
WASA in accordance with the timetable shown as Annex 3 of the Technical
Annex, and shall take or cause to be taken all restructuring actions and
measures needed to ensure a successful transition to prvate sector
management of WASA's water and waste water operations (Section 3.01 (b)
of the Loan Agreement);
b)    The Government will maintain or cause to maintain Project Implementation
Units in the Ministy of Works and Transport the Ministry of Public Utilities
and in WASA until completion of the Project, adequately staffed and
supported by procurement specialists, with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank. (Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement);



36
c)    The Subsidiary Agreement for the transfer of the proceeds of the for the
WASA Emergency Operational Fund and for the Project Preparation and
Divestment Technical Assistance shall be only terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; its signature and ratification shall be a condition of
disbursement of the loan amount allocated for the Emergency Operational
Fund. In addition, substantial progress in dealing with the potential claims of
WASA's trade creditors will also be a condition of disbursement of the above
component ( Category lb of the Disbursement Schedule).(Section 3.04 of the
Loan Agreement);
d)    The Government wiDl prepare and firnish to the Bank a draft Regulatory
Framework for the water sector not later than June 30, 1995, and thereafter
pursue all needed actions including regulatory changes and legislative
proposals to put such regulatory firamework into effect not later than December
31, 1996. (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement)
e)     Not later than December 31, 1996, the Government wiDl cause WASA to
furnish for Bank review and comment, an action plan for reform of the water
tariff structure and levels in line with the Govemment's Policy of ensuring
justifiable cost recovery for public utilities services under efficient operating
conditions (Section 4.04 (b) of the Loan Agreement);
f)    The Government wiDl establish a Special Account in the Central Bank of
Trinidad & Tobago in order to facilitate disbursements under the project; an
initial deposit of US$1.5 million wil be made into the Special Account. The
Special Account will be audited annually and the report sent to the Bank for
review and comment no later than three months after close of the financial year
(Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement);
g)    The Government will provide semi-annual progress reports to the Bank from
each of the agencies charged with project implementation (Section 3.12 of the
Loan Agreement);
h)    The Bank and the Government will carry out Annual Reviews of Project
progress (Section 3.13 of the Loan Agreement);
i)    The MOWT and WASA will carty out Environment Assessments for the
Rehabilitation Projects being prepared under their responsibility, as weDl as an
Environmental Audit of the WASA facilities prior to the start of bidding for the
second stage of the divestment process, and will implement the recommended
measures resulting from such assessments and the Audit (Section 3.11 of the
Loan Agreement).
38.   There are no special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.
Disbursement of funds for the emergency spare parts and operating supplies for WASA will
be conditional upon signature of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and WASA
on terns and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and upon evidence of substantial progress
having been achieved to clear WASA's arrears to its trade creditors.



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO WATER SECrOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTKNG PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
GCTr Objecidves         Project Component               Expected Results/Impact              Timing Targets (end Of)             Resposible Agency
Acthviie
Pursuit of private      Strategic Plan and     1. AppoIntmnet ofAdsoto the             1.  May1994                       1. M-lAstsyofPublcUtihtles
sector orIentatn In     Advisory Assistance to     Process of bringing in a Private Sector                                      (MPU) and WASA.
provision of Water      support the process of     Operator.
Servces                 divestment of the publc    2. Ddeition of First Stage Private      2.  June1994                     2.  MPUIWASA assisted by
sector from the proviion of  Sector Partidpation Modd                                                   Consutants
water and sewerae          3.  Completion of Fint Stape Bidding   3.  July 1994                     3.  MPU(WASA asisted by
senices.                   Documents.                                                                   Consultants
4.  Start Spectal Audit of Trade Accounts  4.  July 1994                 4.  AudItors GOTM
Payable
S.  Convene Meetitn of Trade Crediton    5.  August 1994                 5.  GOTr
and launcb process of clearing outstanding
liabilities
6.  Completion of Financial Audit of 1993  6.  August 1994               6.  Auditors, GOlT
Accounts
7.  Launch First Stage BMdi'fg Process.  7.  August 1994                 7.  MPU and WASA
S.  Selection of Suitable Partner.     8.  November 1994                 8.  COTT
9.  Appointment and start ot First Stage   9.  Janua,y 1995              9.  MPU/WASA
L,asing/Management Amngeseent . 
I  Start of Definition of Long Tertn  10. January 195                   10. MPU/WASA assisted by
Model for Prihate Sector Partidpation.                                       Consultans
11.  Strt of Financial Due Diligence    11. Januay 199S                  11. MPUIWASA assisted by
Eercise                                                                      Consultants
12. Completio of Fiancial Audit of 1994  12. June1995                    12. Auditors, GOTT
Accounts
13. Dditin of Second Stage Process of   13. June 1996                    13. MpU)WASA assisted by
prhiate sector partidpatio                                                   Consultats
14. Completionof Bidding Documents for   14. December1996                14. MPU/WASA asshsted by
Second Stage                                                                 Consultnts
15. Lanch of Bidding Process.          15. March 1997                    15. GOIT
16. Competton of Second Stage Process    16. September 1997              16. MPU/COTT
17. Equity Partner in Place under new   17. Janua!y 199                  17. COIT
orgauizationaI and legal structure
a-



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO WATER SECTOR S                                           STRENGTHENING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
GOTT Objes              Pfect Compone                   Expected Rsult/hmpa                   Tbng Targets (end ol)              Repoible Agenqy
_________                        ActMe
Reorganaton of Watr  1. ReorganI WASA to    1.             Leg  Fram ork Anle ad    .             Septeber 1994- Mrcb         L      GOTT assitd by
Setodnstut :            alOW for pihvater          Uecommenslateons for Cbanges n the       1995                             Consultans
paullclpation              WASA ActAIneeded
2. Develop a
mrehse strate  for   2.           DevepnofWater Resources  2.             Ju1994- Dember1995   2.           ISSC
water resources            Mnagemt Strategy.
management.                        a)      Fermation of Inter,             a)      July 1994                 a)      GOT?
Sectoral Steeng Commute
b)      Edorementef national            b)      Augut 1994                b)      ISSC
policy for Water Reorces
Management
c)      Launch of Pbase I               c)      December1994              c)      ISSC Consultant
Studies
d)      Launchof Phase II               d)      June 199                  4)      ISSC Consultants
Studie
e)      WRM Framework                   e)      September l995            e       ISSC
endorsed
I)      Workshop on WRM                 t)      October1995               I)      LSSC
Isso
d)      Start of Phase im               g)      December 199              g)      Different Agencde
Implementation of Strategic                                                       as relevant.
Plan, development of Master
Plan In the sub-sectors
3. Reorganize the Water
Resources Agency to carry   3.        RetcturIng Study under       3.      March 995                 3.      MPUMIWASA assisted by
out Its strategic role.    the Strategic Plan Assistnce for WASA                                     Consultants
4   Reorganize the
Drinage Dhisilon of        4.      Development of a Reorganization   4.    Implementation of the     4.      MOWT Drainage Dh*lon
MOWT to meet its strategic  Plan for the Drainage Dhision.         rationalization plan Wi begin in
role and functions.                                                June 195 and will be carried out             
over a 24 month period.                                                  F 
_



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
DMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
GOTT Objectrs             Project Component               Expected Results/Ipact                T1inmg Targets (end aof)               Responsible Agency
A__tlv1ties* ies**_ .- ..... . - ....--.._........                                                    .     ...... ...
GOTT Objectives           Project Component               Expected Results/Impact                Timing Targets (end of)              Responsible Agency
Ac.it.e._s
Development of a         Reorganize and restructure   1.     Definition of the Regulatory      1.      November 1994une 1995   1.          Consultants
Regulatory Framwwork   the Public Utilities          Framework
for the Water sector     Commission.                 2.       Institutional Strengthening of the  2.   May 1995-December 1996   2.         MPUIGOTT
PUC
a)      Assess Staffing Needs    a)      August 1995                         a)      MPUIPUC
assisted by
Consultants
b)      Prepare Training         b)      October 1995                        b)      MPU/PUC
Program                                                                      assisted by
Consultants
c)      Implement Training       c)      December 1995-December              C)      PUC assisted by,
196                                         Consultants
3.      Impkimentation of Recommended  3.         June 1995-December 1996   3.       GOTT
Measures and Mechanisms
r



40
SCHEDULE 1
Page 4 of 4
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECI
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS FOR WASA OPERATIONS
Monitoring Indicators
Proposed monitoring indicators and their expected target values are summarized in the
following table:
Monitorin_ Indicator                          Taret Values
Six Months After    One Year After First    Two Years After First
Effectiveness of the  Phase Assumption of    Phase Assumption of
WSIS Project       Responsibility by the  Responsibility by the
Private Sector Operator  Prvate Sector Operator
Unaccounted For Water        48%o                 45%                    42%
(UFW)                   (Reduction from
55% estimated in
1993)
Increase in Percent of       10%              Additional 5%          Additional 5%
Population With          (Total of 60%)       (rotal of 65%)         (rotal of 70%)
hnproved Water Supply
(receiving water at least
20 hours per day)
Installation of Domestic                         40,000            Additional 40,000
Meters
Worldkn Ratio                 100                  85                     75
Average Revenue per          1200                 2400                  2700
customer (IT$)
Number of Customers         200,000              220,000               230,000
Bied___



43
0
....... ... . .
C4
.. .......                .....                              ... .....  ......  ........... ....... ...... .....                                                            ......... . ... ......  ..
Cu
....... ......... ....... ....... ......
tA
M                                                                                                                  M  44
fq
...... . .        ....    ....                                                               ...... ...... ...... ....                                  ......   ....... ..... ............. .......
81                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C4
(14
fq                                                                                                                'eq
...             .        ..    ......                                                                                                                                                       . .... .......                            .......
LD
Z C4
52



42
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
TR2.1 AD    a  TO BA O_                            _   _  _   _   _   _  _   _   _  _   _   _   _  _         
WATERSECTR VNST53MTONA   STR'qCTHL%INC PROJECT
COST ESTMATE 
-   1394.               .             98M196                                                 TOTAL 
'Loco    For        T03       LOW 2F4em!          Trow      Locl   F ~    TOWl   Lcl               r          TOWa
. OCA TONOF WATERSE TXSMNAGMEN7X                                                               I                                               2
-aw oler moocs.a Lt    oaSS                                                55.23Wd   55.2      50.-   4663.9.    6..       12.;4 6661.8   2238                    377.0    13)79.0    1'8
Pa bIl L02Ue c4mmhssloa (P                                                  0..       .         00       63.0     430       14.         .        .0       00       43         4.        I 6.
~b2s8otPobcU0hUehPwfd0o            514                           20           42.01     8.1       8.!      8.1       180       8.        8.. 280           200        200         2.
Sub.TotaI                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~9'.2i    9..2,    194.31   8089.   808.5  343.8    1411.9    !4.9;  54915*  WW52.  502.0    3304.
R. PRIVATE SECTOR REORIENTATION OF WATER SERVICES                              i                                                           
Sub.Tow  wfk 3PtmaAj 4i A sssa                                            4150.01   830.0    5260.01   607.    1035so1t30.                     3.0      540       Mr.$1   m2.i   34
latest. Mu)                                        .  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~       ~~~~~1908.  202.0  40.         WU016.  2.  0.0      0.0      8.       9.0!      378.0      45.0
WASA MeAftablSlalIm  Pro                                                   09.      705.5    3235IN0.  6A9.      8S.O10    25S631    3640.0    248.0    40.' 2690           28.0      37.
SOb-Totl!                                                                3373      riS       22.-20.'27.                    421      500      040       140    3303.5'   4421.         7825.
C. DRALIACE & FLOOD CONTROL PROJEI.L%f8TIT%. TIONAIJ. SUPPORT2r601 3UJ                                                               $01 $*Iitti    13.! 441                          -I
ftolm                                                   lalLot~~~~~~~~~28.  40.0  161.0    243.0  USA.   378.0    270.0    350.01   420.       622.0      340.0      946.0
AuRkbrarwaks~~~~~~~~                                     Mol8.    Ice0      305        4.0     20.0       06.8     36.0     20.0      540       50.        50.01    440.
tIYoW*rkRI.          DM1100W                                           30.0      30.0      28.       36.0     10.0       54.0     3.4.     20.0      040        0.        80.01    540.
Sdb-Ttdl                                                                   4.01    80.0       2M4.     335.0    p15.0       400.     342.0    38MM       3.0      81          450      34.
L. DRAINAGE & FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT pREpARATlO,. ACTMVTIESI
S02rot Tam Rgbelt,lion PMu                                                200.       72.0     280.0       0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0      0.        0.0     t08.        72.       l88.
Carrot Bash)  StudIes                                 50.0     ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~60.0  250.  200.0    192.  400.    0.0      0.0       0.0     378.0     252.0      430.
BA-   asI      StudIe                                                   )0.0    232.0     330.0    432.0    290.0       720.       0.0       0.0      0.0      62.0      40.        05.
EasAAWA CogsldoSlodlas                                                     90.0      400      25.       080    352.0        800.       0.0      0.0       0.0     630.       422.      1030.0
ftpf   amF                                                          0.0      0.0        0.0    213.2    060.        400.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     21123.      6.       480.0
North0.  0.0                                                                                    0.       32.0    140.       340.       0.       0.0       0.0     232.       260.0      3010.
lPOBe"laSlol                                                             00        . 0.0            200.0    292.0      4600.0      .0o _  0.0        0.0      288.0      5)2.      400.e
Tabu  Ifo,d R,u6 PreKtrcOoSSudle                                        34.0     24.0      60.0    280.       320.0     300.0      8.0 _    0.0       0.       216.0     346.0      360.0
use et oct3Cooh'OcIes                                                       0.0       0.0       0.8      52.8     67.2      320.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      52.        47.2      220.0
CosuecoamySWmM                                                              0.0       0.0       0.      33.6      86.4      620.       8.  0.0       0.    0       316        86.       228.
ERTavrmoelaAsesues40.0                                                              844       234.      192.0    34A.      5)7.61    96.0    372.      268.       336.0     44         940.
SU&OW.ro                                                                  570.      434.     3004.4   2376       0801.0    4427.6     54.0    i72.      268      300161   268.1    5490.
F. CObSPIJER HA14DWI SO9TwARS, EouJPmErT & SUPPLIEs
8dp    Flood Coorr PsW                                                 50.0     M6.       50A        7.       45.       52.        0.0      0.0O     0.0       225       53.       257.
hasr(Pob22tJOumd                                                        6.5       9.0      50.5       0.4      0.0        0.0I     0.0      0.0       0.         33        9.0       30.5
Waste ResrcesA M(Di Cal3ec14 Plafowm)                                       0.0       0.        0.0    125.    2350.       257.        0.0      0.0       0.0     225.      53150.0    I57m*
WASA                       92,06OasmdFw                                  4200.    420.0    8400.    5050.0   1050.0    2200.0          0.        .        0.       5.       55.    2560.0
SOb-Tdde                                                                 4224.5   4109.0    I55M    ?.282       1445.      3727.5      0.0      00        0.0    548I.      6744.0   32242.
TOTAL BSE COST
WdateRm         g    og Basoe                                              552i    S5.2       110.3    8869   20113       i8n8.      463.5    64.    513.8    3604.         271.0    4323
P001k UllIOe CoumSsde  PUQ                                                  0.        0.0       0.0      43.0     410.    326.         0.t00               o.      63.0       60        22.
mb   Pabmc 231dme                                                      43.0      53.0      94.       84.      84.0      348.0     84.      84.      248.      22A        219.0      410.5
arbt      Floo Coutro Prok                                            729*  0.4          W2.U    2460.    2300.       4960.      43U      342.     800       302.2    3187.       7054.
Wo4MOper       QmVM(AA                                                   5M37.    0971.5   31320.8   2456.3   3126.0    5S61.   S4ao    564.    2304.0    8)53.             9460.    3801011
GRA1ND TOTAL                                                             6584.9   6682.    52867.0  6258.3   7586.         37       2723.    2672.    3354.    1409.    1595.
PHWSICALCO#TNMGENCIES
Woo9SW   Rewes     m e  fd                                                   W.      5.5       31.0     981.7    205.      269.5      442      662      12.4      540.4       912.     403
P00k U201a0s Caumlason ow0.0                                                          0.0       0.0       6.1      8.3       32.       4.0       0.0      0.0        .31       4.3       32.
mm oTPoOOu3H3O                                                          4.4       5.1       9.5       8.       0.4       368       8.       8.4      34.       213.       215.9      412
Drain   A Rlood 0.003 aL                                                   72.9    60.4       133.     146.      23&0.0     496.      43.8     36.3      85LI     3017       336.7     709.
Wate                                                                      035. OM (WS)  S7    597.  222.9    240.  3226     558.     5SU       56.4    220.4    8O5.         944.      202
TOTALFIHYSICALCON4TINGENCtES                                              658.     648.      1286.     615.0    700.       1373.     272.4    56U       339.7    54608,   1t54.       2899.9
MCECONWGKCIUM
WateR BasUaMs                                                               0.0ato    0.        0.0       0.0     22.        12.       6.0     13.       33.2       0.0       15        25.1.
P00blicUO3IIlCoamSmtco                                                      0.0)  t   0.0       0.0       0.0      0.A        0.6      0.        80       8.        0.0        0.4       0
WAbotPobiINIftBlOes                                                     0.9       0.0       0.0       0.0       .6        0.6      0.0       2.7      L7        0.        .2.1
aPdm      lodColldrt*                                                   0.0      0.. 0       0o      0.0      3.        15.4       0.0      4.W.                 .        22.       22.
W-aler         q    M                                                       0.0 t     0.0       0.0       0.0     33.       3Ms        0.0      62.5     22.        0.        2.        24.
TOTAL PRICE CON4TIN4GENCIES                                                 0.0       8.        0.0       0.0     42.1      42.1       0.0     32.       32A4       0.0       74.        74L5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTI
WatoR090Nel                                                                60.7sktw  60.7.    111.A     "is   2220.       3200.7    728.1    745.2   2493        1164.      3027.0    4792.4
PublictXr  n  (UliIIrCrmIe                                                  8.0       0.        0.0      69.3     49.9      335.2      0.0       0.0      0.0      69.3       69.9      339.
2uaol'PoblrUUic                                                        4.9       06.      104.0      92.      93.0      195.41    92.       54.I    180.5    237         243.1
afM     Floo Contro Proje                                             80.9     66.9      5467 2926.    25654          5471.5    413.8    405.6    0017.4    4998       3635.9     75.
Water     2t M MWAA                                                      5993.    656.7     3242.    2702.5   3402.2    4152.5    054.        425   5125.        93889-  51060.3      2042
GRAND TOTAL                                                              4903.414103.7   67=                   8WM.    35250.    289.    185.4 378.    15640S.0   176.1              367.



TRINI2DA0& TOBA00
WA_     -SECTOR IN TUTIOKAL S13R240THNDR0 MOJCTPIWARATMIN  AND PRIVATS SC                A           TASTA POCP MT
COST ESTAIMATS  t    0__ 9=. _USS _ _.     _ . 1                                                              W     .  TOTAL                 ___ _
_994 I95                                                 29_  _RA) IT iS    S_OT  iTOALS                                     ._ __             TOTAL
OT 0 _      __QTOTAL_t t  tT        T30 t4TOTALq ThI             TN)TROTOTAL TOTAL  COiT   COST                coSTS   COST  -. PhYSIAL PSRIt            COT
ARtORoAIZATtON 01 WATUIRSCTOR    A1AGMINT
_uomas   6 6 _         is   to    8   2o         72   1  I8      2     29     72 n     5     2 2     2 970        788     212 8         17 2 3. .1
Uu3.Caaouae.8                                              0        ~        ~~ ~~         ~~~~                                    ~~~~             ~     ~ 3   6  0  6    is  9036  R2ig     2       12
tl.y at    u 0hPoV              O      Y W A7                         2    1        4           2 22                I     2     t  2        2t             20    Is  1700               20      420           41     2t        46
__To                                                                  2  -         20    20          2U   23   .4    201  r   201                   0l    176             216          944    330       __            20
IIPRVATSSSCTOR  ORUO5ZATION 01WATMSERtVC2CNIS
Phatfk   Af       Ajdboc.                                         27    13      60   33    to   is   25         so    6      66       6         24       65    I       275          98013465              147      21       430
=1    212    24  t2        0    0    0       12     0     0     0             aS  0  3      274i1s                        675           68       0       741
AiAr40o2i2o  F14    so                                                            74   41    4       2 _21    to    12    22  _2    is            49  _23    115         10           675      17          . __              172
bb-Tod            t6 RO                                                        25 IO   6    40   27   15        94    18    is     1            71     In  424         57     _   1800.  .    S           -l 7     17  _ 193
DRIOC& FLOODCONTROL PROAjCT s2nvT2TUoNLsuWpoRT
_D5*                                              22   12       14    22           5             4          15                  60      18              690        176t94 6_ _7 _ Is  __ _ _ I  is  a  ___ _ 2. 91 ___4  2110
.9W2b2a                                                        2      2       4    2      2     2    2         I   2      a    2      1      1       20             2            40   . 40             24       2       1
@9W              _d                                             2     2       4    2      2    2  U          8    *      2  t2    *                  2                   __0_ _      _    i 9          24       it _i
Toid 16 1                                                                         1   16   16    19   29        70   19      9    so    i       76a  _78                8                   1246 _I   __ _            _   1376
D42A8a rFOPCOMTROIPR0J&CTP22S4 RATIQMCIVTS
.m Tw   Rbo                                                                              n IfS 12 22t2         _    0 1_                            8      24      6       64           16      sii           tog4-
35B   Selta it n                                                      6    9       15    12 2 12           2       48_ 0                                   6       48      804         216      610_                   I 61
b DtSta                                                        Is   to    1as      i     to    to   is 2                                      0 _            8 _a_  6            210  _050.            to         _       7
._ntOotS m                                                                  s     is  124  _        II   20        80  _01                                        8       6_4         20      2030  __       03       2        415
_C_ y &Y                                 -                                      _ _                     _  _0 12   Is   it  4               48    a8        1 i           6      4   ___S      4 .              520
0    to    20   20   20       40                          __0          40     6       240          a8      101                    1       32
flub    ef8         Ct_ s                                                      0a9   115   21l   21lg  t22t    I8    n   n      t9         I   l(t0  Xa      _      t    --Iti a 48  I  184  911  30    *8    '          52
hUIudNoadPrEM!!boowstI,                                               8       8    20, s0    I0   10         4018                             01     48      6       2887                 6   .01                        9
oumtLmooiColuoImI                                                                  0    6      6                  121                              01     is      9        96          24      1ao           12       0       In11
R3SOTAI          i                                       lXt  I         0    1                  t 3    I2                               0       II              96 =         4      220           12       2
R7smnhmlw   bof Aa                              a 
&82660a.0d                                    20~~~~~~~~~~4I   2020    20   22 1             0                               02 1  4  16    8       620         8o       95*          26        0     too
b   4bo ol8"ombdpo   dlo    to                                                   2     0                         0o                              Q'      1      S        20                  ISO           16       0       173
3.00,30   ChSodho                                                        2                   2~~~~~~~~~2 2                   8       22 22500'  I_ 75                    isS         I5         7        i2
ASh                                                ~~ ~~         ~~ ~~~~~~                                                              ~~~~~4  4  8    1  2  8  20   780  7520  386 i250  2050     3    223
b-Told        ________________    -                 -        ~~ ~~~~~~0  0  - -    -      --                       -_   43                         926         162      2214         1124       t  10    2
TOTAL  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                               2259    742 159    1000   6
a03R.aW0U                                          ~~ ~~         ~~~~~~~~~~0  6  6    28    is   to   t8  72   3S  28282872             180O           3470         81      43             1        5      49
I2~~~~~~~C0dm ~~~~~~~~0    .6                                 69    6      0     3     1      22     0     0     0     0!     0       29              M01  _    216                     I2_      2        3
etP s8eU                                                   2      2      4    1            2      x      6           I     2     5       6      t0              $SO         its      63*           41       1
C4fAPWtWAM                                as~~~~6   95    too   1  42   17   27    294       28    2 is  1     18      7      424            23225        480     2815         282m        0
a  clood                          8884        219215   215  128   218    5*632~~~~~~~~~~~~~S   31    2929 1   10"0    76     _         52         251        9          7i9       321     8
TOTAL                           220   199    123   30   297  278  178    822    69    68~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ST5    30     27              157          40      9            3000      *0
"I 1  313  201 S"   In    I"     67    2a                                  7401         ~         ~          HLU



44
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 14
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
PROJECT PREPARATION ACTIVITIES AND DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
INTRODUCTION
1.    Two projects will be prepared under the water sector institutional strengthening loan:
(i) the water rehabilitation project vAich will be implemented by WASA; and (ii) the drainage
and flood control project which will be implemented by the drainage department of the
Ministry of Works and Transpora Descriptions of these projects and details on their
preparation are in the Implementation Manual. Sunmaiy descriptions of the main project
preparation activities are presented in this Annex.. In addition, the draft Terms of Reference
for the Water Resources Management Strategy development are also presented in this Annex.
A. THE WASA REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Preparation Activities
2.    Activities for preparation of the WASA Water Rehabilitation Project include the
following:
a)    Establishment of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which will be
responsible for preparation and subsequently implementation of the project.
The PIU will be composed of: one foreign specialist who will head the unit, one
senior engineer, 2-3 engineers, a computer operator, a draftsman, an
accountant, two secretaries and additional support staff
b)    Design of replacement of 100 km of pipes in the water supply distribution
network (the TOR and LOI for this activity have been prepared. A consulting
firm was hired and is about to initiate the design work);
c)    Finalization of Terms of References (TOR's) and Letter of Invitation (LOI's)
documents for design of the following works:
i)    replacement and upgrading of booster and water tre.-Iment plants
pumping stations;
ii)   rehabilitation of water treatment plants;
iii)   rehabilitation of eleven service reservoirs;



45
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 14
iv)   rehabilitation of existing wells and drilling of new wells.
d)    Finalization of technical specifications and bidding documents for purchase of
bulk meters for all WASA's water production sources and water supply
systems as well as for purchase of 80,000 domestic water meters;
e)    Hiring of consulting firms or individual consultants to carry out the design of
rehabilitation works to be implemented under the project;
f)    Hring of advisors on Unaccounted For Water (UFW) reduction, network
operation, maintenance, demand management and training;
g)    Detection and repair of leaks (Materials and supplies for carrying out these
urgent works are included under the emergency operational fund);
h)    implemented after the cor ,1etion of the rehabilitation project; and
i)    Preparation of Environmental mitigatory measures of the Rehabilitation Project
components, as necessary.
3.    In addition to the preparation of the water rehabilitation project the WSIS project
includes purchase of spare parts and materials for the WASA water supply system, as well as
purchase of chemicals for water treatment used in the WASA water treatment plants.
B. THE DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL PROJECI
Project Preparation Activities
I1.    The activities for preparation of the Drainage and Flood Control Project include the
following:
a)    Establishment of the Project Inplementation Unit (PIU) which will be
responsible for preparation and subsequently implementation of the project.
The PIU will be composed of: a project director, five project engineers, two
draftsmen, a computer operator, an accountant, a secretary and additional
support staff.
b)    Finalization of Terms of References (TOR's) and Letter of Invitation (LOI's)
documents for studies and design of works to be implemented under the first
drainage and flood control project as follows:
i)    rehabilitation program for selected existing drainage, irrigation and
coastal infiastructure installations;



46
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 14
ui)    completion of the Caroni river basin design, i.e., design of the road
bridge on the river at Piarco Village;
iii)   review and update of the existing designs fbr Vistabella and Marabella
Rivers Improvement Works;
c)    Finalization of TOR's and LOI documents for studies and design of works to
be implemented under the second drainage and flood control project as follows:
i)    Caparo River basin design
ii)    East/West Corridor studies and designs
iii)   Cipero River basin studies and designs
iv)   Oropuche Lagoon feasibility study
v)    North Oropuche, Guaico and Cunapo studies and designs
vi)   Tobago Milton road protection design
d)    Employment of advisers to review the TOR's;
e)    Hiring of consulting firms or individual consultants to carTy out the studies and
design specified above for both the Enhanced Maitenance and Rehabilitation
Project and the proposed medium term National Drainage and Flood Control
Project
f)    Preparation of the Environmental Assessment (EA) of the Enhanced
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
g)    Preparation of the EA of the studies associated with the proposed mediun term
National Draiage and Flood Control Project



47
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 14
C. WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT STRATEGY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
INTRODUCTION
1.    Trinidad and Tobago has ample surface and ground water resources, but the
responsibility for its management is highly fiagmented. Poor coordination in source protection,
development, and distribution, pollution control and water pricing has led to inefficient
utlization of this vital resource and deterioration of the water environment. The Water and
Sewerage Authority (WASA) Act of 1965 established WASA as the agency responsible for the
development and control of the nation's waters. WASA has concentrated on supplying potable
water for municipal and industrial uses, treating and disposing municipal wastewater and
selling water in bulk to industrial and large agricultural customers. But it has not managed to
carry out those functions efficiently. Over 50 % of its supply is unaccounted for mostly due
losses in the distribution system, parts of which are vely old, and also due to illegal
connections. Some areas in the central and southern part of Trinidad either receive intermittent
supplies or face severe shortages. Large quantities of unaccounted for water and other factors
have resulted in lost revenue and WASA is unable to meet payroll let alone provide for
adequate maintence and operation of its facilities.
2.    The Water Resources Agency (WRA) of WASA is responsible for promoting the
conservation and proper use of water resources and for collecting, analyzing, documenting,
publishing and disseninating hydrological data. WRA is also responsible for controlling
abstractions of surface and ground water and management and collection of royalty payments.
Insufficient funding, training, and equipment constrain WRA in performing its mandate
effectively or efficiently. Instead of managing Trinidad and Tobagos water resources in a
broader context the WRA has only played a narrow role in supporting WASA.
3.    Idand water pollution is an important environmental issue. Inadequate monitoring of
point and non-point discharges of pollution and the lack of enforcement of pollution control
measures are compromising the quality of source waters, posing potential health hazards,
increasing treatnent costs and effecting inland, estuarine and coastal aquatic ecosystems.
About 30 percent of urban households are connected to central sewerage systems, the rest
depend on septic tanks and pit latrines. In general, municipal wastewater treatment plants are
poorly maintained, or provide itadequate treatment, or are broken down completely and
discharge partially or untreated wastewater into surface water courses, posing significant health
hazards. Pit latrines and septic tanks located in recharge zones pose a significant risk of
contaminating groundwater. The principal land based industries polluting the waterways are
located in the west and central corridor. These include petroleum refineries, sugar mills and
refineries, alcohol distilleries, petrochemnical and chemical (e.g., ammonia, urea), soap,
pharmaceutical, beverage, canned food, iron and steel, metals, cement, and power industries.
Contamination from these industnes has reduced considerably the quality of the rivers,



48
ANNEX2
Page S of 14
especially the Caroni and Couva Rivers and the coastal waters of Trinidad (especially the Gulf
of Paria, where fish kills have been reported). Fertilizers, pesticides and fingicides used in
agriculture and wastes from poultry and livestock operations are also transported into streams
and rivers directly by surface runoff or as adsorbed to soil particles carried by runoff. Pesticide
residues bio-accumulate in tissues of aquatic species and can build up in the food chain and
pose serious health hazards. Nutrients from animal wastes and fertilizers accelerate
eutrophication and increase the cost of treatment due to frequent filter runs. These pollution
sources and others, such as lealing underground tanks for storing gasoline and toxic chemicals,
leachate from solid waste landfills (located in Beetham, Forres Park, and Guanapo), poultry,
pig and livestock operations, and cemeteries located on or near recharge areas may even be
contaminating groundwater. Excessive groundwater pumping along coastal areas has also
caused saltwater intrusion. However, the overall extent of ground water contamination is yet to
be determined. WASA monitors physical, chemical and biological parameters in its source
waters, but it does not analyze nutrients, pesticides and heavy metals due to the lack of trained
manpower even though it has the equipment to do such analysis. The Chemistry, Food and
Drug Division of the Ministry of Health (MOH) is responsible for monitoring agro-chemical
residues and toxic chemicals, but it lacks manpower (even though 6 new positions have been
approved for over a year) and budget to carry out its mandate. The MOH performs its
sampling on an ad hoc basis. Because of poor communication, the little data and information
that is generated by different agencies is not readily shared. As a result, WASA, for example,
is not appraised of other important work done, for example, in identi1fing and quantifying point
and non point sources of pollution recently completed by IMA-CARIRI.
4.    The Drainage Division of the Ministry of Works and Transportation (MOWT) is
responsible for constructing and maintaining drainage channels for storm water and flood
control structures in major catchment basins. It's mandate does not include the provision of
non structural measures for flood control (such as zoning or land use plannig which falls
under the Division of Town and Countxy Planning in the Ministry of Plamning and
Development) nor does it call for coordination with the Forestry Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Land and Marine Resources, which promotes watershed management. Structural
measures such as lined channels, though necessary in urbanized areas, are reactive measures
for contaning floods, but their usefulness diminishes with irregular maintenance or when
floods exceed design capacity. Poor land use, e.g., slash and burn cultivation, uncontrolied
logging, cultivation on steep slopes, and building on steep slopes without adequate controls
reduces vegetative cover and top soil, which strengthens the soil matrix, retards surface flows
and enhances groundwater infiltration. Reduced cover therefore increases surfce runoff and
reduces the time of concentrabon dramatically, thus increasing both the magitude and
frequency of flash floods. Reduced cover also accelerates soil erosion and sediments
transported in the streams, increasing suspended solids and turbidity, and therefore, the cost of
water treatment. Turbid waters smother coral polyps and reduce the productivity of coral
communities, a factor which can seriously threaten coastal tourism. Surface runoff from
cultivated areas, eroded areas and quarries increase suspended solids and turbidity of the
water, increasing treatment costs and effecting coastal resources. Non structural controls, e.g.,
zoning regulations, land use planning and watershed management are more sustainable



49
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 14
measures for controlling floods. Pilot studies carried out by the Foresty Division indicate that
the benefits of re-vegetating small catchments are quite significant in terms of reducing both
streamflow as well as the rate of soil erosion.
5.    Major institutional changes are necessary for managing Trinidad and Tobago's water
resources in a more sustainable manner. A new paradigm which considers water and the water
environment in a broader perspective needs to be developed and adopted. The proposed Water
Resources Management Strategy (WRMS) will provide a comprehensive framework for
sustainable management of Trinidad and Tobago's water resources and recommend
institutional changes for broadening and strengthening the role of the Water Resources Agency.
OBJECTIVES
6.    The objectives of the WRMS are to integrate land use, cross-sectoral uses of water, the
water environment and public health concerns on a basin-wide basis, and to assess the
effectiveness of existing cross-sectoral institutions (such as policies, legislation, agencies, and
coordination mechanisms) for sustainable management of the nation's water resources.
7.    The preparation of the WRMS will be carried out in three phases. Phase I will be to
conduct a national water resources assessment. The outcome of Phase L comprising of
various options, will be presented and discussed at a workshop of key stakeholders and the
workshop recommendations will then need to be endorsed by the govemment. Duing Phase
1, these recommendations will form the basis for formulating a national water resources
management strategy for addressing medium to long term goals. Phase ImI will be to develop a
detailed implementation plan for addressing priority issues, but whose terms of reference will
be prepared during Phase UI. The scope of work for Phases I and II is summarized below.
SCOPE OF WORK
8.    The preparation of the Water Resources Management Strategy will cover the following
main tasks on a basin-wide basis:
a)    Evaluation of the institutional system govemning the development and
management of the water resources and the water environment
b)    Assessment of existing monitoring programs for collecting meteorological,
hydrological, hydro-geological, water use and quality, and land use data.
c)    Assessment of the quantity and quality of the available surface and ground
water resources
d)    Assessment of present surface and ground water resources development and
use and evaluation of existing infrastructure



so
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 14
e)    Assessment of the quantity and quality of all major point and non-point sources
of wastewater generated and an evaluation of wastewater callection, treatment
and disposal methods and infrastructure.
f)    Assessment of existing conflicts between land use and water use, resources
and quality
g)    Preliminary projections of future water supply and demand, and the
development of alternative scenarios for future water balance
h)    Formulation of options that address the main issues emerging during the
assessment and analysis
i)    Evaluation of alternative strategies for managing the water balance, including
those related to the management of supply and those relating to the
management of demand, managing water quality, managing land use planning
and managing the water environment
j)    Presentation of options at a workshop of stakeholders
k)    Endorsement of workshop recommendations by the government
:)    Formulation of a national water resources management strategy on the basis of
options endorsed by the government and defining terms of reference for an
implementation plan for addressing priority issues
PHASE I: WATER RESOURCES ASSESSMENT
9.    The first 10 months will be devoted to assessing existing water resources and
institutions. This work will be to inventory existing information, collect new information,
analyze the information, formulate options, and present them at a workshop.
INVENTORY
10.   Assessment of Existing Information and Studies.
a)    Review from a quantitative and qualitative standpoint existing sources of data
on surface and groundwater resources, including statistical sources, studies,
documents, maps and ancillary reports, and identifr data gaps.
b)    Review how data (on climate, land use, water use and water environment) is
collected, processed, analyzed and disseminated, and who has excess to
existing data bases.



51
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 14
c)    Review analytical methods used to assess water resources and water resources
issues, and evaluate their strengths and weaknesses.
11.   Assessment of the Physical Resource Base.
a)     Describe and assess the physical resource base, including climate, land, water,
water environment and other physical charactenstics.
b)
Assess surface water availability and review agreements on water allocations
among major users.
c)    Assess the availability of groundwater and groundwater use.
d)    Assess exmsting surface and ground water qualty, and evaluate point and non
point sources of pollution and the nature of spatial and temporal trends.
Delineate recharge zones and assess potential sources of groundwater
pollution.
e)    Assess aquatic ecosystems affected by poor land and water use.
12.   Water Resources Development and Use.
a)    Describe the allocation of water between consumptive and non consumptive
uses under normal and extreme (dry) conditions.
b)    Evaluate past and present developments of single and multi-purpose water
supply and control inastructure, including water storage projects, water
diversions, and pumping plants.
c)    Assess past and present programs in water supply and disposal of wastewater
from municipal and industrial discharges, including trends in coverage of water
supply and sewerage services, the nature and developments of industrial
demands for water, and trends in other domestic and municipal uses.
d)    Assess past and present programs in the irrigation and drainage sector,
including the nature of supply and drainage system (e.g., gravity or pumped
scheme, the performance of irrigated agriculture, the occurrence of water
logging and secondary salinity, transport of pesticide residues and nutrients and
other adverse environmental impacts in irrigated agriculture).
e)
Evaluate the impact of upstream water uses and wastewater discharges on
downstream uses of water, including needs for in-stream uses and marine
resources.



52
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 14
13.   Assessment of Flood Control Works.
a)    Evaluate past and present perfonnance of structural flood control and river
basin management works.
b)    Assess past and present watershed management activities and the impact of
poor land use on surface runoff and sediment transport.
c)    Develop hydrologic and hydraulic models for the Caroni River Basin.
d)    Delineate catchments to be protected through soil conservation and
afforestation programs and floodplain to be protected and maintained through
effective land use planning.
e)    Assess land use controls for managing watersheds and floodplain.
14.   Assessment of Institutions.
a)    Evaluate the institutional system goveming the development and management
of the water resources and the water environment including, but not limited to,
legislation, the regulatory and administrative framework, management of the
water resources and the water environment, and provision of water services to
end-users.
b)    Review existing legislation and identify modifications that may be desirable to
address medium to long term goals.
c)    Review existing regulatory framework govemning water and associated land use
as it effects water use, water quality, and the control of the water resources, for
example, during floods, and identify modifications to the regulatory framework
in support of sustainable economic development goals.
d)    Review agency finctions and organizations with respect to the management of
the resource on the basis of:
e)    Functional linkages in agency responsibilities for water and associated land
use, surface water and ground water quantity and quality, public health and the
environment
f)    Separation of policy, planning and regulatory functions from operational
functions, assignment of operations functions to special agencies, and
decentralization of responsibilities to the level appropriate to the function
assigned



53
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 14
15.   Functions relating to the management of water resources include:
a)    Data Collection, processing and dissemination
b)    National policy, planning and resource management
a)    Pollution control and enforcement
b)    Basin planning and management
c)    Regulation and oversight
2.    The role of the government in strategic planning at the level of the individual sector,
together with the provision of policy guidance and technical support to utilities and other
entities needs to be considered.
3.    Assessment of Manpower Needs. Assess manpower and training needs for
enhancing and strengthening the role of the Water Resources Agency to be a broad based water
resources management agency.
ANALYSIS
4.    The Water Balance.
a)    Estimate past trends and present use on the basis of water balance based on
present levels of efficiency in water use in different sectors, accounting for re-
use and allowing for annual, seasonal, and regional variability in supply and
demand.
b)    Project future water supply and demand over the medium (2005)) and long
(2015) terms, and present altemative future water balances on differing
assumptions concerning existing water allocations and the need to augment
flows to water bodies, population projections, and the level of per capita
consumption, industrial development and the effect of regulation on industrial
and municipal demand, irrigation development and the impact of programs to
improve irrigation efficiency, and demand management
5.    Water Quality.
a)    Develop a surface water quality model for the Caroni River Basin.
b)    Assess altemative future trends in water quality, taking into account the effect
of irrigation, drainage, and municipal and industrial developments and possible
witigation effects of regulatoty and incentive measures for the protection of



54
ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 14
water quality.
c)    Evaluate the extent of saltwater intrusion caused by excessive groundwater
pumping.
d)    Evaluate alternate programs for monitoring point and non-point sources of
pollution.
e)    Evaluate alternate Best Management Practices for protectng water quality
from non-point
f)    sources of pollution.
6.    Flood Control.
a)    Evaluate the benefits of complementing non structural measures with
structural measures for minimizing flood damage.
b)    Recommend non-structural measures for protecting watersheds and floodplain.
c)    Evaluate institutional changes for coordinating watershed and floodplain
management
7.    Environmental Management.
a)    Evaluate measures for restoring and protecting polluted waterways and
damaged ecosystems.
b)    Evaluate measures for coordinating and complementing the functions of the
proposed Environmental Management Agency and the Water Resources
Agency for managing water resources
c)
Rank issues in order of their importance in supporting development objectives
and key water policies.
WORKSHOP
8.    Organize a workshop for technical experts from the various ministnes, and research
and acadenic institutions and present options developed by the study team for comments and
discussions. Option should include changes in legislation, regulations, organizational
structures and responsibilities, modes of coordination, operations, data collection and analysis
as well as terms of reference for an implementation plan for addressing priority issues.



55
ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 14
9.    The recommendations of the workshop to be presented to the government for
endorsement.
PHASE II: STRATEGY FORMULATION
10.   This process should take 3 months to complete. On the basis of options endorsed by
the government, formulate a water resources management strategy for addressing medium and
long term needs for the nation and also define terms of reference for an implementation plan for
addressing priority issues.
11.   Water Supply.
a)     Recommend modification in management of water resources to meet
allocation, waswwater minimiztion, and environmental objectives or to
improve the efficiency of water use Options may include:
b)    Rehabilitation and modernization of water supply and conveyance facilities and
their effect on water use and disposal
c)    New surface water supply and control
d)    New groundwater sources
Water Demand.
12.   Demand management options include:
a)    Technical interventions for conserving water, e.g., rehabilitating urban water
systems
b)    Technical interventions in irrigation including canal lining and improved
distribution technologies, and advanced on farm irrigation practices, and
irrigation scheduling and otier operational improvement to meet crop water
requirements
Water Quality
13.   Options for protecting water quality may include:
a)    A comprehensive program for monitoring point and non-point sources of
pollution
b)    Technical interventions for protecting water quality



56
ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 14
c)    Best Management Practices for controlling non-point sources of pollution
14.   Flood Control. Recommend a mix of structural and non structural measures for
minimizing flood damage in the catchments and flooplains identified in Phase 1.
Ins'itutional Changes.
15.   Recommend changes in legislation, regulations, organizational structues and
responsibilities, operations, coordination and environmental management Options may
include:
a)    Regulatory measures that mandate particular patterns of water supply and use,
including quantitative restrictions and control of groundwater extractions
b)    Regulatory measures that mandate particular quality standards, both to achieve
environmental objectives and to encourage re-use of industrial process and
other water
c)    Measures for coordinating and complementing the functions of the proposed
Environmental Management Agency and the Water Resources Agency for
managing water resources
d)    Institutional changes for implementing watershed and floodplain management
e)    Public education and awareness programs designed to inform consumers of the
real value of water and to promote desirable changes in behavior
f)    Public education and awareness programs designed to inform residents about
the value of adopting best management practices for improving and controlling
land use for managing watersheds and para and to promote desirable changes
in behavior
16.   Humnan Resource Needs. Define manpower, resources and training needs for the
recommended options.
17.   Terms of Reference. Prepare terms of reference for developing an implementation
plan for addressing priority issues.
PHASE III: PREPARATION OF IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
18.   The detailed scope of work and terms of reference for Phase Im work will be defined
during Phase IL In this regard, the following are the main areas requiring detailed
implementation focus during Phase 111:
a)    Developing a plan for and assisting in the process of maling the necessaxy
institutional changes (ie., legislation, regulations, organizational structures and
responsibilities, operations, coordination and environmental management) and
for preparing and delivering appropriate training programs for the staff at the
implementing agencies



57
ANNEX 2
Page 14 of 14
b)    Developing a detailed flood plain management program
c)    Preparing a feasibility study and prelimminy design for principal sewerage
conveyance and treatment systems for major population centers
d)    Preparing a feasibility study and prelininary design for rehabilitating water
supply and conveyance facilities



58
PROJECF IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
OVERALL SCHEDULE
ANNEX 3
Page I of 6
U__                                                 ,1
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 



TRINMAD TOBAWOWAaSWrORVWTtIONALNIRU1WT(G?ESF
ID I_                                            AMI J      IA [MAAI JIJIAI *INID J IJ  ASNIOI ID JIFIMA MIJJ   SIOINIDJMA
I WAmUSOURCES"NAhO4T IThRATRaY
2  dG  iarww        . , :kcs
3    Pbmt:WwstuemAm
-4__
is        FM. M;
S         U     DwbuDwAU                                          _ -
_       A
12   llqer_                                                       _                                                                      . 
_S                         ._.Md                                        .-
It~ ~~~~~f P.M:                                                               ft_                5w  s
is       .z~ub.im~m _.    .wI
,                                                                                 3 Wawqt   ___________ -
E__
2*   PIeJ^uk* I
txjiTT%uumIia    1.1.2_s     -... -2i.                                        _     .s.u                                                                             8 ..
Ddn 0II_                          _         _ _N



60
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
4 4                                                !
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



_            _,i    Ro    KID4DJ lnll|illll  , |A ISIOINJOIJ IFiMAII 1   |  oliSDiJ IFIM|AlMliI I  A|S {O|N1IpJ ItMIAiM
It    B RIABrATWNtPROJIU:WAFAIIM^ID       
2            .bt.i_ _ .    _
S    s4K"Qic  ft
S4   bun.um4rmamanm.ju
Ut d_            _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _~                          -;
16    l **rq _wrfs.   -                                      " f
19 MAMMMTSUP1Ot                                                                    .M 
Il    LOtM kEsdImemi Ad"C ffM%*
10    ,ig_tyrtt13l 'O 
mI PetgmednWm4tsbw                mb
__                          _ __ C                             Ic "t__ 
15 ' M_U    -Cb*toeU@Sw         L                --I                                                                                 1.I'--_                          ,
_   w9_ _ _ _ _ __|1"         |               _ ~    9                                         / -w__                                                                _ .             l
P3Dm VASA EdzmTmtMKy.ugN hfVbmlam                                   ~        to*"                  =m bwt
21w   biim, ugmnld'kt9ad                                        



62
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
ANNEX 3
Page S of 6
U
4~~~~~~~~~~n : aI



63
PROJECT WMLEME:NTATION SCUIEDULES
ANNE:X 3
Page 6 ofr6
*bm.ll                                     1
l 4lil-                        41
_  W~~~



64
ANNEX 4
Page I of 9
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
WATER SECTOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
WASA RESTRUCTURING FINANCIAL OPTIONS
1.    A preliminary financial analysis of WASA's water and sewerage operations under
varying assumptions about the potential impact of the proposed restructuring program has been
carried out and is shown as Tables 1-5 of this Annex. The analysis is based on the information
obtained by the World Bank directly from WASA and from consultants now preparing the
request for proposals for the first stage of the divestment process. To the extent possible, the
estimates for 1994 represent the best guesses of performance and the estimates of arrears and
the level of existing debt service payments are based on WASA records.
2.    The main conclusions of the analysis are as follows:
a)    The present financial condition and performance of WASA as indicated by the
estimated 1993 financial statements and the 1994 budget (modified to account
for the proposed emergency repair works to be funded by the World Bank
under the proposed loan) is unacceptable to the Government It would also
make it very difficult to secure a private sector partner to enter into the
divestment process. WASA's operating deficits prior to meeting exisfing debt
service obligations is estimated to be over US$ 10 million equivalent. In
addition, there is substantial amount of arrears to various creditors amounting
to US$ 9 million equivalent. Any improvement in WASA's working capital
arrangements for 1995 will need to squarely address these arrears. Even after
aking into consideration the proposed financing of critical spares and
chemicals and supplies during the second half of 1994 form the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan, the Government would need to provide for about US$ 20
million in transfers from the current budget, or make other alternative funding
arrangements, including, a possible consolidation of the arrears into a new
medium-term loan that would ease the burden of the rescheduling In addition,
the Government would need to meet the estimated debt service obligations of
WASA, estimated at around US$ 4.7 million equivalent. These are the
minimum amounts needed to ensure WASA's continued operation and to carry
out the emergency works in preparation for the 1995 dry season, when, it is
expected that a private sector operator would be on board.
b)    The working ratio ( ie. the ratio of operating expenses prior to depreciation and
interest charges to operating revenues) is estimated at 154% for 1994. The
financial analysis under varying assumptions of improvements in billing and
collection performance, reductions in Unaccounted for Water (UFW), and
operating expenses including, personnel costs, chemicals and supplies, power
consumption and general overheads, has been carried out under 3 basic
scenarios:



65
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 9
i)    The first is the minimum scenario, that would be targeted on
reducing the working ratio to just below 100% in 1995 (Table 1).
Under this scenario, GOTr outlays to cover WASA's operating
deficits, debt service and potential severance payments would amount
to an estimated US$ 75.5 miliion equivalent over the five year planning
horizon (1994-1998), not counting the consolidation and repayment of
arrears to trade creditors. Under this scenario, performance targets for
improvement in revenue collection, billing and reduction in
Unaccounted for Water would need to be at satsfactory levels as
shown in the attached table.
ii)    The second are two altemnate but realistic scenarios, that would
also be targeted on reducing the working ratio to 90% (Tables 2
and 3) in 1995, at the start of the first stage of private sector
involvement. Under this scenario, GOTT would need to continue its
support for meeting debt service obligations untd 1998. Total outlays
would amount to around US$ 70.6-71.5 million equivalent over the
planning horizon, assuming that the arrears to trade creditors are
cleared through possible debt consolidation arrangements guaranteed
by the Govenmuent, and are then repaid during the next three years.
Performance indicators are as shown in the attached table. The main
difference from the previous scenario is the achievement of a better
working ratio earlier.
iii)   The third is an optimal, best case scenario, that would be targeted
on a more rapid reduction of the working ratio to around 70% in
1995 (Table 4). This would enable WASA to reach a commercially
viable operation by 1997 (i.e. working ratio at 60% or below). Under
this scenario, the cash flow from WASA's operations would begin to
cover its debt service obligations, including those pertaining to the
proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to be used by WASA, from 1995.
WASA's expected cash flow would also be sufficient to cover any
repayment obligafions incurred by the GOT in dealing with severance
payments. Total gross outlays, including the obligations relating to
severance payments would amount to US$ 44 million equivalent over
the planning horizon, not including the clearing of the arrears of US$ 9
million equivalent to trade creditors, for which alternative fimding
arrangements could be examined. Under this scenario, WASA's
operations would begin to attain acceptable standards for commercial
operations by 1998, and would enable a successful transition to the
second stage of the divestment strategy.



66
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 9
3.    With regard to water rates, tariff revisions were approved by the PUC in 1993 that
would have allowed coverage of operating and financial costs under efficient operating
conditions. However, until WASA is able to ensure adequate delivety of water to all segments
of the population, the tariff regime provides for rebates designed to compensate users for lack
of water service. Given the deteriorating state of its physical assets, unrepaired leaks in the
system and operational difficulties, during most of 1993 and well into this year, WASA has
not been in a position to fully implement the new tariff regime, as it would have incurred a
penalty for non-performance greater than the gains to be made by applying the approved water
rates. In order to overcome these immediate obstacles, the Govenmment is seeking the Bank's
assistance in funding a program of emergency spares and other operating supplies that will
enable WASA to quickly repair leaks in a number of critical zoi'es of the water system and be
in a position to fully implement the revised tariff schedule early in 1995. At the same time, by
targeting a working ratio, which would require action with respect to improvements in billing
and collections and to the main elements of operating costs, the tariff levels already approved,
will, when fully implemented, provide adequate cash flows to meet current operating
requirements and make a modest contribution to debt service. The financial analysis shown in
the Attachments is predicated on a progressive implementation of the approved water tariffs
during 1995 and into 1996.
4.    The attached tables show the three scenarios in detail. The main assumptions are set
out below:
a)    Revenue Projections: are based on the 1994 revenue levels adjusted for
implementation of the approved tariff increases of 35% in a progressive
manner starting in 1995. In the best case scenario, it is assumed that WASA
will be able to effect the improvements needed to fiuly implement the tariff
increase in 1995 and that the penalties implied by the rebate system will be
minimal. In the other two scenarios, this process is expected to take through
1996 to achieve.
b)    Billing and collections are assumed to improve as shown in the Tables. In the
best case scenario, the improvements occur earlier, an assumption that will
depend on the efficiency of the private operator.
c)    Reductions in operating costs are expected in the scenarios from three sources:
staff reductions, with implications for the needed severance package,
rationalization of purchases through better working capital arrangements, and
reductions in power consumption through improvements in the UFW. The best
case scenario assumes more rapid achievement of these objectives.
d)    In terms of the financing of the proposed rehabilitation program, it is assumed
that the potential private sector operator will provide up to 30% of the financing
reqtuirement through a subordinated debt arrangement. If this proves
infeasible, it would increase the loan funding requirement from the proposed



67
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 9
World bank loan for rehabilitation, and increase debt service needs, with a
corresponding implication for GOTr transfers. In order to minimize such
transfers, an earlier tra-nsition into the best case scenario would be needed,
implying more rapid achievement of te working ratio target of 65% by 1997.
It is also assumed that the potential severance payments would be handled
through a domestic bond issue that could eventually be retired from WASA's
fiture cash flows.
5.    The monitormg indicators shown in the Table are included as part of the
Implementation Program attached as Schedule 1. It should be emphasized that the difference
between optimal performance, that is achievable under good management, and satisfactory
performance that should be considered a minimum standard for private sector involvement,
will mean a difference in GOIT outlays of over US$ 20 million during the project period. The
selection of a private sector operator and the incentives for good performance should therefore
be conditioned taking this factor into consideration. Table 5 shows a sensitivity analysis of the
various scenarios, including the obviously unacceptable ones. The monitoring indicators
shown in Table 4 define the standards to be achieved under opfimal performance.



68
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 9
TABLE I
MINIMUM ACCEPTABLE SCENARIO
WASA WATER & WASTE WATER SERVICES
FORECAST STATEMENT OF SOURCE AND APPLICATON OF FUNDS
(IN USS MILLION EQUIVALENT)
_______________________________________    1994       1995    1 1996-    1997    1 998
(Estimate)               FORECAST
SOURCES
Gross Operatfng Revenue                                   21.67      35.61     39.83     43.19      47.89
Tariff hneses I Red Tenms (O)                                                   0°O        0%       0°%
Cumulative TarlYIncreases (                                                      0%o       0%        0%
Impact of Tarff Increases                                                       0.00      0.00       0.00
J: Peronel Expees                                         1833       15.73     14.93      15.53     16.15
Chalelcals & Supp0es                                 2.37      2.13       2.17      22        2.33
Power                                               3.77       3.44      3.33      3.21       3.06
Mantenance (Routine)                                1.89      2.91      3.00       3.09      3.19
Adminitrave Overhead                                7.01      6.96       7.20      7.49      7.79
Management Contract                                           2.87      2.87       2.87
NET CASH GENERATION                                      -11.71       1.57      6.33      8.76      15.37
Less:
Emergency Repairs                                          5.28       1.65      0.00      0.00       0.00
Debt Seicer
Prindpd Repayment                                       0.50     11.15      1591      12.25      8.59
Interest Chges                                          4.20       4.38      4.70       5.51      6.50
Worling Capial Changes                                     9.09      -0.37     -0.09      0.16       0.16
NET CASH AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENT                        -30.78      15.25    -14.19     -9.15       0.11
Govennut Operating Subidy                                 19.48       0.00      Q00       0.00       Q.0
Govemment Captal Subsidy                                   4.70      13.97     14.28      9.00       0.00
Local Bond Isue (Other Gvenent Fundih                                8.00       4.20
Debt Consoldation Loan                                     0.00                       _      .
Private Sector Partner Subordiad Debt                                           6.00      6.00       0.00
Proposed IBRD Loan I                                       9.66       5.17      1.06      0.00       0OO
Proposed IBRD Loan n                                                           14.00     14.00      20.0
TOTAL SOURCES                                              3.06      11.89     25.35     19.84      2.11
APPLICATIONS
Invesment Program
Tednld AssIstance                                        3.06      3.52       1.06      0.00
Short Term RehabilItatfon                                                    20.00     20.00      20.00
Restbuc4t   Costs                                                     8.00      4.20
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                         3.06      11.52     25.26     20.00      20.00
Net Cash Suphu (Defic)                                     0.00      0.37       0.09     -0.16       0.11
Cunubltive Supl  (Delct)                                   0.00       0.37      0.46      0.30       0.41
MON ITORING INDICATORS
Working Ratio                                             154%       96%       84%        80%       68Y
Debt Service Coverge                                        03        0.1        0.3       0.5        1.0
Nwnber of Customers Billed                              194,875   204,798   212,934   219,606   225,0
UFW Ratio                                                  55%       48%        45%       42%       38%
hmprovement in Blling Performunce                                     9%        7%         5%        49
Improvement In Revenue Collection                                     5%        4Y         3%        2%e
Averae reveme per customer                                  111       J74        187       197        2
Avera£e qo_usnuption (Lldlcapita)                           490       430        400       370



69
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 9
TABLE 2
ALTERNATIVE SCENARIO #1
WASA WATER & WASTE WATER SERVICES
FORECAST STATEMENT OF SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(IN USS MILLION EQUIVALEN
0            ~~~~~1994    1 995  1  1996  1     I197   1  1M9
(Estimate)                     ____ _ _FORECAST
SOURCES                                                                           I
Gross Operatng Revenue                                  21.67     35.61      39.83     43.19     47.
Tarf Increases hi Real Temns (%Yo)                                            0 /o      0%        0%
Cumulative Tariff Increases (/)                                               °%        °%__   __
Inpact of Tarief I_ _r e_s                                                              Q.0
less: PersonnelxEpenses                                  18.33     13.92     13.90     14.46     15.04
Clhemial & Supplies                                2.37      2.13      2.17      2.25       2.33
Power                                              3.77      3.44      3.33      3.21      3.06
Maintenace (RoutHne)                              1.89      2.91      3.00      3.09      3.19
Adminitrative Overhead                            7.01      6.80      7.01      7.29       7.59
Manageent Contract                                          287       2.87      2.87
NET CASH GENERATION                                     -11.71     3.54       7.54     10.02     16.68
Emergency Repalr                                         5.28       1.65      000       0.00      0.00
Debt Service 
Princpal Repayments                                   0.50     11.15     16.02      12.36      8.10
Interest Charges                                       4.20      4.38      4.70      5.51      6.50
WorkingCapita Caunges                                    9.09      -0.70      0.04      0.15      0.15
NET CASH AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENT                       -378    -12.95    -13.21       -7.99      1.33
Government Operatng Subsidy                             19.48       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.0
Government Capital Subsidy                               4.70      11.99     13.17      7.84      0.00
Local Bond Issue (Other Gvernuent Funding)                    __._ 1.40
Debt Consolidato Loan                                    000                      .
Private Sector Partner Subordibated Debt                    _                 6.00      6.00      0.00
Proposed IBRD Loan I                                     9.66      5.17       1.06      0.00      0.00
Proposed IBRD Loan 11                                                        14.00     14.00     20.00
TOTAL SOURCES                                            3.06      15.21     22.43     19.85     21.33
APPLICATIONS
wvestment Proenm                                     _
Technical Assistance                                   3.061     3.52       1.06      0.00 Q
Short Term Rehabliftation                                                  20.00     20.00     2000
d Cos                                                _._ _                    1.40
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                       3.06      14.52     22.46     20.00     20.00
Net Cash SurIhns Dfclt)                                  0.00      0.70      .0.04     -015       1.33
OCnulative Surphs (Deficit)                              0.00       0.70      Q66       0.51      1.84
MON ITORING INDICATORS
Worldng Ratio                                           154%       90%       81%       77%       65V
Debt Service Coverage                                     -0.3      0.3        0.4       0.6       1.1
Number of Customens BIled                              194,875   204,798   212,934   219606   225,o7
UFW Ratio                                                55%       48%       45A       42%       38
Improvement in BMling Performance                                   9%        7%        5% .      4%
Improvement In Revenue CoUecon                   S5%                          4%        3%,       2%-
Average revenue per custaoner                             III       1741      18,   I197           21
4veruge Conunn n (/dficapla)                     *        490       4Z        .400      371       34



70
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 9
TABLE 3
ALTERNATWE SCENARIO #2
WASA WATER & WASTE WATER SERVICES
FORECAST STATEMENT OF SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(IN US$ MILLION EQUIVALENT)
1994         1995      1 996         1997   1998
(EstI_at_                FORECAST
SOURCES
Gross Opweatng Revenae                                    21.67      35.61     39.83     43.19      47.89
Talflnmaes In Real Tenms (e)                         0_%                                   0%       e0%
C uave Tauff Icr         (%)                                                     0%        0%        0%
Impad otTariff Ineas                                                            0.0       0.0        0.00
kw: Persoupel Ex <n                                       18M33     12.39      12.89     13.40     13.94
Cxemicak & Suppe                                     2.37      2.13       2.17      2.25      2.33
Pwer                                                3.77      3.44       3.33      3.21       3.06
_ Mantenace  outne)                                 1 .89     2.91      3.00       3.09      3.19
Admnstrve Oveihead                                  7.01      6.63       6.82      7.10      7.38
MaCgu     nt O   t                                            2.87      2.87       2.87
NET CASH GENERATION                                      -11.71      523        8.75     11.27      17.91
Lo_            __                                                                            _
ILess:_.
Emeauuq Repai                                              5.2S       1.65      0.00      0.00       Q0
Debt Senie                                                                                  _
Pricpal ReMents                                         0.50     11.15      16.85     13.20       9.5
LItret Chary$s                                           420       4.38      4.70       5.51      6.50
World4g Captal mne                                         9.09      -.098      0.12      0.14       04
NET CASH AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENT                        -30.78     -098      4 12.921    -7.57     1L80
Govenunet p!!rftnSubd_dy                                  19.48       0.0       0.00      0.00       0.00
Govenu(nmt Cpa Subsdy                                      4.70      10.30     12.81      7.43       0.00
Loca Bemi Iu (Other Gvennet Fudg)                          1_ 14.00   - -00 
Debt Consoldaton Lann                                      0.00
Privade Seder Parter Subordted Debt                                             6.00      6.00       0.00
Proposed IBRD Loan I                                       9.66       5117      1.06      Q00        0.00
Proposed D_RD LeJm 11                          _               _               14.00      14.00     20.00
TOTAL SOURCES                                              3.06      18s0      20.95     19.86      21.80
PPLICATONS__                                                                 __           _
Techakd Aseal ance                                       3.06      3.52       1.06      0.00
Shert Tenn R_______D_                               _                        20.00     20.00      2Q010
Rahmebutug Costs                                                     1400       0.00_
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                         3.06      17.52     21.06     20.00      2000
Net Cas Surphs (De"kit)                                    0.00       0.98     .0.121    -Q14        1.80
CannuhtlalSurpls(Dfd)                                      0.00       098       0.86      0.72       2.52
MON ITORING INDICATORS                                      _
Working Rato                                              154%       85%        78%       74%        62/
Debt Senrve Covera                                          03         0.4       0.4       Q6         1.1
N_mber ofCtomea Billed                                  194,87S   204798   212934   219,606   225,07
UFW RatlS                                                  55%       480/%      45%       42%        38/4
Improvement I _lg Peronee                            _     _          9%         7%        5%        4%
I    vema_   hI Revenw Colleco_                                       5%         4%        3%        2%
Aage revenue per aoomer                                     111        174       187       197        21
Averaue C*msunxlo fIJdcavl )                                490       430        4         370



71
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 9
TABLE 4
BEST CASE SCENARIO
WASA WATER & WASTE WATER SERVICES
FORECAST STATEMENT OF SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(IN USS MILLION EQWVALENT)
1994      1995      1996       1997      1998
(Estimate)               FORECAST
SOURCES
Gross Operatn Revenue                                     21.67      42.01     4831      52.97 5-861
Tariff Incrlee hi Real Terms ()                                                  0%/       0%/a       0%
Cwmula0ve Ta__      __       ___ (%)                              _              0%        0%        0%/
SnDa et OTarlff hses                                                           0.00      0.00       0.00
kss: Pso_nnel E    y_                                      1S.33     12.39     12.89     13.40      13.94
Chen_ __ls_& Su _       __es                         2.37      1.97      2.04       2.11      2.19
Power                                               3.77      3.44       3.33      3.21       3.06
Ma_________nc_(Reutlne)                             1.89      2.91      3.00       3.09      3.19
Admhnstrtive Overhead                               7.01      6.56       6.S2      7.10      738
Management Contract                                           2.87      2.87       2.87
NET CASH GENERATION                                      -11.71      11.6     1735      21.19      28841
Less:                                                                      _     _.
E mwrgeny Repahs s2                                                  1.65      0.00      0.00       0.00
Debt Smerie
Prhidpal Re-ymelds                                      0.50     11.15      16.85     13.20      9.54
iXileretn Charges                                       4.20       438       4.58       S.16      6.04
Werldng Capltald h   s9.09                                          -1.02       0.13      0.14       0.14
NET CASH AVALABLE FOR INVESTMENT                         -3Q7        -431      .422       2.70      13.13
GovernnueWOpentdlng Subidy              _19.48                        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Govenmnent Capllal Subsidy                                 4.70       3.67      4.08      0.00       0.00
Local Bond Issue (Other Gvement Fundng)                              14.0  __    Q00
Debt Consoldation Loan                                _     O_           I
Private Sector Partner Subordinated Debt              _      _9.00                        9.00       0.00
Proposed IBRD Loan I                                       9.66      S.17       1.06      0.00       0.
Proposed IBRD Loan 1I    11.00                                                           11.00      20.00
TOTAL SOURCES                                              3.06      18.54     20.93     22.70      33.13
APPLICATIONS                                                                                   __;___
hnvesdment Program
Techincal Assstance                                      3.06      3.52       1.06      0.00
Short Term Rdeabltaton                                                       20.00     20.00      2.00
Re _n_ __t_g_Costs                                                  14.00       0.00
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                         3.06      17.52     21.06     20.00      20.00
Net Cash %burp  (I)De"0) .00                                          1.02     .0.13      2.70      13.13
Cumulative Surplus (De"cIt)                                0.00       1.02      0.88      3.58      16.70
MON ITORING INDICATORS                                 __       ____  _              _         _
Wor_    _       _      _       _ Ratie     154%                      72%       64%        60%        Sl1YI
Debt Service Coverage                                       03        0.8        a8        1.1        1.8
Number of Custoimn Biled                                194,S7   211,413   228    231,092   236,7
UFW Ratio                                                  55%       48%        45%       42%       384Y
Improvement In BiDig Perfonnanee                        .            15%        9%         6%        4%
Imprvement In Reenue Coleein                                          8%Yo      5%         4%        2%
Averageevenuepercudtemer                                    111       199        217       229        2
Average Ctmsmnpton (Id/caplta)                             490       430        400       370



72
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 9
TABLE 5
SENSITiViTY ANALYSIS
TOTAL GOTr OUTLAYS DURING 1994-1998 INCLUDING RESTRUCTURING COSTS
>I.
NO CHANGE STATUS QUO                              122.02i 122.02  122.02   122.02   122.02
WORKNG RATIO BELOW 100 AFTER 1997                        125.33   105.78   81.54   54.06
WORKNG RATIO <100 by 199                                          97.09   73.53   49.24
WORKING RATIO < 90 IN 1995                                                69.48   46.34
WORKNG RATIO < 71 IN 1995                                                         45.87
i                             L      ~ ~~ ~~~~~~I  I  I       j___i  __
GOTT OUTIAYS INCLUDING RESTRUCTURING COSTS AND TARGET WORKING RATIO
WORST CASE SCENARIO: DO NOTHING                   12.022    139%    143%    147%    136%1
UNACCEPTABLE SCENARIO                              105.78   114%    103%    100%    87%1
MINIMUM ACCEPTABLE SCENARIO                        73.53    96%    84%    80%    68%
ACCEPTABLE SCENARIO SATISFACTORY PER FOR           69.48    90%    81%    77%    65%°
BEST CASE SCENARIO: OPTIMAL PERFORMANCE            45.87    72%    64%    60%    S%



rinn
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
,~S2USA                                                                                                                       .~-TPricpa P.t
~~~Q~~~~~w                                                              S~~~~9     National Capta
sIt,,    o&TOUsow                                                                                            To%n-
.                                                                   i          .        -                                         O T
hunmtlawelma Sammwl
*X_d_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  a  OihlS
Cor,'bbe-,n    Sea                            VW_                   ~~~~~~ATLANTIC
-                                                                                             OCEAN
Gulf of Pari                       N
'~~ ~~~~~~                                               ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~  £ diqa,EAN 
ShUmb ',
-                        I U j |
*                      61W                               ~~~~~~~~~61W1                                                       (03
r vrD ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  j..w



