LOAN NUMBER 3784 TR
Loan Agreement
(Water Sector Institutional Strengthening Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                    , 1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3784 TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               JA-          , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)   the Bank has received a letter (the Policy Letter) dated
July 4, 1994, from the Borrower, describing the Borrower's policies
for the management of its water resources and the measures intended
for the rehabilitation and divestment of WASA (as hereinafter
defined) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
such policies;
(C)   by agreement dated May 11, 1994 (the Japanese Grant
Agreement), the Government of Japan (Japan) has agreed to make a
grant (the Japanese Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate amount
equivalent to thirty-one million eight hundred thousand yen
(Y31,800,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Japanese Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.


﻿-2-
(b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defir.ed in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Trinidad and
Tobago established under the Borrower's Central Bank Act (Chapter
79:02 of the Laws of Trinidad and Tobago), as amended as of the date
of this Agreement;
(b)   "Contract" means the contract referred to in Section
3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(c)   "Implementation Program" means the program set forth in
the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith
(Supplemental Letter No. 1);
(d)   "Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators set forth
in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith
(Supplemental Letter No. 2);
(e)   "MOWT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works and
Transport;
(f)   "MOWT-PIU"  means the   Project  implementation  unit
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (i) (A) of this Agreement;
(g)   "MPU" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Utilities;
(h)   "MPU-PIU" means the Project implementation unit referred
to in Section 3.05 (a) (i) (B) of this Agreement;
(i)   "Project Implementation Units" means collectively MOWT-
PIU, MPU-PIU and WASA-PIU (as hereinafter defined);


﻿(j)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the   Project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
the letter from the Bank dated April 16, 1993 countersigned by the
Borrower on June 29, 1993;
(k)   "PUC" means the Borrower's Public Utilities Commission;
(1)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(m)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to
in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(n)   "TT Dollars" means the Borrower's currency;
(o)   "WASA"  means  the  Borrower's  Water  and   Sewerage
Authority, established under the WASA Act (as hereinafter defined);
(p)   "WASA Act" means the Borrower's Water and Sewerage
Authority Act (Chapter 54:40 of the Laws of Trinidad and Tobago), as
amended as of the date of this Agreement;
(q)   "WASA-PIU"  means  the  Project  implementation  unit
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (ii) of this Agreement; and
(r)   "WRA" means the Borrower's Water Resources Agency,
within WASA.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-five million Dollars ($25,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-4-
(b)   The Borrower shall, f or the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a     six-month  period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date  specified   in  Section   2.06  of   this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.


﻿-5-
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
" (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. The permanent secretaries of MPU and MOWT or any
person designated by them in writing are designated as repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)    shall carry out:
(A)   Part A of the Project, through MPU; and
(B)   Part C of the Project, through MOWT;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial,    engineering,   maintenance    and
environmental practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such
Parts of the Project; and
(ii)   (A)   shall cause WASA to carry out Part B of
the Project with due diligence and
efficiency   and   in   conformity   with
appropriate  administrative,   financial,
engineering, maintenance and environmental
practices;
(B)   shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable WASA to
carry out such Part of the Project; and
(C)   shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere
with the carrying out of such Part of the
Project by WASA.


﻿-7-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwiae agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and C of the
Project and shall cause WASA to carry out Part B of the Project, in
accordance with the Implementation Program and the Monitoring
Indicators.
(c)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Borrower shall provide in its
annual budget, and make available promptly as needed, in TT Dollars
equivalent, the amounts required as counterpart funds for the
execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance,
respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried
out by WASA.
Section 3.04. (a) With regard to Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary agreement with WASA,
containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
provisions whereby WASA shall be obligated, inter alia:
(i)    by no later than March 31, 1995, to enter into a
contract, with a private sector operator
acceptable to the Bank, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, such
contract:
(A)   to be in force until the completion of the
Project   or   the  conclusion   of   the
rehabilitation and divestment process of
WASA in accordance with the Implementation
Program, whichever occurs first; and
(B)   to bestow upon the private sector operator
the   full   technical    and   financial
responsibility for the management of


﻿- 8 -
WASA's   water   supply  and   wastewater
services, including the formulation of
plans covering all technical and financial
aspects of such services, so as to ensure
their optimal operation;
(ii)   abide by the provisions set forth or referred to
in Sections 3.01 through 3.03, 3.05 through
3.08, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 4.02 through 4.05 and
5.01 of this Agreement; and
(iii)   provide,  promptly   as  needed,   the   funds,
facilities,   services  and   other   resources
required for carrying out Part B of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement
or any provision thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall ensure that WASA will exercise its
rights under the Contract in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and that, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, WASA will not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Contract
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain, until completion of the Project:
(A)   a Project   implementation unit, within
MOWT; and
(B)   a Project implementation unit, within MPU;
and
(ii)    cause WASA to maintain a Project implementation
unit, within WASA;
all with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿(b)   The  Borrower   shall   ensure   that   the   Project
Implementation Units will:
(i)    review their corresponding consultants' reports
and evaluate their findings and recommendations;
(ii)    arrange the implementation of such findings and
recommendations, as approved by the Bank;
(iii)    prepare the reports referred to in Section 3.12
of this Agreement; and
(iv)    coordinate the procurement of goods and the
selection of consultants to be financed out of
the   proceeds   0:   the  Loan,   for   their
corresponding Parts of the Project.
(c)   The  Borrower   shall   ensure   that   the   Project
Implementation Units are, at all times until completion of the
Project, headed by their respective Project managers, all with
qualifications   experience,  functions   and   responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified staff in adequate
numbers.
(d)   By no later than one month after the Effective Date, the
Borrower, through each Project Implementation Unit, shall hire and
thereafter retain, until completion of the Project, procurement
specialists with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank, such specialists:
(i)    to assist the respective Unit in all procurement
to be carried out under the Project; and
(ii)    to train  such Unit's. staff on procurement
matters relevant for the Project.
(e)   The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
discharge of the functions of the Project Implementation Units.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.06. With regard to the services of the consultants
to be hired under the Project, the Borrower shall and shall ensure
that WASA:
(a)   promptly after the completion of each service, furnish
to the Bank copy of the consultants' findings and recommendations;
(b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
such findings and recommendations; and
(c)   review  and  implement, as   the  case may   be, the
recommendations of such consultants, taking into account the Bank's
comments thereon.
Section 3.07. With regard to the training programs to be
carried out under the Project, the Borrower shall and shall ensure
that WASA:
(a)   furnish to the Bank, for its approval, the contents,
schedule and selection criteria of the respective programs;
-   (b)  carry out such training programs in accordance with the
contents, schedule and selection criteria approved by the Bank; and
(c)   furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each
such training program and the benefits to be derived therefrom.
Section 3.08. With regard to Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that, by no later than March 31, 1995, WASA
contract and thereafter retain the consultants required to assist
WASA in carrying out such Part of the Project, such contracts to
include provisions whereby the consultants shall be obligated, inter
alia:
(a)   to propose action plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the execution of such Part of the Project, including all activities
to be carried out, timetables for their implementation and
evaluation criteria; and
(b)   to carry out their activities with respect to the
rehabilitation and divestment process of WASA in accordance with the
Implementation Program.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.09. With regard to Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(a)   by no later than June 30, 1995, furnish to the Bank a
draft regulatory framework for its water sector, satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(b)   by no later than December 31, 1996:
(i)    put  into  effect  the   regulatory  framework
referred to in paragraph (a) above, to the
extent that no enactment of legislation is
required; and
(ii)    submit   to  the   Borrower's   Parliament   a
legislative proposal, concerning components of
such regulatory framework that require enactment
of legislation,
all in accordance with the Implementation Program and the action
plans prepared by the consultants hired for such Part of the
Project, as approved by the Bank.
Section 3.10. (a) With regard to Part B of the Project, by no
later than March 30, 1997, the Borrower shall take all action
necessary or advisable to bring WASA to the point of divestment, in
accordance with the corresponding action plans prepared by the
consultants hired under such Part of the Project, as approved by the
Bank.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section "bring WASA to the
point of divestment" means: (i) to complete the analysis of the
economic, legal, financial and operational condition of WASA, the
auditing and evaluation of its accounts and the determination of the
divestment strategy to be adopted; and (ii) to publish advertisement
for sale, long-term leasing, contracting of services or granting of
concession, as the case may be, and to issue the prospectus or the
tender documents related to such sale, leasing, contracting or
grant.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.11. (a) By no later than November 30, 1994, the
Borrower shall:
(i)    through MOWT, carry out an environmental impact
assessment for the purposes of Part C.2 of the
Project; and
(ii)    cause WASA to carry out an environmental impact
assessment for the purposes of Part B (c) of the
Project.
(b)   The environmental impact assessments referred to in
subparagraph (a) above will focus on watershed management and
preservation of coastal wetlands and other eco-habitats in the
Borrower's territory.
(c)   After the Bank's approval, the Borrower shall implement
or shall cause WASA to implement, as the case may be, the
recommendations of the aforesaid environmental impact assessments,
as approved by the Bank.
Section 3.12. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, by no later than May 31 and
November 30 of each year of Project implementation, the Borrower and
WASA, through the corresponding Project Coordinating Units, shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review, progress reports
for the previous calendar quarter, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank may reasonably request, on the progress achieved by the
Borrower and WASA in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.13. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower and WASA
through the corresponding Project Coordinating Units shall, by no
later than June 30 of each year during the execution of the Project,
starting in 1995, review in conjunction with the Bank the progress
achieved in the implementation of the Project during the
corresponding calendar year, each such review:
(i)    to be based on the progress reports referred to
in  Section   3.12  of   this  Agreement,   the
Implementation  Program   and  the   Monitoring
Indicators; and


﻿- 13 -
(ii)    to include an assessment of:
(A)   the compliance of the Borrower's and
WASA's obligations set forth or referred
to in this Agreement; and
(B)   the available findings and recommendations
of the consultants hired under the
Project.
(b)   If, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank
determines that the progress in the execution of the Project or in
the achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower
shall and shall ensure that WASA promptly take all such action,
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient
execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of Parts A and B of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
such Parts of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than three months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and


﻿- 14 -
(iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account for Parts A and C of the Project were made on
the basis of statements of expenditure,'the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that such   records  and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Scction and that the
report of such audit contaIns a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause WASA to maintain
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
WASA, including separate accounts to reflect all resources and
expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause WASA to:
(i)    have  its   records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income


﻿- 15 -
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal  year   audited,   in  accordance   with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than three months after the
end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Bank    such other information
concerning such records, accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account for Part B of the Project were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause WASA
to:
(i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts       are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,


﻿- 16 -
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.03. Without limitation or restriction upon other
provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, review the financial
condition and operational performance of WASA. To that effect, the
Borrower shall ensure that WASA shall, at all such times as the Bank
shall reasonably request, provide all the information necessary or
appropriate for the purpose of conducting such reviews.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower, the Bank and WASA shall, from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views with
regard to the Borrower's plans in respect of the overall development
of its water sector and WASA's water services pricing policies.
(b)   By no later than December 31, 1996, the Borrower shall
ensure that WASA furnish to the Bank an action plan aimed at
establishing prices for water services appropriate:
(i)    to achieve conditions of efficient operation at
reasonable levels of capacity utilization;
(ii)    to cover operating costs; and
(iii)    to meet financial obligations.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that WASA will maintain a ratio of Total
Operating Expenses to Total Operating Revenues not higher than 100%
for fiscal year 1994, 85% for fiscal year 1995 and 75% for fiscal
year 1996, respectively.
(b)   Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years until the
completion of the Project, the Borrower and WASA shall, on the basis
of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and WASA and satisfactory to
the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal
year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon
its completion.
(c)   If any such review shows that WASA would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for WASA's fiscal years
covered by such review, the Borrower and WASA shall promptly take


﻿- 17 -
all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments
of the structure or levels of its water services rates) in order to
meet such requirements.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    the term "Total Operating Expenses" means all
expenses  related   to  operations,  including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
depreciation, interest and other charges on
debt; and
(ii)    the  term  "Total  Operating  Revenues" means
revenues from all sources related to operations.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall ensure that WASA will not incur any Debt, unless
the Net Revenues of WASA for the fiscal year immediately preceding
the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater,
shall be at least 1.25 times the estimated maximum Debt Service
Requirements of WASA for any succeeding fiscal year on all Debt of
WASA, including the Debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    the term "Debt" means any indebtedness of WASA
maturing by its terms more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such Debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into;
(iii)    the term "Net Revenues" means the difference
between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations, adjusted to take


﻿- 18 -
account of WASA's rates in effect at the
time of the incurrence of Debt even though
they were not in effect during the twelve-
month period to which such revenues
relate, and Net Non-operating Income; and
(B)   the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to
operations   including   administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
for depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on
Debt;
(iv)    the term "Net Non-operating Income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above;
(v)    the term "Debt Service Requirements" means the
aggregate  amount   of  repayments  (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, Debt; and
(vi)   whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, Debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such Debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause WASA:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with   sound administrative, financial, engineering,
maintenance and environmental practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers; and
(c)   at all times, to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering, maintenance and environmental practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the WASA Act or any provision thereof, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect,
in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement
or the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower or WASA shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Borrower or WASA will be
able to perform their respective obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement;


﻿- 20 -
(d)   WASA or the private sector operator shall have failed to
perform any of their respective obligations under the Contract;
(e)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that WASA or the private sector
operator will be able to perform their respective obligations under
the Contract;
(f)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of WASA or for the
suspension of its operations so as to affect, in the opinion of the
Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or WASA
to perform any of their respective obligations under this Agreement,
the Subsidiary Agreement or the Contract, as the case may be;
(g)   the managerial, financial or operational condition of
WASA shall have deteriorated so as to affect, in the opinion of the
Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or WASA
to perform any of their respective obligations under this Agreement,
the Subsidiary Agreement or the Contract, as the case may be; and
(h)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Japanese Grant shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms thereof;
(ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation or termination is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under the Japanese Grant
Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.


﻿- 21 -
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (d) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (f) or (g) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (h) (i) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(h) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date                 .&/, /9ff  is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided by Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 22 -
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
Eric Williams Plaza
Port-of-Spain
Trinidad and Tobago
Telex:
22450 MINFIN WG
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
Washington,D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 23 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   /
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods:
(a) for Parts A            1,700,000        100% of foreign
and C of the                           expenditures,
Project                                100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 87%
of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally
(b) for Part B            7,800,000        100% of foreign
of the Project                         expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 87%
of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally


﻿- 25 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(2) Consultants'
Services:
(a) for Parts A          7,500,000        100%
and C of
the Project
(b) for Part B           5,600,000        100%
of the Project
(3) Training                    500,000        100%
(4) Refunding of                400,000        Amounts due pur-
Project                                   suant to Section
Preparation                               2.02 (c) of this
Advance                                   Agreement
(5) Unallocated               1,500,000
TOTAL                25,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not


﻿- 26 -
to exceed $2,500,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1)
through (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 hereof, on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1,
1994; and
(b)   payments made under Category (1) (b) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, until the Bank has received
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that:
(i)    the  Subsidiary   Agreement  has   been   duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto and
is legally binding upon the parties thereto in
accordance with its terms; and
(ii)    the  Borrower  has  adopted  and  started  the
implementation of an action plan, satisfactory
to  the Bank, for the clearance of WASA's
arrears.
3.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods not exceeding $25,000 equivalent, under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the
institutional framework of the Borrower's water sector, through
actions aimed at: (a) integrating different aspects of water
resources management; (b) improving environmental planning and
management; (c) introducing private sector operators in the
provision of water services; and (d) separating operating
responsibilities from regulatory and planning responsibilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Reorganization of Water Sector Management
1.    Strengthening of PUC as the Borrower's agency in charge of
overseeing the Borrower's public utility sector, including the
participation of the private sector, and/or of any other agency
designated for such purpose.
2.    Strengthening of MPU-PIU as the Borrower's agency in charge of
overseeing the Borrower's portfolio of public utility companies
being restructured through the participation of the private sector.
3.    Development of the Borrower's water resources management
strategy, including the basic framework for future programs in land
use planning, water supply and wastewater, drainage and flood
control and watershed management.
4.    Strengthening of WRA as the Borrower's agency in charge of
water resources management and strategic planning, including
telemetering activities of hydrologic information, and/or of any
other agency designated for such purpose.
Part B:     Private Sector Participation in Water Services
Reorganization of the Borrower's water sector, aimed at the
introduction of private operators in the provision of water supply
and wastewater services, through:


﻿- 28 -
(a)   design and implementation of a strategic plan for
private sector participation in WASA, including:
(i)    selection and implementation of models for the
introduction and increasing involvement of the
private sector in the provision of water
services, including strategies with regard to
related issues;
(ii)    restructuring  the   Borrower's   institutional
framework in the water sector, comprising:
(A)   analysis of alternative forms of public
utilities    organization    under    the
Borrower's legislation; and
(B)   definition of necessary modifications to
the   Borrower's   legislation  for   the
provision of water services by private
sector operators;
(iii)    preparation of a new regulatory framework for
the Borrower's water sector, including the
corresponding inctitutional arrangements and the
role of PUC in tariff determination;
(iv)    in-depth financial evaluation ("due diligence
exercise") of WASA;
(v)    environmental audits of all WASA facilities;
(vi)    preparation of prospectus and all the tender
documentation required to solicit proposals from
interested private operators;
(vii)    assistance in evaluation of proposals received
and contract negotiations; and
(viii)    transition to private sector participation in
water services, including technical audits of
the execution of the Contract;


﻿- 29 -
(b)   interim management support for WASA;
(c)   preparation of a rehabilitation program for the WASA
water supply and distribution systems and facilities and of
environmental mitigatory measures, as needed; and
(d)   establishment and operation of a WASA rehabilitation
emergency operational fund, for the provision of critical equipment,
spare parts and operating supplies during the period of transition
to private sector operation.
Part C:     Drainage and Flood Control Institutional Support
1.    Strengthening of MOWT-PIU as the Borrower's agency in charge
of the supervision of the preparation and implementation of the
Borrower's drainage and flood control program.
2.    Preparation by the Borrower of a drainage and flood control
program which will include enhanced maintenance and rehabilitation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in Dollars)*
On each January I and July 1
beginning January 1, 2000
through January 1, 2009        1,250,000
And on July 1, 2009                  1,250,000
*     The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective *dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed-price contracts, the     invitation  to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with Parts A
and C.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower and WASA shall use the
relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower and WASA shall
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Regional
Manufacturers
1.    For the purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (a) bidders shall be required to state in their bid
the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (b) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and


﻿- 33 -
(c) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.
2.    For goods manufactured in Trinidad and Tobago and in member
countries of CARICOM, the Borrower and WASA may grant a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following groups:
(i)    Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Trinidad and Tobago, if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
or WASA and the Bank that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in Trinidad
and Tobago equal to at least 20% of the Ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(ii)    Group B: all other bids offering goods from
within Trinidad and Tobago.
(iii)    Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a
country, other than Trinidad and Tobago, which
is a party to CARICOM and entitled to
preferential tariffs thereunder.
(iv)    Group D: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 34 -
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group C
and group D bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated
bid from group A or group B after adding to the evaluated bid price
of the imported goods offered in each group C and group D bid, for
the purposes of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the
smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which a nonexempt importer would have to pay for the importation of
the goods offered in such group C or group D bid; or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid or a group C bid is the
lowest in such further comparison, it shall be selected for the
award.
(e)   If, as a result of the further comparison        under
paragraph (d) above, a bid from group D is the lowest, all group D
bids shall be finally compared with the lowest bid from group C, as
determined under paragraph (c) above, after adding to the evaluated
bid price of goods to be imported offered in each group D bid, for
the purposes of this final comparison only, an amount equal to the
smaller of: (i) the difference between the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which would actually be payable for the
importation of goods offered in such group D bid and for the
importation of goods offered in the group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in such group D
bid. If the lowest bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it
shall be selected for purposes of award; if not, the lowest bid from
group D, as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be selected
for purposes of avyard.
3.    For the purposes of this Part B, "CARICOM" means the Caribbean
Common Market created by the General Treaty for the Caribbean
Community signed at Chaguaramas, Trinidad and Tobago, on July 4,
1970, by Antigua, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada,
Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St.
Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    The following goods may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bi,dding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof):


﻿- 35 -
(a)   telemetering  equipment  and   spare  parts  for   the
rehabilitation of WASA's water plants and facilities; and
(b)   computer hardware and software, provided that the
eligible suppliers shall have established maintenance and servicing
capabilities in Trinidad and Tobago.
2.    Miscellaneous spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods under Parts A
and C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 36 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and WASA in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower and WASA shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower and WASA shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower and
WASA shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the


﻿- 38 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions    of paragraph 3 of     this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date


﻿- 39 -
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
OR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
lor Reconstruction and Development.
FORSECRETARY


