Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2232b-IND
FILE COPY
INDONESIA
TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
December 1, 1978
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /a
US$1.00          =  Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100           =  US$0.241
Rp 1 million    =  US$2,409.64
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)              =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                    =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq m)    =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                 =  2.47 acres
I cubic meter (cu m)           =  35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCM) =  811 acre feet
1 liter (1)                    =  0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)         =  0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)             =  2,205 pounds
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton "dry stalk paddy"      =  800 kg paddy ("paddy gabah")
= 500 kg milled rice
1 ton paddy (gabah)          =  630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31
/a The Rupiah was devalued on November 15, 1978 from Rp 415 to the
equivalent of Rp 625 to the US dollar. The project was appraised and
negotiated on the basis of Rp 415 and the figures estimated in this
report are based on this exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
BIMAS             -  Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan
"Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs"
a farm input-credit package program
Bina Marga        -  Directorate-General of Highways
BRI               -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BULOG/DOLOG       -  Badan Urusan Logistik - "National Logistics Body"
- rice procurement agency/Depo Logistik - provincial
branch of BULOG
Bupati            -  District Officer
BUUD              -  Bahan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village
Unit Cooperative
DGWRD             -  Directorate-General of Water Resources Development
DGC               -  Directorate-General of Cooperatives
DGFC              -  Directorate-General of Food Crops
DIP               -  Project Implementation Budget
DOI               -  Directorate of Irrigation
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
HYV               -  High-Yielding Variety
INMAS             -  Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification"
- a farm input program
INPRES            -  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a rural public works program
IPEDA             -  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
KUD               -  Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
MOA               - Ministry of Agriculture
NFCE              -  National Food Crops Extension Project
O&M               -  Operation and maintenance
P4S               -  Proyek Pembukaan Persawahan Pasang Surut - a special
project executive body of the DGWRD to carry out
tidal land development
Pelita            -  Five-Year Development Plan
PPL               -  Field Extension Worker
PPM               - Middle Level Extension Worker
PPS               -  Subject Matter Specialist
PROSIDA           -  Proyek Irigasi IDA - a special project executive body
of DGWRD created to execute IDA-assisted projects
PUSDIKLAT         -  Pusat Pendidikan dan Latihan Kerja - "Center for
Education and Training" in the Ministry of Public Works
REC               -  Rural Extension Center
VU                -  Village Unit
GLOSSARY
Gotong Royong     -  Cooperative effort by villagers
Palawija          -  Crops other than rice, sugarcane and estate crops.
Major ones are corn, soybean, groundnut, vegetables and
tubers.
Ulu ulu           - Water master
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIAr APPRAISAL OF THE TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND ....  .  .  .   . . . . . .    . .   ........   .   1
General .             . . . . . . . . . . .                1
The Agricultural and Rural Sector . . . . . . . . ..  .   1
The Irrigation Subsector. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Project Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
2.  THE PROJECT AREAS  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...    6
Location .            .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Climate ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ....    ...  7
Soilso.                                                    7
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure     . . . .          7
Existing Works and Infrastructure . . . . . . . . . . .   8
3.  THE PROJECT  ....  .  .     .......   ......  .  .  .  .   .   10
Project Description ... .  .  .  .    .... .  .  .  .  .  .   .   10
Project Works . . . . ..... .   .    .........  .   .   10
Consulting Services  .          . . . . . .      ......  13
Water Supply, Demand and Quality  . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Status of Engineering . . ...  ..... ....  .  .  .   .   15
Implementation Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Cost Estimates .16
Financing.. . . . . . .17
Procurement..  18
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Accounts and Audits ..19
Environmental Effects .19
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Project Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Training  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
Agricultural Support Services . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Operation and Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Monitoring .26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. J.T. Caparas, P. Momal, W.P. Ting (Bank), L. Miranda and P.T. Reddy
(Consultants) which visited Indonesia in June 1978.



Page No.
5.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Present Cropping Patterns ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    26
Future Cropping Patterns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Yields and Production .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Cropping Calendars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Drying, Storage and Processing .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
6.  MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES . .    31
Market Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Farm Incomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
Project Charges ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    33
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    40
8.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION. . . . . . . . . . . . .    47
List of Tables in Main Report
1.1    Tertiary Development in the Jatiluhur Area. . . . . . . . .           6
3.1    Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
3.2    Cost Estimate Summary. . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
5.1    Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production. . . . . . . . . .    30
6.1    Price Structure for Food Crops and Fertilizers. . . . . . .    36
6.2    Input and Output Price Summary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
6.3    Summary of Farm Budgets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
6.4    Rent Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
7.1    Economic Benefits_. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    43
7.2    Total Monthly Crop Labor Requirements . . . . . . . . . . .    44
7.3  Economic Costs and Benefits .45
7.4    Sensitivity Analysis. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    46
ANNEXES
1     Cost Estimates, Expenditures, Disbursements, Allocation
of Loan Proceeds, Equipment List, Unit Prices and
Work Quantities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   50-57
2  Crop and Farm Budgets .58-61
3     Schedule of Early Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    62
4     O&M Funds for Bank-Assisted Irrigation Projects . . . . . .    63
5     Related Documents and Data Available in Project
Files   .  .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .  .   .   .  .   .   .  64



- iii -
List of Figures
3.1    Implementation Schedule
4.1    Jatiluhur Authority Management Organization
4.2    Tertiary Development Field Organization
4.3    Water Resources Organization
4.4    PROSIDA Management Organization
4.5    PROSIDA Subproject Organization
5.1    Proposed Cropping Calendar
List of Maps
IBRD 13783 Irrigation Project XII
IBRD 13780 Cisedane Drainage






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance for
tertiary development /1 on 186,000 ha and construction of operation and main-
tenance (O&M) staff housing in the Jatiluhur area in West Java; rehabilita-
tion and improvement of drainage works and inspection and access roads in the
Cisedane area in West Java; and studies and investigations for future flood
control and drainage projects in Central Java and South Sulawesi and for
tidal land development projects in South Sumatera and Central Kalimantan.
1.02      Studies for the tertiary development component were carried out by
the Jatiluhur Authority. PROSIDA prepared the Cisedane drainage component
with consultant assistance (Halcrow, U.K.) funded under Loan 1268-IND.
Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.03      Objectives.  The major national objectives in the agricultural and
rural sector in Indonesia are to: (a) create produtive employment to raise
the incomes of the rural poor, (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace
with rising demand, (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of small-
holder tree crops, and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's
land, water and other natural resources.
1.04      Role and Performance.  Although agriculture's contribution to GDP
and export has declined during the past 15 years (from 55% to 33% and from
55% to 23%, respectively), the rural sector remains of overwhelming importance
to the vast majority of the Indonesian people in terms of employment, incomes
and food production. Some 80% of the country's 135.5 million people /2 live
in rural areas, and agriculture employs about two thirds of the total labor
force. Except for oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholder
production; there are some 14.4 million smallholders producing subsistence
and cash crops on 14.2 million ha. There are also 1,800 estates occupying
2.2 million ha producing mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil and tobacco.
Over the past five years, the growth rate of agricultural production has
been uneven, averaging 4% p.a., while total GDP grew at 8% p.a.
1.05      Development Problems and Potential.  In Java, the cultivable land
is almost fuly utilized and in some areas agricultural land use already
exceeds ecologically safe limits. In 1976 about 82 million people lived in
Java, which has 45% of the cropped area but only 7% of Indonesia's land
area. About one-third of Java's rural population is landless, and a large
/1  Tertiary development includes the construction of both tertiary and
quarternary irrigation canals, structures and drains.
/2  Estimate for mid-1978 based on the Inter-censal Population Survey of
March 1976.



- 2 -
proportion of the remainder cannot support themselves on income from their
own farms. Outside Java, there are large areas of unused cultivable land,
less fertille than in Java, and other natural resources to be exploited.
While the inhabitants of these islands do not have high standards of living,
they are generally better off than most in rural Java.
1.06      Employment.  Perhaps the single most important challenge facing the
Indonesian Government is to guide and structure the develbpment process in
such a way that the creation of new opportunities for gainful employment does
at least keep pace with the growth of the labor force. The changes associated
with modernization in rural Java are generally labor-saving, so that farming
is increasingly becoming a part-time activity. Modern manufacturing and
services have been unable to fully absorb the incremental labor force. Successful
locally administered public rural works programs (INPRES), may be difficult
to expand due to limited budget and implementation capacity. Future employ-
ment strategy will probably include stress on labor-intensive export industries
and small-scale rural enterprises producing for the domestic market. There
may also be potential for more productive agricultural employment through
increased cropping intensity and a shift to higher value crops and livestock,
including fruits and vegetables grown on house compounds.
1.07      Food Crops.  Despite the heavy emphasis on rice production in the
past, the gap between domestic production of and demand for food appears to be
widening. Production of rice and the principal nonrice food crops has not
kept pace with the growth in aggregate demand over the past few years. To
keep rice imports at some reasonable fraction of world rice trade, demand
must be shifted to other domestic and imported staples, and the rate of growth
of rice production should ideally approach 4% p.a. compared to an average of
3.5% p.a. over the past decade, and only 1.7% over 1974-77./I Improved water
management and agricultural supporting services are essential for increasing
rice yields and production. On Java there remains much scope for more effi-
cient water use, through construction and/or improvement of additional tertiary
and quaternary canals. On the Other Islands there is considerable potential
for new irrigation systems including tidal and swamp land development. On
both Java and the Other Islands, secondary food crops also offer promising
development prospects. For example, there is much room for yield improvement
through intensified research and supporting services, and great scope for
the expansion in harvested area. A food policy which emphasizes secondary
crop production as well as rice would serve the twin goals of growth and
equity as many of the poorest parts of Java and the Other Islands are best
suited to dry land farming.
1.08      Tree Crops.  The Government has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder tree crops outside Java as part of its transmigration
and national rubber and coconut replanting programs. The objective is to
/1  This low growth rate was the result of below average harvests caused by
inadequate and untimely rainfall in many areas of Java and by pest and
disease damage to high yielding varieties. Production from the 1977/78
crop is reported to be much improved.



- 3 -
improve production on existing blocks while developing large areas of new
land for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches has been to
use public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by
local landless families and transmigrants. The estate companies provide a
range of services including planting material, land clearing and planting,
inputs, processing and marketing facilities for the smallholders. This
approach is well taken in view of Indonesia's scarce managerial and technical
capabilities.
1.09      Transmigration.  Transmigration offers substantial opportunities
for improving social equity and the economic use of Indonesia's two main
underemployed resources: Javanese labor and land in the Other Islands.
Transmigration has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations about its
potential contribution to regional development and the solution of Java's
population problems, overambitious targets and weak, uncoordinated implemen-
tation. These problems are now being addressed and the Bank is engaged in a
wide ranging discussion with the Government on its transmigration program and
the manner in which the Bank can assist. Organizational aspects of trans-
migration, the design of farming systems and the package of services which
will support successful, long-term settlement are among the issues being
examined.
1.10      The Role of the Government.  The capacity of the Indonesian
Government to plan and implement agricultural and rural development programs
has generally improved over the past decade. However, future programs
responsive to the Government's stated objectives will necessarily be more
complex than those which the Government has followed up to now. They will
require closely coordinated "packages" of research, extension, inputs,
credit, land development, transportation and marketing improvements. Multi-
agency integrated area development programs in Java and land settlement
schemes in the Other Islands will require stronger field organizations of
Government line agencies and local governmental authorities, as well as new
administrative arrangements. With the more complex organizational require-
ments of future programs, implementation capacity is likely to become the
limiting factor in Indonesia's economic and social development. It is
therefore of utmost importance that the Government continue its efforts to
strengthen the key rural development institutions.
1.11      Bank Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between the
Bank and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed
for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis
to be given to different investments and on the technical design of some
projects, such differences are not profound and are likely to be resolved
with further analysis and dialogue. The Bank is devoting considerable staff
time to various analyses of the rural sector (e.g. employment, irrigation
development, support services and food crop production) in order to improve
its understanding of the needs of the sector and the Government's policies.
1.12      The Bank has been and should continue to be involved in a broad
range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia. Since the first
irrigation credit was made in 1968, the Bank has rapidly expanded its agri-
cultural and rural lending to include support for estate and smallholder tree
crops, fertilizer production and distribution, sugar estates, support services,
transmigration, livestock and fisheries. An integrated rural development
project is currently being appraised. Credits already closed and for which
Project Completion Reports have been prepared (e.g. Estates I, Irrigation I)



showed excellent rates of return ranging from 25% to 33%. Taking 1974 as a
base year, Bank financed projects will contribute almost 60% of the increase
in palm oil output by 1980, about 16% of incremental sugar production and 6%
of incremental rice and rubber. Four continuing trends in Bank agricultural
lending to Indonesia are: (a) a shift from rehabilitation to new development
activities; (b) a shift from support of state enterprises to direct support
of smallholders; (c) an increased emphasis on rainfed systems; and (d)
greater emphasis on development of the Other Islands. All these trends are
consistent with the Government's changing policies.
The Irrigation Subsector
1.13      Rice is the dominant irrigated crop in Indonesia.  Of an estimated
8.4 million ha of rice harvested in 1977, 7.2 million ha were irrigated
or grown under wet land conditions. Irrigation systems cover a service area
of about 5 million ha, of which about 4 million ha are of a quality which is
adequate for irrigated rice production. Java accounts for 60% of the irrigated
area. Average paddy yields on Java are about 3.2 ton/ha compared with 2.8 ton/
ha in the Other Islands. Although irrigation has long been a major feature
of Indonesian agriculture, by the late 1960s, the systems built during the
colonial period were in a state of complete disrepair. Irrigation development
during the first two development plan periods concentrated heavily on the
rehabilitation of these systems. Construction of new systems, mainly to
serve as the basis for transmigration projects outside Java, lagged behind.
1.14      With the rehabilitation of most existing irrigation systems
either completed or under way, future irrigation development in Indonesia
will shift to the construction of new gravity systems and swamp and tidal
land development outside Java. This shift does not mean, however, that
irrigation development on Java should stop. Many of the existing systems
still need to be fully rehabilitated or upgraded at relatively low cost,
and the limited potential for large storage and groundwater should be
developed to expand dry season cropping as far as economically feasible.
A recent Bank review of Indonesia's irrigation program /L concluded that
to expand rice production at the same rate as demand (about 4% per year), the
level of annual investment in irrigation should be increased by about 20% by
the end of the Third Five-Year Plan (1984). This in turn would require
strengthening of the Directorate-General of Water Resources Development
(DGWRD), training and staff development, and an expansion of agricultural
supporting services.
Project Formulation
1.15      In line with its objective of intensifying crop production in
areas served by recently rehabilitated irrigation systems, the Government
has embarked on a tertiary development program which is designed to further
upgrade these systems at relatively low cost and establish good water
control, timely and equitable water distribution and optimal utilization of
available water supplies. This tertiary construction program is initially
/1  Bank Report No. 2027a-IND, "Indonesia - Irrigation Program Review,"
October 16, 1978.



-5 -
concentrated on systems in Java, but would eventually be extended to systems
in the Other Islands. It should be noted that a recent report by the Operations
Evaluation Department of the Bank entitled "Sector Operations Review: The
Agricultural Program in Indonesia," dated August 9, 1978, commented inter alia
that there is still a gap in the Bank's knowledge about the social and insti-
tutional factors related to the reasons why tertiary network development has
lagged. Staff involved with this project examined the available evidence and
concluded that under the circumstances the financing of tertiary network
development in Jatiluhur was economically justified, in line with Government
policy and would not run counter to traditional, social and institutional
patterns. To carry out its tertiary development program, the Government
requested Bank assistance for the preparation of large scale maps for more
than one million ha. This assistance was provided under Loans 1100/1268/1434-IND,
and topographic maps at 1:5,000 scale and 0.5 m contour interval have now been
produced for about 70% of the area from aerial photographs, rectified photo
mosaics and supplementary ground surveys. Tertiary development is currently
being carried out with Bank Group assistance on about 320,000 ha in systems
rehabilitated by PROSIDA under seven previous Loans/Credits which did not
provide funds for these works, about 85,000 ha in the Jatiluhur area, and
about 100,000 ha in systems being rehabilitated by the Directorate of
Irrigation (DOI). Following the issuance in 1977 of a Presidential Decree
authorizing the large-scale construction of tertiaries, the Government also
started to build, wholly with its funds, tertiaries on about 360,000 ha in
systems under the jurisdiction of DOI, about 35,000 ha in the Jatiluhur area
and about 12,000 ha in systems rehabilitated by PROSIDA.
1.16      In the Jatiluhur area, tertiary construction being assisted by
the Bank Group under Credit 514-IND (50,000 ha) and Loan 1579-IND (8,000 ha)
is to be completed by December 1981, in phase with the completion of the
secondary systems being upgraded and extended under these projects. Similar
works for a further 25,000 ha financed under Loan 1268-IND are scheduled to
be completed early in 1979, while the 35,000 ha of Government-funded tertiaries
are expected to be completed by March 1979. Because of the demonstrated
capability of the Jatiluhur Authority to supervise the design and construction
of these systems, and in view of the Government's commitment to the tertiary
construction program, the Bank has been asked to finance the construction of
tertiary systems for the remaining 186,000 ha in the Jatiluhur area under the
project. To keep pace with construction requirements, the Government has
already completed the preparation of detailed designs and construction
drawings for 71,000 ha of tertiary systems, and has requested Bank assistance
under the proposed project for similar designs on the remaining 150,000 ha
(Table 1.1).
1.17      Also in line with its objective of intensifying crop production in
areas served by recently rehabilitated irrigation systems, the Government
has started to look into the flooding and drainage problems which continue to
depress cropping intensities and yields on some 50,000 ha of low-lying land
within these systems. Because of these drainage problems, the maintenance of
the relatively few inspection and access roads had been extremely difficult



- 6 -
and consequently neglected, and the construction of new roads had been
repeatedly put off. The absence of a reasonably dependable road network in
these areas has seriously hampered the movement of agricultural products and
inputs, as well as the flow of extension services into these areas. Following
the Government's request for Bank assistance in alleviating these problems,
studies and investigations were financed under Loan 1268-IND. As a result of
these studies, funds for the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks in the Ciujung area were included in Loan 1434-IND, and funds for
similar improvements in the Cisedane area are included in this project.
Further flood control and drainage studies in the Pemali-Comal and Sadang
areas, where flooding is not only due to local runoffs but also to sizable
overbank flows from major rivers which drain large hinterland catchments, are
included in the studies and investigations component of this project.
Table 1.1: TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT IN THE JATILUHUR AREA
Service area    Design      Construction
…______________- (ha) -----…----------
With Bank Group Assistance
Credit 195-IND/Loan 1268-IND/a   200,000            25,000       25,000
Credit 514-IND                      50,000          50,000       50,000
Credit 1579-IND                      8,000           8,000        8,000
Irrigation XII                           -         150,000      186,000
Subtotal                      258,000         233,000     269,000
GOI (no outside assistance)           46,000          71,000       35,000
Total                         304,000         304,000     304,000
/a Rehabilitation of primary and secondary systems was completed under
Credit 195-IND; tertiary development is nearing completion under
Loan 1268-IND.
2. THE PROJECT AREAS
Location
2.01      The tertiary development area is one of the most important rice
producing areas in Java. It is located along the north coast of West
Java and extends in an east-west direction for about 140 km immediately to
the east of Jakarta. The 186,000 ha to be provided with tertiary systems
would be spread over the northern and southern portions of the area served by



the Jatiluhur irrigation system. This area is bounded on the north by the
Java Sea, on the east by the Cilalanang River, on the south by the East and
West Tarum main canals, and on the west by Jakarta. The 5,000 ha Cisedane
drainage area is located within the service area of the 42,000 ha Cisedane
irrigation system, which lies immediately to the west of Jakarta. It is
bounded on the east by the Angke River, on the north by the Java Sea, on the
west by the Cidurian River, and on the south by the Tanah Tinggi and west
primary irrigation canals from the Pasar Baru barrage on the Cisedane River.
Tangerang, the main town, lies some 28 km to the west of Jakarta.
Climate
2.02      There is little variation in the tropical, monsoonal climate of the
project areas, with temperatures varying only a few degrees from the annual
average of 260C. Seasonal weather patterns prevail with the wet season
(northwest monsoon) extending from November to May and the dry season (south-
east monsoon) from June through October. Mean annual precipitation in the
project areas ranges from about 1,500 to 3,000 mm. The rainfall pattern is
shown in Fig. 5.1. The relative humidity varies only slightly from the mean
annual value of about 80%.
Soils
2.03      The project areas lie on a plain along the north coast of Java.
Alluvial and volcanic soils are prevalent in both the Jatiluhur tertiary
development and the Cisedane drainage areas. Percolation rates of the soils
are low. The soils are slightly acidic in reaction and respond positively to
nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers. The project lands slope from 0-2%
near the coast and rise gently to the higher ground inland. Near the coast,
the land is extremely flat and frequently subjected to flooding during the
wet season. Improved surface drainage would remove excess rainfall and
spills from river channels. Except for poor drainage in low coastal areas,
the soils are generally well suited to rice cultivation. The improvement of
internal drainage systems and the construction of flood control works on major
rivers in these areas (para. 3.05), which would be carried out under the
project, would largely eliminate the drainage and flooding constraints on
rice production.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.04      Some 346,000 farm families and 61,000 landless families inhabit the
186,000 ha Jatiluhur tertiary development area. The total Cisedane area
covers 42,000 ha, with a population of about 85,000 farm families and 25,000
landless families; on average, about 5,000 ha are inundated each year with
some 10,000 farm families and 3,000 landless families affected. The following
table gives population statistics:



-8-
Average    No. of      No. of
Area     Rural            family      farm        landless
Location          (ha)     population       size        families   families
Jatiluhur       186,000    2,239,000         5.5        346,000    61,000
Cisedane         42,000      605,000         5.5         85,000    25,000
2.05      Farm size and land tenure data are sketchy.  Information from
local officials suggest an average farm size of 0.5 ha in both project areas.
The following table gives an estimate of farm size distribution:
Jatiluhur                     Cisedane
No. of farms      Area        No. of farms      Area
(%)           (%)             (%)            (M)
Less than 0.5 ha                60            30              67             43
0.5 ha - 1.0 ha                30             40              27             39
1.0 ha - 2.0 ha                 7             17               6             18
More than 2.0 ha                 3             13              -              -
Average farm size                    0.5 ha                          0.5 ha
2.06      In both project areas, about 60% of the farmers are owner-operators,
and 40% are sharecroppers. In most sharecropping arrangements the tenant and
landlord equally share total production, inputs and harvesting cost; the
tenant and his family provide their labor and the landowner pays the land
tax. The landless population is about 15% of the rural population in Jatiluhur
and 20% in Cisedane.
Existing Works and Infrastructure
2.07      The Jatiluhur tertiary development area is served by the West
Tarum, East Tarum, North Tarum and Cipunegara irrigation systems,/l which
were rehabilitated under Credit 195-IND. Run-of-river supplies for these
systems are augmented by water released from the Jatiluhur reservoir. This
water is impounded by the Jatiluhur dam, a 105 m high zoned-fill embankment
on the Citarum River with a crest length of 1,200 m and a usable storage
of 2,000 MCM./2 The water is released through the Jatiluhur power plant
/1 These systems are collectively known as the Jatiluhur irrigation systems.
/2 Million cubic meters.



is rediverted about 10 km downstream by the Curug barrage and pumping sta-
tions. The West Tarum pumping station, which supplies the West Tarum system
through the West Tarum main canal, has 17 hydraulically-driven pumps with a
total capacity of 93 cu m/sec at a maximum lift of 2 m. Water conveyed
through the West Tarum main canal is augmented by run-of-river diversions
from the Cibeet, Cikarang and Bekasi rivers by barrages bearing the same
names. The East Tarum pumping station, which supplies the East Tarum and
Cipunegara systems through the East Tarum main canal, has 6 electrically-
driven pumps with a combined discharge of 91 cu m/sec at a maximum lift of
4 m. Water supply for the North Tarum system is released to the Citarum
downstream of the Curug barrage through 17 turbines with a 5 m head. These
turbines drive the 2 m lift pumps supplying the West Tarum system. Water
released through these turbines is rediverted farther downstream by the
Walahar barrage, and is conveyed to the North Tarum system through the
Walahar main canal. Water supply for the Cipunegara system is diverted from
the Cipunegara by the Salamdarma barrage. This unregulated supply is aug-
mented by water released from the Jatiluhur reservoir and conveyed through
the East Tarum main canal. All the main and secondary canals of the above
systems have been rehabilitated and upgraded, and tertiary systems are about
to be completed on 25,000 ha of their 200,000 ha service area.
2.08      The Cisedane project area is within the area served by the Cisedane
irrigation system which was completed in 1936 and rehabilitated under Credit
127-IND. Water supply for this system is diverted by the Pasar Baru weir
some 2 km downstream of Tangerang. Apart from the Cisedane, other large
rivers in the project area are the Cidurian, Cimanceuri, Cirarab and Angke.
Rivers whose catchments lie outside the project area but which traverse the
area before discharging into the Java Sea are the Mati/Cipasilian, Cileuleus,
Cirarangan and Cilongkok. All these rivers contribute to the flooding of a
large number of pockets of low-lying land which are distributed over the
42,000 ha service area of the Cisedane irrigation system. These pockets are
flooded annually because their internal drainage systems have inadequate
capacity; existing control structures (flap gates) are inoperative; drainage
channels have been blocked or their capacities substantially reduced by
brush dams erected by farmers using drainage water for irrigation; capacities
of natural channels/rivers have been reduced due to silting, weed growth and
erection of fish traps; and sea outfalls of rivers are blocked or their
discharge reduced by sand bars formed by the littoral drift.
2.09      The Jakarta-Tangerang-Serang highway provides access to the
Cisedane area. A number of Kabupaten (district) roads connect with this
highway to provide access inside the area. These roads are in poor condition
and need rehabilitation and improvement. Inspection roads are also required
to facilitate the maintenance of irrigation and drainage works and to improve
the movement of agricultural products, inputs and services.



- 10 -
3. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The project would consist of:
(a) tertiary development on 186,000 ha within the service area of
the Jatiluhur irrigation system in West Java, which was rehabili-
tated under Credit 195-IND;
(b) improvement of flood control, drainage and road networks on about
5,000 ha of low-lying land distributed throughout the 42,000 ha
Cisedane irrigation system in West Java, which was rehabilitated
under Credit 127-IND (Map 13780); and
(c) studies and investigations for future flood control and drainage
projects within the 123,000 ha Pemali-Comal irrigation area
in Central Java and in the 55,000 ha Sadang irrigation area in
South Sulawesi, which were rehabilitated under Credit 220-IND, and
for tidal land development projects in South Sumatera and Central
Kalimantan (Map 13783).
Project Works
3.02      The project works can be summarized as follows:
Jatiluhur Tertiary Development
(a) construction of about 2,800 km of tertiary and subtertiary and
9,300 km of quaternary irrigation canals, 7,400 km of tertiary and
quaternary drains and about 16,700 tertiary and quaternary canal
structures;
(b) preparation of detailed designs and construction drawings for
150,000 ha of tertiary systems;
(c) construction of 259 units for operation and maintenance (O&M) staff
housing, distributed throughout the Jatiluhur service area and
having a total area of about 10,100 sq m;
(d) local in-service training for O&M personnel and water management
training for members (key farmers) of water-user associations in
the various tertiary blocks; and
(e) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Cisedane Drainage
(a) dredging of 9 river mouths, enlargement of about 11 km of outlet
channels and raising of the adjacent embankments;



- 11 -
(b) rehabilitation of about 138 km of primary drains, including their
flood embankments;
(c) improvement and construction of about 19 km of collector drains,
103 km of secondary drains, 34 control structures, 16 check struc-
tures, 20 box culverts, 75 pipe culverts and 700 other minor
structures;
(d) upgrading of about 109 km of access roads;
(e) construction of about 121 km of inspection roads;
(f) rehabilitation of about 9 and reconstruction of about 19 bridges;
(g) procurement of vehicles and equipment; and
(h) engagement of consultants to prepare construction drawings for
the drainage works and to supervise the construction of works
included under this subproject.
Studies and Investigations
(a) Preparation of a socioeconomic study of flood-affected areas in the
Pemali-Comal and Sadang areas and along the Cisanggarung River;
(b) completion of the feasibility study of internal drainage and river
improvement works for the areas described in para. (a) above;
(c) preparation of detailed design and construction drawings for the
internal drainage works in the Sadang area and in the Comal and
Padakaton blocks of the Pemali-Comal area, and for the river
improvement works on the Cisanggarung River;
(d) preparation of socioeconomic surveys, soil surveys, soil maps and
preliminary engineering designs for the Lalang (180,000 ha) and Mesuji
(50,000 ha) areas in South Sumatera and the Sebangau (120,000 ha) area
in Central Kalimantan;
(e) preparation of feasibility studies for the Lalang, Mesuji and
Sebangau areas;
(f) photogrammetric mapping of the Lalang, Idesuji and Sebangau areas
and supplementary topographic mapping of the 110,000 ha Karang
Agung area in South Sumatera;
(g) preparation of detailed designs and construction drawings for the
Karang Agung area;
(h) provision of one training specialist to assist DGWRD in evaluating
its long-term training and staffing needs and;
(i) procurement of vehicles and equipment.



- 12 -
3.03      Tertiary systems to be funded under the project would be designed
and constructed to the standards developed under Loan 1268-IND. These
include: (a) tertiary blocks averaging 150 ha and quaternary blocks of
10-15 ha; (b) field-to-field irrigation within quaternary blocks limited to
6-10 fields with no field further than 300 m away from a quaternary turnout;
and (c) internal drains designed to prevent flooding for more than 72 hours.
Based on past experience, design modifications were introduced early 1978:
the number of parallel canals in tertiary systems was limited to two in order
to reduce farmers' reluctance to donate land and to minimize O&M costs; and
quaternary blocks were generally limited to 10 ha to ensure equitable water
distribution to down stream users. The Jatihulur Authority, with
consultant assistance (para. 3.07), would design and lay out the canals
and structures; local contractors would build them. This is a departure
from the procedure followed in earlier projects where structures were built
under contract but earthwork was carried out under gotong royong (aided
self-help) by farmers/landless laborers or in conjunction with the INPRES
rural work program. This has not been very successful in achieving a speedy
completion of tertiary canals and structures. Under' this project contractors
in the tertiary development areas would employ farmers and landless laborers
to do earthwork at prevailing wage rates. With the above modifications to
design criteria and construction procedures tertiary development is anticipated
to be much more rapidly achieved.  Under Loan 1268-IND, the Jatiluhur Authority
has already adopted this procedure for the construction of about 12,000 ha of
tertiaries in FY77/78, with highly satisfactory results.  The quality of
earthwork in the completed systems has consistently been superior to that
carried out under gotong royong in other areas.  Unit costs probably average
US$300 per ha and US$180 per farm family.
3.04      The new staff houses in the Jatiluhur area would supplement the
286 houses already built under Credits 195/514-IND. Of the 259 new staff
houses, 9 would be for watermasters, 50 for irrigation foremen and the
remaining 200 for gatekeepers.  The watermaster's house (50 sq m) would
adjoin his office (70 sq m). Houses for irrigation foremen and gatekeepers
would each have a floor area of 36 sq m. The housing density would approxi-
mately be one watermaster's house for every 7,500 ha, one irrigation foreman's
house for every 2,500 ha, and one gatekeeper's house for every 500 ha.
3.05      Flooding in the Cisedane area occurs on some 45 pockets of low-lying
land distributed throughout the area. Flooding of these pockets is produced
by local runoffs which exceed the present capacities of the internal drainage
systems. In a number of cases, flooding is also caused by overbank flow from
rivers with large upstream catchments, which traverse the area before dis-
charging into the Java Sea. Under the project, all rivers with catchment
areas greater than 150 sq km would be isolated from the internal drainage
systems by improving their courses, channels and outlets, and by rehabilitat-
ing and raising their flood embankments. An analysis of costs and benefits
from a number of alternative schemes sized to take care of floods of various
magnitude showed that returns from investment would be optimum if these
improvements are designed to cope with a 25-year flood. The project works
have, therefore, been sized accordingly. Minor rivers would be incorporated



- 13 -
into the internal drainage system after improving their courses, channels
and outlets. Improvements on these rivers and on the associated internal
drains have been designed to preclude crop submergence for more than 72
hours during a flood produced by a 3-day maximum rainfall with a 5-year
return period. Structures on the internal drainage systems would include
hydraulic control structures at the junction of natural channels and collec-
tor drains, and check structures at the outfall to the primary drains/rivers.
In the dry season, these structures would preclude sea water intrusion and
prevent freshwater drainage from the systems, thereby conserving the
volume and quality of water available for irrigation and domestic consump-
tion. In addition, ancillary structures would be constructed to isolate the
coastal fishponds and provide them with the necessary inlet and outlet
controls.
3.06      Access roads to the Cisedane area would be upgraded by raising low
portions of their embankments, improving existing and constructing new
cross-drainage structures and, where necessary, restoring their base courses
and bituminous surfacing. Bridges on these roads would be reconstructed or
improved to enable them to withstand a loading equivalent to 70% of the
Directorate-General of Highways' (Bina Marga) standard loading for highway
bridges. In consultation with Bina Marga, this has been deemed adequate for
all likely loading from construction equipment and the anticipated traffic.
Inspection and access roads along embankments of primary and secondary drains
would have a 25 cm gravel base course and a 4.0 m roadway.
Consulting Services
3.07      To assist the implementing agencies, who currently do not have the
required in-house capability, the project provides for the services of
expatriate and local consultants during project implementation. Local
consultants would be engaged to prepare detailed designs and construction
drawings for 150,000 ha of tertiary systems in the Jatiluhur area. Expatriate
and local consultants would be employed to prepare construction drawings and
to supervise construction of the Cisedane drainage component. These consultants
would also undertake socio-economic surveys of flood-affected lands in the
Pemali-Comal and Sadang areas and along the Cisanggarung River; complete the
feasibility studies on internal drainage and river improvement works in these
areas; and prepare detailed designs and construction drawings for internal
drainage works in Sadang and in the Comal and Padakaton blocks in the Pemali-
Comal area, and for river improvement works along the Cisanggarung River. An
expatriate advisor would be retained to assist the DGWRD in evaluating its
long-term training and staffing needs (para. 4.05). Local and expatriate
consultants would be engaged to assist in carrying out the tidal land develop-
ment studies. Local consultants would undertake the socio-economic and soil
surveys, prepare soil maps and preliminary engineering designs for the
Lalang, Mesuji and Sebangau areas, and produce detailed designs and construction
drawings for the Karang Agung area. Expatriate consultants would review the
work of the local consultants and, based on the data supplied by them,
proceed to prepare the feasibility studies for the Lalang, Mesuji and Sebangau
areas and update the feasibility study for the Karang Agung area. The number



- 14 -
of man-months required to carry out these services as well as their estimated
costs are presented in Table 3.1 below. Assurances were obtained that the
training advisor and all consultants required during project implementation,
including those for the design of the first 75,000 ha of tertiaries, would be
engaged on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank by July 31, 1979. The
consultants employed to assist with the first 75,000 ha should be employed by
July 31, 1980 to assist in completing the detailed designs and construction
drawings for the remaining 75,000 ha.
Table 3.1: CONSULTING SERVICES
Man-months                Estimated cost
Project                     Foreign   Local /a   Foreign   Local         Total
------ (US$ million) ------
Jatiluhur tertiary development       -    2,400           -       3.7         3.7
Cisedane drainage                  130       360        1.1      0.6           1.7
Studies and investigations
Flood control and drainage       218       720        1.9      1.1          3.0
DGWRD staffing & training needs 36           -        0.3        -          0.3
Tidal land development           170    1,730         1.7      2.6          4.3
Total                      554    5,210        5.0       8.0         13.0
/a  Includes engineer and technician man-months; the latter have been
converted to equivalent engineer man-months by dividing by three to
obtain the numbers shown.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
3.08      Water supply and demand in the tertiary development areas have been
examined under Credit 195-IND. The supply to the four major systems in these
areas is augmented in the dry season by releases from the Jatihulur reservoir.
A study of the optimum utilization of the Jatiluhur reservoir and the unregu-
lated water supplies in other rivers in the area for irrigation, power
generation and water supply was carried out by the Jatiluhur Authority in
1973 with consultant assistance (Sogreah, France). This study indicated that
the available supplies would support a cropping intensity of about 190%.
This was subsequently confirmed during operation. Under the project no
additional supplies would be developed, but the improvement in water control,
delivery and distribution that the project works would produce is expected to
enable the farmers in these areas to achieve about 215% cropping intensity.
3.09      Water supply and demand in the Cisedane area were reviewed under
Credit 127-IND and subsequently confirmed during operation. The run-of-the-
river system which serves the area is currently capable of supporting a



- 15 -
cropping intensity of about 150% on the non-flooded areas. On the annually
flooded areas, however, the present cropping intensity is only about 100%.
This relatively low cropping intensity is due to the frequent need to replant
paddy after the occurrence of floods, resulting in the encroachment of the
late wet-season replanted paddy upon the limited river flow which would
otherwise be available for dry-season crops. No new supplies would be
developed under the project but, upon completion of the flood control and
drainage works, cropping intensity in the currently flooded areas is expected
to become equal to that of the non-flooded areas (150%).
3.10      The present water supplies in the Jatiluhur and Cisedane areas have
been used for many years with no observed ill effects on crops and soils.
The water is extremely turbid in the wet season, especially in the Cisedane
area, but except for the frequent desilting of canals that this entails, no
adverse effects on crops and soils are foreseen.
Status of Engineering
3.11      All topographic maps (1:5,000 scale and 0.5 m contour interval)
needed for the development of tertiaries in the Jatiluhur area were completed
under Loan 1268-IND. Local consultants funded by the Government in FY77/78
have completed detailed designs and construction drawings for 71,000 ha of
tertiary systems in the area. The Government financed construction of 35,000
ha of these systems in FY78/79; the remaining 36,000 ha will be constructed
under the project. Detailed designs and construction drawings for the
remaining 150,000 ha to be constructed under the project will be prepared by
local consultants to be funded under the project (para. 3.07).
3.12      Mapping in the Cisedane area was assisted under Loans 1100/1268-IND.
The entire area is now fully covered with topographic maps at 1:5,000 scale
and 0.5 m contour interval, which would be fully adequate for the design of
internal drains included in the project, as well as tertiary development
under future projects. In addition, PROSIDA has carried out profile and
cross-section surveys along the courses of primary and secondary drains.
These surveys have been reviewed by drainage consultants (Halcrow) funded
under Loan 1268-IND, and augmented by supplementary surveys wherever found
necessary. The consultants have completed all hydrological studies, conceptual
designs and about 30% of detailed designs from which work quantities, cost esti-
mates and tender documents for the first year of project implementation have
been prepared. The same consultants would complete the remaining tender
documents and construction drawings in phase with construction requirements.
Implementation Schedule
3.13      The project would be implemented over a four-year period from
mid-1979 through early 1983 (Figure 3.1). The Jatiluhur tertiary development
and Cisedane drainage components would require the full four years, with the
initial contracts for the tertiary development awarded in mid-1979 and for
the drainage in mid-1980. Studies and investigations to be carried out under
the project are expected to start early 1979 and to be completed by the end
of 1981. Assurances have been obtained that the Government would prepare a
project completion report promptly after the completion of project works.



- 16 -
Cost Estimates
3.14      The total project cost is estimated at US$118.5 million, of which
US$56.3 million (48%) is the foreign exchange component. Because of the tax
exempt status of the implementing agencies, the above costs do not include
provisions for local, provincial or national taxes. Civil works quantities
for the tertiary development component were extrapolated from quantities
calculated for about 25% of the area, for which detailed designs have
reached an advanced stage. These were compared on a per hectare basis to,
and found to be in reasonable agreement with, actual quantities paid for
after the construction of some 30,000 ha of tertiary systems on topographic-
ally similar areas in the vicinity of the project area. Civil works quan-
tities for the Cisedane drainage component were estimated from profiles and
cross-sections of major rivers, for which detailed designs have reached an
advanced stage. Similar quantities for the internal drainage systems were
extrapolated from those calculated for about 30% of the area, for which
detailed designs have been completed. Civil works costs were estimated by
applying to the estimated quantities the prevailing unit costs, updated to
end-1978 prices, for similar works in the area. Costs of consulting services
are based on recent contracts for similar services in Indonesia. The direct
costs of expatriate consultants (salaries, overseas allowance, home office
overhead and fee) amount to about US$5,500/man-month. Reimbursable expenses
(travel, housing, field office overhead, reproduction and printing, and other
expenses) average about US$3,500/man-month, for a total cost of US$9,000/man-
month (Annex 1, Table 6).  By comparison, total costs of local consultants
amount to about US$1,500/man-month. The cost estimates include physical
contingencies of about 20% for civil works, lower by about 5% compared to
past projects due to the advanced stage of preparation of the project; and
about 10% for equipment and services. The cost estimates also include an
allowance for expected price increases during project execution (22% of base
cost plus physical contingencies), which are based on the following annual
inflation rates projected from recent trends noted in civil works contracts
for irrigation projects in Indonesia:
(a) civil works - 12% in 1979, 10% in 1980, and 8% beyond 1980;
(b) equipment and services - 7% per annum.



- 17 -
Details of project costs are presented in Annex 1, Table 1 and summarized
below: /1
Table 3.2: COST ESTIMATE SUMMARY
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
---- (Rp million) ---   --- (US$ million) ---         %
Tertiary development         11,160   8,510  19,670    26.9    20.5    47.4         43
Cisedane drainage             5,195   4,940  10,135    12.5    11.9    24.4         49
Studies and investigations  1,495   3,030   4,525         3.6      7.3    10.9      67
Base cost                  17,850  16,480  34,330    43.0    39.7    82.7         48
Physical contingencies        3,105   2,785   5,890       7.5      6.7    14.2      47
Expected price increases    4,855   4,110   8,965    11.7          9.9    21.6      46
Total project cost         25,810  23,375  49,185    62.2    56.3   118.5         48
Financing
3.15      The proposed Bank loan of US$77 million would finance the project's
full foreign exchange cost (US$56.3 million) and US$20.7 million of local
costs. It would cover about 65% of total project costs and about 33% of
local costs. The Government would provide the remaining Rp 17,219 million
(US$41.5 million) out of annual budget appropriations.
/1  The project was appraised and negotiated before the November 15 devaluation
of the Rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 equivalent to the US dollar. The
figures contained in this report are based on the exchange rate prevailing
at appraisal and negotiation. A preliminary assessment of the impact of
the devaluation on the local costs of the project (including contingencies)
indicates that the local costs could rise when expressed in Rupiah terms
from Rp 26 billion to Rp 36 billion and fall in dollar terms from $62 mil-
lion to $58 million. The base cost of the foreign exchange component,
expressed in US dollar terms, would remain unchanged. On this basis, and
taking account of revised price contingencies for foreign exchange costs,
the proposed loan of $77 million would cover 69% of the total project
cost, expressed in US dollar equivalent.



- 18 -
Procurement /1
3.16      Except for eight vehicles needed to ensure an efficient start-up of
consultants' activities and which would be procured under the consultants'
contracts, vehicles and equipment for construction and operation (US$0.6
million) would be procured under international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. cost of the imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower,
would be extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Equipment and spare parts costing less than US$10,000 each and limited to a
total of US$0.4 million which are not suitable for international competitive
bidding, would be purchased through normal Government procurement procedures
which have been found acceptable to the Bank. There are sufficient suppliers
of such goods to ensure adequate competition. All contracts for vehicles and
equipment exceeding US$100,000 in value would be submitted to the Bank for
review before bidding and award.
3.17      The contracts for tertiary structures and staff housing in the
Jatiluhur area, which are relatively small and scattered over a wide area,
are unlikely to be of interest to international contractors but they would
not be precluded from bidding. Drainage works and inspection roads in the
Cisedane area, which would be impracticable to group into large packages
because they consist of small, widely scattered units with a considerable
variety of work among them, would similarly be unattractive to international
contractors. These works (US$89 million) would be carried out following
local competitive bidding, to which contractors who have been previously
prequalified in accordance with Government regulations are normally invited.
For tertiary systems, separate contracts would be awarded for structures and
earthwork. Local contracting procedures have been reviewed under earlier
projects and are acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained from the
Government that: (a) except for tertiary structures, the works would be
grouped into a number of suitable contracts (minimum value US$250,000) that
would enable large local contractors and joint ventures of small local firms
to bid within the classes for which Government regulations require them to be
prequalified; (b) to minimize late construction starts early in the dry
season, invitations to bid for such contracts would be issued as bid documents
are completed, and bids would be received and processed without waiting for
the project implementation budget (DIP) to be signed, but contracts would be
awarded only after the DIP is approved; (c) price escalation clauses, which
are not normally provided in local civil works contracts, would be included
in contracts extending beyond one year in accordance with the Government's
existing regulations and procedures; and (d) for contracts estimated to cost
US$1.0 million and above, documents would be submitted to the Bank for review
before bidding and award. (For purposes of evaluating price increases,
prices of prime commodities are indexed and published by the Central Bureau
of Statistics).
/1 All costs in this section of the report include contingencies.



- 19 -
Disbursements
3.18      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the
foreign exchange cost of directly imported vehicles and equipment, 95% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment, and 65% for locally
procured imported equipment. Disbursements for the civil works, except
tertiary structures, would be at the rate of 70% of total expenditures.
Disbursements for mapping, training, consultants' services (including eight
start-up vehicles) and tertiary structures would be at 100% of total expendi-
tures. There would be no disbursements against earthwork for tertiary
systems. Disbursements for tertiary structures would be made only if the
withdrawal application is accompanied by a certificate from the site engineer
stating that the tertiary and quaternary canals and drains in the tertiary
block have been constructed. Disbursements for civil works for tertiary
structures ($27.2 million) and other civil works ($0.9 million) for contracts
not subject to ICB (both for Jatiluhur Authority), will be made against
statements of expenditure with the supporting documentation to be retained
by the Government and made available for inspection during the course of
supervision missions. In consultation with the Bank, savings under the
project would be used to finance similar additional works in the project
areas. The estimated schedule of expenditure on the project, disbursement
schedule and allocation of loan proceeds are presented in Annex 1. In order
to expedite disbursements, the Government has instituted procedures for
prefinancing contracts through the DIP budget. This procedure would be
available for implementation of this project and should eliminate conditions
which have caused delays in some earlier project.
Accounts and Audits
3.19      Assurances were obtained from the Government that PROSIDA, the
Jatiluhur Authority and P4S would maintain separate accounts for the
project; engage independent auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit these
accounts each fiscal year; and submit to the Bank, within six months of the
close of each fiscal year, certified copies of the audited financial statements
together with the auditor's comments.
Environmental Effects
3.20      The project areas have been under cultivation for many years; thus
the basic land use would not change appreciably in character, although the
agricultural activity would become more stable following implementation of
the project. Some areas in Cisedane which are now marshy or annually
inundated for varying periods would become more productive and habitable.
There is no present occurrence of schistosomiasis in the project areas, and
mosquito breeding areas that currently exist would be reduced as a result of
the project drainage works.



- 20 -
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
4.01      Tertiary development in the Jatiluhur area would be implemented by
the Jatiluhur Authority, a semi-autonomous Government corporation currently
responsible for the execution of all works under Credits 195/514-IND and part
of the works under Loans 1268/1579-IND. The Authority will complete the
works under Credit 195-IND and its part of the works under Loan 1268-IND
(tertiary development on 25,000 ha) by early 1979; all major contracts have
already been awarded under Credit 514-IND. The Authority is well managed and
should have no difficulty in executing the works under the project. Day-to-day
direction of the work would be done through its field office in Curug and its
district offices in the project area. The field organization would be headed
by a Project Manager, who would coordinate the work in the three districts.
Because of the close coordination required between the Authority's technical
staff and the local Government, the Authority would appoint the District
Officers (Bupati) in the tertiary development areas as Subproject Managers.
These Subproject Managers would take care of coordinating right-of-way
acquisition, organizing farmers, forming water-user associations, and ensuring
that farmers/ laborers in the tertiary development areas are given the
opportunity to work for civil works contractors awarded contracts for tertiary
construction in these areas. Working under the Subproject Managers would be
Deputy Subproject Managers (Jatiluhur staff), who would be responsible for
the technical and administrative aspects of the work. The Authority has
successfully employed this type of field organization under Loan 1268-IND,
and it is expected to work equally well under this project. The Jatiluhur
Authority's management organization is shown in Figure 4.1; the proposed
field organization, in Figure 4.2.
4.02      The Cisedane drainage component and the drainage studies would be
implemented by PROSIDA, an executive body within the DGWRD, which has completed
rehabilitation works under Credit 127-IND (now closed) and is wholly or partly
executing the works under seven other Bank Group-assisted projects. It is expec-
ted to complete two of these other projects early in 1979. Since its establish-
ment in 1969, PROSIDA has demonstrated an increasing capability to execute
irrigation projects, and has gained the reputation of being one of the most
efficient construction agencies in the Ministry of Public Works.  Although
some of its former staff now hold key positions in other Directorates
of the DGWRD, PROSIDA should have no difficulty in carrying out its responsi-
bilities under the project with its present staff. Day-to-day supervision of
the work in the Cisedane area would be carried out through PROSIDA's subproject
office in Tangerang.  The field organization would be headed by a Subproject
Manager, a Senior official of the Provincial Irrigation Service, who would
coordinate the various activities in the project area. Working under him
would be a Deputy Subproject Manager and deputies for surveys, design,
construction and administration (PROSIDA staff) who would be responsible for
all technical and administrative details. This type of field organization
has worked successfully under earlier projects, and is expected to work equally



- 21 -
well under this project. The DGWRD management organization is shown
in Figure 4.3; the PROSIDA management organization in Figure 4.4; and the
PROSIDA field organization in Figure 4.5.
4.03      The studies and investigations for future tidal land development
projects will be the responsibility of P4S,/1 the executive unit within the
DGWRD responsible for tidal land development which is currently supervising
similar studies under Loan 1268-IND in the Lagan area in Jambi and the Karang
Agung area in South Sumatera. To enable it to undertake the additional
studies included in this project, P4S would establish field offices in the
vicinity of the Lalang and Mesuji areas in South Sumatera and the Sebangau
area in Central Kalimantan, from which field investigations for these areas
would be supervised. P4S is staffed by competent and qualified personnel and
is expected to have no difficulty in carrying out the additional responsibi-
lities under the project. Assurances have been obtained that the Government
would cause PROSIDA, the Jatiluhur Authority and P4S to be adequately staffed
at all times with competent and qualified personnel.
Training
4.04      The project provides for local in-service training of the Jatiluhur
Authority's O&M staff and water management training for members (key farmers)
of water-user associations in the various tertiary blocks. At present, nine
pilot tertiary units participate in the training program. Under the project
this would be extended to the entire area. Training would be carried out in
the Jatiluhur Authority's district offices. For some irrigation foremen
(Juru), O&M training, using audiovisual aids developed under Loans 1100/
1434-IND, would be carried out at the Ministry of Public Works Regional
Training and Education Center in Surabaya.
4.05      Small- and medium-scale irrigation systems wholly funded by the
Government are currently being investigated and designed by DGWRD staff, but
the DGWRD relies heavily on consultants for project preparation and detailed
engineering of major works being constructed with Bank assistance. A preliminary
assessment made by the DGWRD training unit with the assistance of the Center
for Education and Training (PUSDIKLAT) /2 in the Ministry of Public Works has
indicated that with the expanding work load this heavy reliance on consultants
for the detailed engineering of major works may continue for the next five to
ten years, due to the limited number of trained DGWRD staff available. These
consultants, who are currently predominantly expatriate, are expected to be
drawn increasingly from local firms in 'years to come, due to the inclusion of
training provisions for local counterparts in most expatriate consultants'
contracts for the last three years. Moreover, similar provisions would be
made in future DGWRD contracts. However, although the DGWRD will no doubt
wish to continue using consultants in order to cope with peak work loads or
to undertake specific assignments, the DGWRD is also aiming to reduce its
/1 Projek Pembukaan Persawahan Pasang Surut.
/2 Pusat Pendidikan dan Latihan Tenaga Kerja.



- 22 -
reliance on consultants, and to upgrade the capability of its staff to carry
out various aspects of its work. The training unit has started to make an
assessment of the long-term training and staffing needs of the DGWRD; to
assist this unit in making this assessment and in setting up a training
program and the necessary facilities and services consistent with these
needs, the services of a training advisor will be funded under the project
(para. 3.07). An assurance has been obtained that, by July 31, 1979, a
training advisor, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment would be satisfactory to the Government and to the Bank would
be employed.
Agricultural Support Services
4.06      In order to attain the projected benefits in the project areas,
agricultural support services need to be strengthened. While this project
does not include assistance for any of these services, several ongoing
Bank-assisted programs, such as the National Food Crops Extension (NFCE)
project (Loan 1267-IND), the Seeds Project (Credit 246-IND) and the Rural
Credit project (Credit 827-IND) have been specifically designed to upgrade
them. The Bank is also actively discussing with the Government the intro-
duction of other programs designed to further improve agricultural supporting
services. These programs include construction of village fertilizer stores,
improvement of the management and operation of farmer cooperatives, and
initiation of the proposed second agricultural research, agricultural exten-
sion and seeds projects. Likewise, domestic fertilizer production will
continue to grow as a result of facilities built with Bank Group assistance
under Credit 193-IND and Loan 1089-IND, while fertilizer distribution from
national to district level is being aided under Loan 1139-IND.
4.07      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
the Directorate-General of Cooperatives (DGC) are the agencies responsible
for agricultural supporting services in the project areas. Staff of the
Directorate-General of Food Crops (DGFC) in the MOA provide extension
services to fam'iners in the project areas. Due to staff shortages, the
extension services are mainly confined to farmers participating in the BIMAS
program./1 The NFCE project, which is aimed at reorganizing and strengthening
the extension staff of DGFC and enabling field extension workers (PPLs) /2 to
maintain close contact with farmers, is intended to correct this deficiency.
One PPL would cover about 1,700 farm families. The middle level extension
workers (PPMs) would supervise the PPLs, while subject matter specialists
(PPSs) would support and train PPLs and PPMs at the district level. In the
project areas farmers are already benefitting from the training and visit
system.
/I BIMAS is an acronym for "Bimbangan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan"
which translated literally means mass guidance for self sufficiency in
foodstuffs. It is basically a package of agricultural inputs and subsi-
dized production credit to farmers producing food.
/2 PPL is an acronym for Penuluh Pertanian Lapangan which means agricultural
field extension worker.



- 23 -
4.08      The BIMAS Secretariat within the MOA would expand the BIMAS program
and provide farmers in the project areas with subsidized credit to cover
seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, crop spraying, and cost of living expenses.
For irrigated rice production, a farmer can currently obtain credit equivalent
to an amount up to Rp 37,000 per ha./l The loan is for seven months at 1%
interest per month. To be eligible for the loan, a farmer must demonstrate
that he either owns or is cultivating land and that he is no more than two
years overdue on BIMAS repayments. BRI, which provides credit for the BIMAS
program, would increase its field staff at existing village unit (VU) offices,
and where necessary, build and staff new village unit offices. Besides
providing farmers with production credit through the VU, BRI also currently
supplies longer term credit (three to five years) for the purchase of draft
animals, ploughs and other required farm equipment. The BIMAS program covers
some 70% of the wet and dry-season paddy crop in the Jatiluhur tertiary
development area, and about 30% of the wet-season paddy crop in the Cisedane
area. Precooperatives (BUUDs) convert to farm cooperatives (KUDs) when
proven viable. At each BUUD/KUD, the BRI establishes an office to handle
BIMAS loan applications and repayments. Where necessary, the DGC would
establish BUUDs/KUDs and village fertilizer stores (kiosks) to handle the
increased volume of fertilizer and pesticide distribution at the retail
level. The BUUDs/KUDs are equipped with paddy drying floors, grain warehouses,
and rice milling facilities. Apart from providing these services, they also
act as the Government's rice procurement agents in the village, buying paddy
from farmers and then selling paddy or milled rice at the Government's
support price to the national rice procurement agency (BULOG). The DGC
operates about 250 BUUDs in the Jatiluhur tertiary development area and 35 at
Cisedane.
4.09      The National Seeds Corporation at Sukamandi produces limited supplies
of certified paddy seeds. These are distributed through BUUDs/KUDs at
Rp 150/kg. Most or all available certified seeds in both project areas are
supplied by seed growers who obtain their planting material from district
seed farms of the provincial agricultural services.
4.10      Increases in demand for fertilizer, certified seed and credit were
projected under Credits 195/514-IND and Loan 1268-IND for the Jatiluhur tertiary
development area, and Credit 127-IND for the Cisedane area. Further increases
in agricultural inputs will be needed in order to optimize the benefits from
additional improvements in drainage and irrigation. Based on current BIMAS
recommendations for obtaining yield increments from the timely delivery of
irrigation water, the demand for fertilizer at full development would rise
from its current level of some 43,000 tons to 102,000 tons per year in the
Jatiluhur tertiary development area, and from 7,000 tons to 18,000 tons per
year in the Cisedane drainage area. While the existing fertilizer distribution
system could handle the increased demand, subdistrict roads in the Cisedane area
/1 BIMAS Package C for irrigated paddy in 1977/78 using liquid insecticide.
For farmers using granulated insecticide or diammonium phosphate fertilizer,
the amount increases to about Rp 40,000 and Rp 39,000 respectively.



- 24 -
would require repairing and upgrading to facilitate fertilizer distribution
at the village level.  This will be done under the project. At full develop-
ment, the annual demand for certified seed would be 1,900 tons in the
Jatiluhur tertiary development area and 650 tons in the Cisedane drainage
area. To meet these targets, the quality of local seed growers.' production
is to be upgraded under the provincial agricultural services' ongoing program.
Production credit requirements would also increase after project completion.
Annual short-term production credit needs would be around Rp 11,600 million
in the Jatiluhur tertiary development area and Rp 2,000 million in the
Cisedane drainage area. Farmers currently receive annual BIMAS funds of
about Rp 8,500 million in the Jatiluhur tertiary development area, and about
Rp 1,200 million in the Cisedane drainage area. While BRI would be able to
supply the funds needed, it would have to increase its field staff and
establish new village units where necessary, to handle the increased credit
flows and avoid delays in processing and issuing of credits. BRI has been
gradually improving its services to farmers, and it is expected to continue
to provide the required field staff and facilities. Assurances were obtained
that the Government would take the necessary steps to ensure that adequate
agricultural credit, extension services and inputs (including fertilizers,
agricultural chemicals and certified seeds) are made available to farmers at
the village level in all project areas and assist in the provision of drying
and storage facilities.
Operation and Maintenance
4.11      The Jatiluhur Authority would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of tertiary systems in the Jatiluhur area during construc-
tion. Shortly after construction, responsibility for O&M of these systems
would shift to the water-user associations within the systems. The Authority
would, however, closely supervise the operation of these systems for one year
to ensure that all defects are corrected and needed repairs are made before
they are formally turned over to the water-user associations. To properly
operate and maintain the systems, each water-user association would appoint a
full-time water master (ulu-ulu) and an assistant water master,/l who would
allocate the water to the various users on a day-to-day basis and carry out
needed maintenance and repairs. To defray the salaries of water masters, as
well as the cost of materials needed for maintenance and repairs, the water-
user associations would establish and collect contributions from all bene-
ficiaries. These practices are presently in effect for completed tertiaries
and are generally satisfactory. Since the standard of O&M in these systems
would be dependent upon the existence of properly functioning water-user
associations, assurances were obtained that the Government would take the
necessary steps to ensure that: (a) before the start of construction of any
tertiary network (about 100 ha) a water-user association would be established
to participate in the construction of the network and to operate and maintain
it after completion; and (b) promptly when a tertiary network is completed
the water-user association would establish and collect from its members
contributions adequate to cover sound operation and maintenance costs.
/1 Another assistant water master may be required if the system serves more
than 100 ha.



- 25 -
4.12      PROSIDA would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the Cisedane drainage works and inspection and access roads during construc-
tion. For one year following completion of the project, PROSIDA would
continue to operate and maintain the works to ensure that all defects are
corrected and needed repairs are made before they are formally turned over
to the Provincial Public Works, who would thereafter assume responsibility
for operating and maintaining them. While arrangements for staffing and
funding the operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage works and
inspection roads along canals and drains have been clearly defined under
previous irrigation projects, similar arrangements for district and village
roads constructed or upgraded to provide access to project works are unclear
and have so far been unsatisfactory. Assurances have been obtained from the
Government that: (a) by December 31, 1981, it would prepare and furnish
to the Bank for its review a program for the maintenance of those district
and village roads upgraded or constructed to provide access to project works,
together with plans for the appointment of personnel and provision of funds;
and (b) by April 1, 1982, it would implement the maintenance program on the
completed roads and regularly inform the Bank about the progress of implemen-
tation.
4.13      Although the O&M funding of main and secondary irrigation systems
had always been a Provincial responsibility, the Provinces have thus far been
unable to meet the full funding requirements out of their own revenues. The
Provincial O&M budget has been sufficient only to meet salaries of senior
irrigation officials down to irrigation foreman (pengamat) level. The amount
budgeted by the Provinces has been about Rp 900 to Rp 1,000/ha, with the
balance coming in the form of subsidies from the Central Government. Because
of these subsidies, there has been considerable improvement in O&M services
in the completed and ongoing Bank-assisted irrigation projects. However, there
is further need for trained staff, as well as an increase in O&M budgetary
allocations for the main and secondary systems. O&M funds allocated to the
various subprojects in FY78/79 are in line with those agreed upon during
negotiations of Loans 1578/1579-IND, and fund releases during the dry season
have been consistent with standing agreements between the Government and the
Bank. For FY79/80, the Government proposes to increase the O&M allocation
for rehabilitated systems to Rp 4,000/ha, and is considering the employment
of additional O&M staff.  Assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a) at all times adequate staff are employed and funds allocated for the
proper operation and maintenance of the irrigation, drainage and road systems;
(b) necessary steps are taken to ensure that at least half of the budgeted
O&M funds would be released to the departments or organizations charged with
the maintenance of the systems by August 15 of each year and the balance in
equal quarterly installments, until the total allocated amounts have been
released; (c) to upgrade the standard of O&M services and to effectively
utilize the available funds, it would progressively increase the number of
qualified O&M personnel in the projects until adequate staff levels established
between the Government and the Bank, have been attained; (d) it would
inform the Bank: (i) by December 31 of each year of the proposed per hectare
O&M budget and the staff requirements for each system; (ii) by June 1 of each
following year, the approved O&M budgets, and (iii) by October 1, the staffing
provisions.



- 26 -
Monitoring
4.14      A program to monitor benefits accruing from the Bank-assisted
irrigation and drainage works, together with other social aspects, is cur-
rently being implemented under the Sixth Irrigation Project (Loan 1100-IND).
As that program expands, it would include this project, with additional
required funds to be provided under a future Bank-assisted project. An
assurance has been obtained that the Government would ensure that the survey
and evaluation of the economic and social benefits of the project would be
carried out by the survey and evaluation services financed under Loan 1100-IND.
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01      The project would increase agricultural production by improving
water control, distribution and utilization of available water supplies
through the introduction of tertiary systems on 186,000 ha of paddy land in
the Jatiluhur area. It would also provide flood relief to some 5,000 ha of
paddy land in the Cisedane drainage area. Secondary crops would benefit from
the project, and significant increases in production of both paddy and
secondary crops are expected in the project areas. The projections are based
on crop performances presently attained in similar production areas. Details
of cropping paterns, yields and production, as well as expected changes as a
result of the project, are discussed below.
Present Cropping Patterns
5.02      Jatiluhur Tertiary Development Area.  The entire tertiary development
area (186,000 ha) is planted to paddy in the wet season. Of this about
177,000 ha are irrigated, while the remaining 9,000 ha are rainfed. In the
dry season, about 149,000 ha are planted to paddy and 15,000 ha to secondary
crops./l The present cropping intensity is about 188%.
5.03      Wet-season paddy is generally grown between October and May.
Depending on water availability, farmers usually transplant between November
and early January and harvest from March to May. In the dry season, paddy is
grown between April and September. It is transplanted in April-June and
harvested in August-September. Secondary crops are grown between March and
October, and are dependent on rainfall and residual soil moisture from the
preceding crop. These crops may have to be minimally irrigated if rainfall
during the dry season is insufficient.
5.04      Because of intensified agricultural extension efforts and improved
water control provided under previous Bank-assisted projects, HYV's are grown
on about 80% of the area. Some of the earlier varieties planted were sus-
ceptible to brown planthopper damage. Seeds of varieties resistant to the
biotypes prevalent in the area are being multiplied and distributed to and
planted by farmers in some areas. Paddy yields average 3.5 ton/ha in the wet
/1 Crops other than paddy, sugarcane and estate crops; major ones are corn,
soybean, groundnut, green beans, vegetables and tubers.



- 27 -
season and 3.3 ton/ha in the dry season. The average dry season yield for
corn is 0.8 ton/ha (corn is one of the most important secondary crops and
is used here as representative of all secondary crops).
5.05      Cisedane Drainage Area.  The 42,000 ha service area of the Cisedane
irrigation system, including about 5,000 ha that are poorly drained and
subject to flooding, are planted to paddy in the wet season. On annually
flooded areas, one to two replantings are often necessary to harvest a crop,
and harvesting is sometimes delayed by as much as two to three months. In
the dry season, the run-of-the-river supply can support only 16,000 ha of
paddy and 2,000 ha of secondary crops on the 37,000 ha non-flooded area.
Because of the delayed harvest in the annually flood areas, these areas are
normally uncropped in the dry season. The present annual cropping intensity
in the Cisedane area is about 143%.
5.06      Wet-season paddy is generally grown from October to March and
dry-season paddy from April to September. Wet-season paddy yields average
2.0 ton/ha in the flooded areas and 3.8 ton/ha in non-flooded areas. In the
dry season, average yields are 3.4 ton/ha for paddy and 0.6 ton/ha for corn.
Future Cropping Patterns
5.07      Jatiluhur Tertiary Development Area.  Because of main and secondary
system improvements provided under Credit 195-IND, and the strengthening of
agricultural support services, about 80% of the area would be planted to HYVs
even without the project and the cropping intensity would remain at its
present 188%. On completion of tertiary systems in the area, further improve-
ment in water control and distribution would be achieved, resulting in fuller
utilization of available water supplies. This would enable farmers to adopt
a cropping calendar that would raise the cropping intensity to 215%. This is
based on 190% rice cropping intensity and an estimated 25% of the area under
secondary crops. However, the area under secondary crops may vary from year
to year depending on climatic conditions. Some enterprising farmers would be
able to take advantage of the residual soil moisture to grow an additional
secondary crop with minimal irrigation. In areas provided with tertiary
systems, some farmers are already growing three crops a year. Improved water
reticulation would also encourage them to plant HYVs on 90% of the area in
both the wet and dry season.
5.08      Cisedane Drainage Area.  Without the project, the drainage problem
in the area would deteriorate further, and the flooded area would enlarge.
However, the cropping pattern is not expected to change and the annual
cropping intensity would remain at 143%. With the project, farmers would be
able to adhere to the cropping calendar (para. 3.09). Since wet-season paddy
is expected to be planted on schedule over the entire area, there would be no
delayed harvest; the dry-season paddy area would increase to 20,000 ha, and
the areas under secondary crops would increase to 8,000 ha, resulting in an
overall cropping intensity of 167% at full development. Further increases in
cropping intensity would be constrained by the limited dry-season water
supply.



- 28 -
Yields and Production
5.09      .Jatiluhur Tertiary Development Area.  Yields are expected to increase
even without the project due to the rehabilitation of the main and secondary
systems and the improvement in agricultural support services. Wet-season yields
are expected to increase to 3.8 ton/ha for irrigated paddy and to 2.0 ton/ha
for rainfed paddy. Dry-season yields would average 3.6 ton/ha for paddy and
1.0 ton/ha for corn. With the project, agricultural improvements in water
control and distribution, combined with adequate credit, inputs and effective
research and extension services, would raise yields of both paddy and secondary
crops; as a result, it is expected that paddy yields will increase to 4.5 ton/ha
in the wet season and to 4.3 ton/ha in the dry season, while average yields of
secondary crops would be about 1.2 ton/ha. At full development, about five
years after the completion of project works, annual incremental production
would be 328,100 tons of paddy and 41,400 tons of secondary crops.
5.10      Cisedane Drainage Area.  Without the project, no improvement in
yields is foreseen in the flooded areas, but yields are expected to rise
marginally in the non-flooded areas to 4.0 ton/ha for wet-season paddy,
3.6 ton/ha for dry-season paddy and 0.8 ton/ha for secondary crops. With the
project, the mitigation of flooding would allow the entire area to be cropped
on schedule, while the improvement in the area's road network would facili-
tate the flow of agricultural inputs and services. As a consequence, paddy
yields are expected to increase to 4.3 ton/ha in the wet season and to
4.2 ton/ha in the dry season. The average yield of secondary crops is
projected to rise to 1.0 ton/ha. At full development, annual incremental
production would be 49,000 tons of paddy and 6,400 tons of secondary crops.
5.11      The realization of the projected yields is dependent upon the use
of improved paddy varieties, certified seeds and appropriate fertilizers and
pesticides in the project areas. The introduction of the NFCE project in
these areas will play an important role in the organization of farmer groups
for extension, crop production and water management. These groups would help
in synchronizing cropping patterns and calendars with projected water
deliveries, increasing contact between farmers and Government programs, and
ensuring efficient use of resources and inputs available to each farmer.
Present and future cropping patterns, yields and production in the project
areas are shown in Table 5.1.
Cropping Calendars
5.12      Figure 5.1 shows the proposed cropping calendar for paddy and
secondary crops in the project areas. With the improvement and extension
of irrigation and drainage facilities, paddy and other crops can be planted
at the correct time, avoiding yield reductions due to planting out of phase.
Wet-season paddy would be grown from October to March, with land preparation
being carried out in late October to December. Seedlings raised in field
nurseries would be sown in October/November and transplanted in late November/
December, with harvesting taking place from late February to early April.
Dry-season paddy would be grown from March to August. In areas where farmers
can grow only one crop of paddy during the wet season, two crops of corn, or



- 29 -
some other fast maturing secondary crops, would be grown. With the development
of shorter maturing varieties some farmers would be able to fit in a quick
maturing legume between the wet and dry-season paddy crops. This is already
being practiced by some farmers in the Jatiluhur area. Apart from climate,
the proposed cropping calendars have also taken into account the peak labor
demands for each of the field operations.
Drying, Storage and Processing
5.13      Farmers sun-dry paddy on the roadside and in house yards and store
it in their houses. Insufficient concrete drying floors makes drying of the
wet-season crop difficult and losses from rainfall can be considerable. The
DGC is helping to overcome the problem by providing loans to BUUDs/KUDs,
where necessary, so that they can construct drying floors (para. 4.08). The
project areas have sufficient milling capacity to handle current production.
About 250 rice mills are operating in the Jatiluhur tertiary development area
and 44 in the Cisedane area. Future increases in demand can be met without
difficulty by BUUDs/ KUDs and private millers. Most rice milled is medium
grade, around 35% broken.



Table 5.1: CROPPING PATTERNS, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
Present                  Future without pro ect               Future with project /a
Area      Yield    Production   Area        Yield    Production   Area         Yield    Production
(ha)    (ton/ha)      (ton)       (ha)    (ton/ha)      (ton)        (ha)     (ton/ha)     (ton)
------------------------- Jatiluhur Tertiary Development --------------------------------…-
Wet Season
Irrigated paddy /b    177,000        3.5      619,500    177,000        3.8      672,000     186,000      4.5      837,000
Rainfed paddy             9,000       1.8       16,200       9,000      2.0       18,000
Dry Season
Irrigated paddy /b    149,000        3.3      491,700    149,000        3.6      536,400    167,000        4.3      718,000
Corn /c                  15,000      0.8        12,000      15,000      1.0       15,000      47,000       1.2       56,400
Total                350,000                           350,,000                           400,000
Cropping intensity (Z)         188                               188                                215
Present                                          Future without project___                        Future with project /a
Flooded                   Nonflooded__                     Flooded                   Nonflooded
Area  Yield   Production   Area  Yield  Production   Area  Yield   Production   Area  Yield  Production   Area  Yield  Production
(ha) (ton/ha)   (ton)         (ha) (ton/ha)  (ton)         (ha) (ton/ha)    (ton)        (ha) (ton/ha)  (ton)         (ha) (ton/ha)  (ton)
-----------------------------------------------------------  Cisedane Drainage ----------------------------------------------------
Wet Season
Irrigated paddy /b    5,000    2.0         10,000    37,000   3.8    140,600   5,000    2.0           10,000    37,000   4.0    148,000   42,000   4.3           180,600
Dry Season
Irrigated paddy /b          -       -           -    16,000   3.4        54,400         -      -            -    16,000   3.6        57,600   20,000   4.2        84,000
Corn /c                     -       -            -     2,000   0.6         1,200        -       -           -      2,000   0.8        1,600    8,000   1.0         8,000
Total                5,000                         55,000                       5,000                         55 ,00                       7-0000
Cropping intensity (%)                           143                                                        143                                                         167
/a  In 1985 for Tertiary Development and 1986 for Cisedane.
/b Yield and production figures for paddy at 14% moisture.
/c  Represents a group of secondary crops, including soybean, groundnut, green beans, vegetables, and tubers.



6. MIARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCONIES AND PROJECT CHARGES
Market Prospects
6.01      Indonesian rice production has been unable to satisfy demand for
many decades. From 1969 to 1976 imports ranged between 0.5 and 1.3 million
tons. In 1977/78 imports rose to about 2.3 million tons; however because of
an excellent 1977/78 harvest, it has recently been reported that imports
during 1978/79 are expected to be no greater than 1 million tons. Rice-
oriented policies have been a major element of the Government's development
strategy in Repelita I and II (1969/70 to 1973/74 and 1978/79) and continue
to receive very high priority. As a result of the heavy investments aimed at
increasing the domestic supply of rice, production is expected to grow at
between 3% and 3.5% p.a. to 1985; this however would still imply an average
annual rice deficit of 2 to 3 million tons in 1985 (10% to 15% of the
total production)./l Continuation of high investment rates over the next ten
years could reduce the average expected annual deficit to 2 million tons in
1990./1 Marketing prospects for paddy should therefore remain eminently
favorable in the future.
6.02      Much of the incremental rice production in Jatiluhur and Cisedane
would be consumed at the farm level, while the surplus to local requirements
would be marketed in the Jakarta urban area. Secondary crop production would
mainly be marketed locally.
6.03      Farmers sell their surplus paddy production mainly to private dealers
and millers and to cooperatives. The Government's rice procurement authority
(BULOG/ DOLOG) maintains a floor price for paddy in the project areas, and
the BUUD/KUD, its agent in the villages, buys paddy directly from farmers.
The price at which BULOG will purchase rice is currently Rp 74 (US$0.17)/kg
for 14% moist paddy at the village. Although prices on the open market are
usually higher than the floor price during nonharvest periods, farmers are
often forced to sell their paddy below the floor prices during the wet-season
harvest. This is due in some instances to inadequate facilities which
prevent paddy from being dried to the required 14% moisture content standard.
In other cases, farmers are forced to sell their paddy on the open market at
a discount because BUUD/KUDs exhaust their credit lines from BULOG and are
unable to obtain cash to pay the farmers, who need immediate cash to meet tax
payments or to pay off the last season's debts so that they can purchase
inputs for the new season. Most farmers sell paddy with about 18-20% moisture
content and up to 10% impurities. Practically all farmers have to sell some
paddy immediately after harvest to meet their debts, even if they have to
repurchase rice later for consumption. BULOG, through its subsidiary DOLOG,
also maintains rice and paddy storage facilities at the provincial level.
Farmers sell their secondary crop production in village and subdistrict
markets. Facilities at these markets are being upgraded where necessary
under the INPRES program. Some BUUD/KUDs are disseminating information on
market prices to their members.
/1 "Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops", Bank draft report, June 1978.



- 32 -
Prices
6.04      For both the farm budget and economic analysis, farm inputs and
outputs have been valued at end-1978 prices. For rice, corn and fertilizers,
these prices were derived from the Bank's Commodity Division's forecasts for
world market prices, and adjusted for transportation costs. The remaining
inputs not traded on the international market have been expressed in terms
of actual farmgate prices. Only an estimated 10% of rice production from the
project areas would be milled into high grade rice (5% brokens); 60% would be
medium-grade (25-35% brokens); and 30% would be low-grade (42%). Using this
quality mix and the world market price forecasts, the equivalent economic
farmgate price for paddy would rise from US$163/ton in 1979 to US$207/ton in
1990 (in terms of end-1978 constant dollars) in the project areas. Histor-
ically, the Government has followed a policy of keeping consumer food prices
low by selling imported rice below its cost and keeping domestic floor prices
low. To mitigate the effect of this policy on farm income, the Government
has simultaneously subsidized fertilizer and pesticide. In 1974-75, however,
the Government substantially raised domestic paddy prices to encourage rice
production. This change in policy, combined with the fall of world prices
from the record levels of 1973-74, brought farm-gate prices fairly close to
world market levels. Thus, the floor price for paddy was Rp 70/kg in mid-
1978,/l as compared with an imputed economic price of Rp 80/kg. It is
estimated that sub-standard cleaning and drying and market imperfections are
presently reflected in a financial farm-gate paddy price averaging Rp 60/kg
in the project area. Assuming the continuation of these imperfections,
the financial farm-gate price would be around Rp 75/kg in 1990. Similarly,
the price of fertilizers (both urea and TSP) would rise from Rp 70/kg in 1979
to Rp 88/kg in 1990 (in end-1978 prices). Table 6.2 gives all present and
future prices used in the farm budgets and economic analyses.
Farm Incomes
6.05      For farm income analysis of tertiary development in Jatiluhur, farm
models have been prepared for three typical farm sizes (0.2, 0.4 and 1.5 ha).
For the drainage project in Cisedane, one representative farm has been
considered for the flooded conditions and one for the non-flooded conditions,
both of 0.5 ha. Details of the estimated incomes for different farm sizes
are presented in Annex 2, Table 4. Land use and cropping patterns for the
present conditions broadly reflect averages for cultivated lands in the
project areas. For the analyses, corn represents a composite grouping of
secondary crops. Farm budgets are calculated according to cash flows. Labor
costs include only hired and harvest labor, not farm family labor, and were
determined for non-harvest periods by calculating the excess of total monthly
labor requirements over an estimated 40 man-days of family labor per farm per
month. Hired farm labor is costed at Rp 400/day. At present annual land
taxes (IPEDA) average Rp 7,000/ha in Jatiluhur and Rp 3,500/ha in Cisedane.
At full development they would reach an estimated Rp 13,000/ha in Jatiluhur
/1 For 1978/79 it was raised to Rp 74/kg paddy.



- 33 -
and Rp 8,000/ha at Cisedane. With the project, farmers would also contribute
a charge for the operations and maintenance of tertiary and quarternary
systems. This may amount to about Rp 3,500/ha. Sharecropping is extensive
in both project areas, and farm incomes have been calculated for both owner-
operators and sharecroppers. Except for the landlord paying the land tax,
and the sharecropper and his family providing the labor, the landlord and
sharecropper generally equally divide gross production less harvesting and
other production costs. Farm families in both areas also earn considerable
off-farm income from either skilled (carpentry, stone masonry, local public
official) or unskilled work, and from roadside trading. Based on farmer
interviews in the project areas, off-farm family earnings have been estimated
for the present and for the future with the project.
6.06      No reliable income data are available for the landless laborers
who live in the project areas. However, assuming two full-time workers
per family; an average wage rate of Rp 300/day; and 200 work days/year/worker,
the annual income of a landless family can be no more than Rp 120,000 or
US$290. Since employment opportunities are limited, many families probably
earn less. Benefits expected to accrue both to farm families and to landless
laborers under the project are discussed in para. 7.01.
Project Charges
6.07      Irrigators in Indonesia pay a land tax (IPEDA) and, depending on
the intensity of on-farm irrigation development, water charges for the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below the secondary
turn-out. IPEDA is collected by village head, and turned over to local and
provincial administrations for use in public services. However, it can be
considered a direct project tax which contributes towards the operation and
maintenance, plus capital repayments, of the main irrigation system. Since
IPEDA is assessed as a percentage of the value of production, the amounts
collected would increase as crop yields rise in response to the project. A
Government inter-ministerial committee has recommended that part of this
increase in IPEDA should be used to cover annual operating and maintenance
costs of the irrigation works that were rehabilitated or constructed.
Additionally, as a result of a Government decision to tie disbursements under
its local infrastructure development program (INPRES) to IPEDA collection
peformance, IPEDA collection rates have improved markedly. At present, up to
10% of the IPEDA rate is used for O&M of the main and secondary systems. The
Central Government, however, provides the balance of funds (90% or more), in
the form of subsidies to the Provinces. To ease the burden on the Central
Government, the Government is considering ways of increasing O&M funding. To
this end, assurances were obtained that by June 30, 1980, the Government
would prepare and furnish to the Bank for comment, a study to: (a) determine
the level of funds necessary to ensure adequate operation and maintenance of
irrigation systems financed by the Bank and the Association; (b) investigate
sources of funds and mechanisms to ensure timely availability of such funds;
and (c) recommend appropriate levels of direct and indirect contributions
including, among others, IPEDA contributions from the beneficiaries of
irrigation.



- 34 -
6.08      Water-user associations at the tertiary canal level in Indonesia
have traditionally contributed a portion of their crop to the water master
(ulu-ulu), or he has received the use of an area of village rice land in
payment for his services. As tertiary and quaternary canal and drain develo-
ment has occurred under Bank-assisted irrigation projects, the irrigators
have increased their contributions to cover all operation and maintenance
costs of the tertiary/quaternary unit. The amount of this water charge
varies according to the degree of development of the tertiary unit. Present
and expected future levels of IPEDA and water charges are as follows both
project areas (in constant end-1978 prices):
PROJECT CHARGES AVERAGED OVER PROJECT AREAS
Present /a With project /b Increment
…----------- (Rp/ha)/c  -------------
Jatiluhur
IPEDA                     7,000         13,000           6,000
Water charges               500          4,000           3,500
Total                7,500         17,000           9,500
Cisedane /d
IPEDA                     2,000          8,000           6,000
Water charges               -            1,500           1,500
Total                2,000          9,500           7,500
/a  Present and future "without project" charges would remain
the same.
/b  With project refers to full agricultural development (1986).
/c  In constant end-1978 prices.
/d  Inundated areas only.
6.09      Assurances have been obtained that, following completion of project
works, the Government would, through the IPEDA, establish and collect charges
on irrigable agricultural land (or on users of the land) serviced by the
irrigation systems rehabilitated, constructed or modified under the project.
The charges would be at levels to (a) cover the cost of sound O&M necessary
to provide irrigation and drainage for the land; and (b) recover over the
useful life of the irrigation system a reasonable portion of the capital
expenditures attributable to such system, consistent with the capability of



- 35 -
the beneficiaries to pay. The operation and maintenance costs and capital
expenditures for facilities and services which are common also to other water
uses shall be apportioned among the various users in an equitable manner.
Once every two years the Government will furnish to the Bank for its comments
the IPEDA rates established and collected for all classes of irrigable
agricultural land.
6.10      In determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of
project charges to project benefits, direct cost and rent recovery indices
have been calculated. The direct cost recovery /1 indices are 71% for the
Jatiluhur tertiary development subproject and 3% for the Cisedane drainage
subproject. The cost recovery is appropriate for tertiary development, but
is low for Cisedane, due to the fact that it would not be possible to levy
project charges on farmers in areas not subjected to flooding but who would
benefit from road improvements. Direct rent recovery indices were calculated
for owner-operators and sharecroppers and for 0.2 ha, 0.4 ha and 1.5 ha
flooded and non-flooded farms in Cisedane (Table 6.4). Tertiary development
rent recovery indices would vary from 9% to 24%, whereas in Cisedane they are
7% and 3% for owner-operators and sharecroppers of flooded farms, and nil for
non-flooded farms where benefits are indirect. Although these recovery
indices are low, farmers in these areas are poor.
6.11      Besides project charges, farmers and sharecroppers would pay some
10% of gross production in village taxes, and contribute to the social life
of the village through religious taxes, compulsory feasts and by allowing
village members to participate in the harvest. While farmers benefitting from
improved irrigation are better off than others, in particular dryland farmers,
their incomes are already low. Some 90% of farmers in the project area have
per capita incomes less than the absolute poverty level (about US$130 per
capita per annum).
/1 Ratio of present value of incremental revenue (IPEDA and water charges)
to present value of incremental financial costs, both calculated at 10%
discount rate.



- 36 -
Table 6.1: PRICE STRUCTURE FOR FOOD CROPS AND FERTILIZERS
Food crop and                                  1979                    1989
Fertilizer prices /a                 '000 Rp/ton  US$/ton   '000 Rp/ton  US$/ton
Rice
Export price, Thai, 5% broken,
f.o.b. Bangkok                       168.6        344          215.1        439
Quality adjustment /b                  122.2         249         156.0        318
Ocean freight and insurance              9.8          20           9.8         20
Port handling, storage and
transport to wholesaler                4.3           9           4.3          9
Handling, transport mill to
wholesaler                            -2.7          -6          -2.7         -6
Rice ex-mill, project area             133.6         272         167.4        341
Paddy equivalent (63% recovery)         84.2         172         105.5        215
Milling cost less value of
by-product                            -2.0         -4           -2.0         -4
Drying and cleaning                     -1.5          -3          -1.5         -3
Handling, transport to mill             -1.0          -2          -1.0         -2
Farm-gate price of paddy                79.7         163         101.0        207
Corn
Export price, f.o.b.
US gulf ports                         66.6         136          76.0        155
Ocean freight and insurance               7.8         16           7.8         16
Port handling                             3.1          6           3.1           6
Corn price, on trucks                    77.5        158          86.9        177
Transport, wholesalers to wharf         -3.9          -8          -3.9         -8
Transport, farm to wholesalers          -2.2          -4          -2.2         -4
Farm-gate price                         71.4         146          80.8        165
Urea
World export price, f.o.b.
Europe                                76.0        155          103.1        210
Ex-factory price, Palembang /c          83.3         170         110.3        225
Handling and distribution to
retail level                          21.0         43           21.0         43
Transport to farm                         1.1          2           1.1          2
Farm-gate price                        105.4         215         132.4        270
TSP
World export price, f.o.b.
Florida                               60.8        124           86.7        177
Ocean freight and insurance              10.8         22          10.8         22
Handling, distribution to
retail level                          21.0         43          21.0          43
Transport to farm                         1.1          2           1.1          2
Farm-gate price                         93.7         191         119.6        244
/a  Calculated at a shadow exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 490.
/b  Assumed rice milling standards:  10% high quality (5% brokens);
60% medium grade (25-35% brokens); 30% lower quality (42% brokens).
The resulting conversion factor applied to high quality rice is
0.725.
/c  Indonesian urea sells in Asia and enjoys a transport premium over
European exports estimated at US$15 per ton.



- 37 -
Table 6.2: INPUT AND OUTPUT PRICE SUMMARY
1979                    1989
Financial   Economic   Financial   Economic
Crops (Rp/kg)
Paddy                                  60           80          75          101
Corn                                   40           71          55          91
Seeds (Rp/kg)
Rice -  local                          60           80          70          101
HVY                          150          160         160          200
Corn                                   40           55          55           75
Fertilizer (Rp/kg)
Urea                                   70          105          88          132
TSP                                    70           94          88          120
Other Inputs
Zinc phosphide (Rp/kg)             2,300        2,700       2,300        2,700
Agrochemicals (Rp/l)                 900        4,100          900       4,100
Animal labor (Rp/day)               1,000        1,000      1,000         1,000
Farm Labor (Rp/man-day) /a
Land preparation                      600          300         600          300
Planting                              400          200         400          200
Crop management                      400           200        400          200
Harvesting                       600-1,500         300     750-2,400        300
/a Except for harvest, female labor usually earns half the amounts shown.



Table 6.3:  SUMMARY OF FARM BUDGETS
Crop Income      Off-farm Income  Total Farm Income   Per Capita Income
Family    Present  Future   Present  Future   Present  Future          Present  Future
Farm   type             size      -----------------------  (Rp'000)   -------------------      ----   (US$)    ----
Jatiluhur Tertiary Development
0.2 ha                5.5         55        95        70       70        125       165         55        70
30       50        70        70       100       120         40        50
0.4 ha                5.5        100       175        60       60        160       235         70       100
50       90        60        60       110       150         50        65
1.5 ha                5.5        360       645       40        40        400       685        175       300
185      330        40        40       225       370        100       160
Cisedane Drainage
Flooded farm          5.5         35       165        60       60         95       215         40        95             X
20       85        60        60        80       145         35        65
Nonflooded farm       5.5        110       165        60       60        170       215         75        95
55       85        60        60       115       145         50        65
Note:  All income date are rounded to the nearest Rp 5,000 and US$5.  For each farm type, the top line
refers to owner-operator, the second line to sharecroppers.



Table 6.4: RENT RECOVERY
(Rp '000)
JATILUHUR TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT                                      CISEDANE DRAINAGE
0.2 ha Farm           0.4 ha Farm             1.5 ha Farm            Flooded Farm        Non-flooded Farm
Owner-      Share-    Owner-       Share-    Owner-        Share-    Owner-        Share-    Owner-    Share-
Incremental values                        operator   cropper   operator   cropper   operator   cropper   operator   cropper   operator  cropper
Gross value of production                     32         16         52          26          219         110        167          84         32         16
Less:  Cash production costs                   7          4         11            6          43          22         28          14         10           5
Harvesting costs                       3          1          6            3          27/a         13/a       20         10          4           2
Equals:  Net cash income                      22         11         35           17         149          75         119         60         18           9
Less:  Imputed value of
family labor                         3          3          2           2           11          11           9          9          6          5
Imputed value of management            1          1          2            1           7            4          6          3           1          0
Allowance for risk                     6          3          10           5          44           22         33         17           6          3
General taxes                          3          2           5           2          19           10         15          7           3          1
Equals:  Project rent                          9          2         16            7          68          28          56         24          2           0
Rent as % of net cash income                  41         18         46           41          46          37          47         40         11           0
Land tax                                       I          -          2            -           9           -           3          -          0           0
Water charge (O&M)                             1          0.4         1           1           5            3          1          0.4        0           0
Total direct charges                           2          0.4        4            1          14            3          4          0.4        0           0
Rent recovery index (%)                       21         18         24           10          21            9          7          2           0        n.a.
Farm income per capita (US$)                  70         50        100           65         300         160          95         65         95          65
Absolute poverty: US$ 95 (1975)
GNP per capita:      US$300 (1978)
/a Includes other hired labor.



- 40 -
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      By providing improved water control, distribution and drainage, the
project would increase crop yields and production on 186,000 ha in Jatiluhur
and would directly benefit some 346,000 farm families or 1.9 million people;
through the provision of additional employment opportunities, it would
indirectly benefit some 61,000 landless laborers' families, or 336,000 people.
By increasing dry season irrigation from 149,000 ha at present to 167,000 ha
(rice only) at full project development, it would create a demand for an
additional 10.7 million man-days of farm labor per year,/l equivalent to some
45,000 full-time additional jobs annually. In the Cisedane area, improved
drainage would eliminate flooding over an average 5,000 ha, enabling some
10,000 farmers to follow improved agricultural practices during the wet season
and produce some dry season crops. Farm labor demand would correspondingly
increase by 430,000 man-days per year, equivalent to 1,800 full-time jobs
annually. In addition, improved transportation infrastructure needed for
construction and O&M of drainage works would substantially benefit the whole
Cisedane area; in particular, agricultural production would be stimulated
because of a better supply of inputs and marketing of produce and because
extension staff would be able to work more effectively. Overall incremental
farm labor demand/l in the Cisedane area is estimated at 1.8 million man-days
per year, equivalent to 7,500 full time annual jobs, which would partly
benefit the landless population of about 25,000 families.
7.02      Beneficiaries.  At present some 90% of project farmers have per
capita incomes below the estimated absolute poverty level /2 and therefore
belong to the target poverty population.  At full project development this
proportion would be lowered to about 80%. About 60% of project farm benefits
would accrue to the target group of poor farmers; 25% accruing to sharecroppers
and 35% to owner-operators.
7.03      Benefits.  Expected future crop yields and production with and
without the project are discussed in Chapter 5. Chapter 6 presents the
farm-gate prices for inputs and outputs, based on the Bank's commodity price
forecasts for rice, corn and chemical fertilizers, and domestic prices for
other commodities. Annex 2, Tables 2 and 3 give the expected crop production
costs and labor requirement/ha; Table 7.1 shows the expected gross and net
crop returns/ha (without accounting for labor), the total expected agricultural
benefits at full agricultural development for the project areas, and summarizes
net agricultural benefits for each project area.
7.04      Foreign Exchange.  Due to the existence of import taxes, quantitative
restrictions and export subsidies, the official exchange rate of US$1.00 =
Rp 415 does not represent the true value to the economy of foreign exchange
used in carrying out the project, and saved through increased grain production.
A standard conversion factor of 0.85 (shadow exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 490)
was therefore used in the economic analysis.
/1   Future with project compared to future without project.
/2 Based on an estimated absolute poverty level (in 1978 prices), of US$130
per capita per annum.



- 41 -
7.05      Labor Pricing.  As in most areas in Java, population pressure is
considerable in the project areas. This is reflected in the large proportion
of landless population (up to 20% in Cisedane) and small average farm sizes
(about 0.5 ha) which compel farm laborers to seek additional off-farm employ-
ment. As a result, labor supply is overabundant and wages are low, averaging
less than Rp 400 per man-day; unemployment is nevertheless considerable and
economic wages have consequently been assessed at about 50% of market values
(Rp 200 per man-day) as for similar Bank-assisted projects in Indonesia.
Given the low market wages, variations in this coefficient would only have
negligible effects on the rate of return (para. 7.10).
7.06      Investment Costs.  Economic costs of construction are calculated from
the base cost and physical contingencies (para. 3.14, Annex 1, Table 1) by
shadow-pricing foreign exchange (para. 7.03) and unskilled labor (para. 7.04).
Provision has been made for incremental investment required for agricultural
supporting services (drying floors, storage, cooperative buildings, etc).
The following table gives the details of economic costs:
Jatiluhur Tertiary Development          Cisedane Drainage
Base Cost /a  Economic Cost    Base Cost /a  Economic Cost
---------------------- (Rp billion) ----------------------
Foreign exchange          9.2            10.9              5.7              6.7
Unskilled labor           6.4              3.2             1.1              0.6
Other local costs         7.5             7.5              5.2              5.2
Additional
infrastructure           -              0.7              -               0.3
Total             23.1            22.3            12.0             12.8
/a Including physical contingencies.
7.07      Development Period.  In Jatiluhur, full agricultural development of
a tertiary unit would be achieved over five years after completion of the
works with intermediate years showing incremental benefits of 20%, 40%, 60%
and 80%. The build-up of benefits in the analysis is based on this assumption
and the expected construction schedule (Figure 3.1). In Cisedane, because
flooded areas form a pattern of scattered patches, benefits are also assumed
to accrue according to the construction schedule. After drainage works are
completed for a sub-area, full agricultural development is expected to be
completed over four years, intermediate development following percentages of
0%, 50% and 75%.
7.08      Economic Rates of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting costs and benefits over 30 years the economic rates of return
are 52% for Jatiluhur tertiaries and 16% for Cisedane drainage (Table 7.3).
The weighted average "rate of return" for the entire project would be 41%.



- 42 -
7.09      Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity analysis was used to determine
which variables would be most crucial to the success of the project. To that
end crossover values for a 10% discount rate were calculated for a number of
variables. The crossover value is the value of the variable tested for which
the project's net present value, calculated at 10% discount rate, is zero,
or, equivalently, the value beyond which the economic rate of return would be
below 10%. Therefore, the greater the difference between the crossover value
and the value assumed in the analysis, the less sensitive the economic rate
of return is to the tested variable.
7.10      Crossover values shown in Table 7.4 confirm that tertiary develop-
ment allows substantial yield increases at relatively low cost; in the
analysis, the yields have been assumed to increase by 600 kg/ha over a five
year development period, but an increase of 260 kg/ha would be sufficient to
justify the project. Sensitivity to rice prices is naturally of the same
order (with a security margin of more than 50%); assumptions regarding
cropping intensities have minimal bearing on project justification; secondary
crops only account for 4% of benefits and with unchanged cropping intensities
about 60% of estimated benefits would be realized, with an economic rate of
return in excess of 40%. For both projects, shadow pricing assumptions appear
to be of secondary importance. Although it has a lower economic rate of return,
the drainage project is not overly sensitive to individual assumptions; in
particular, future world prices of rice could be lower than present prices
(in real terms) and leave the rate of return above 10%. Moreover benefits
accruing to non-flooded farms could be reduced by 70%. Finally, an attempt
to separate drainage benefits and road benefits could be conducted as follows:
a rural roads project would be considered first with capital costs corres-
ponding to the cost of roads in the present project (including engineering,
administration and contingencies, 49% of total cost) and yielding the benefits
expected from non-flooded farms (47% of total benefits); the drainage works
would be considered in a second stage and would only be credited with the
flooded farm benefits. The economic rate of return for both projects would
be about 16%, as for the original project, because costs and benefits of
drainage and roads would be allocated to the separate projects in similar
proportions.
7.11      Risks.  No major management or organizational problems are expected
in the implementation of the project. Problems encountered previously in
tertiary development projects are not expected to arise here because of
accumulated experience and good management performance of the Jatiluhur
Authority. Rapid inflation over the last several years led to sizeable cost
overruns on projects initiated in the early 1970s. Inflation is a continuing
problem; however, the provisions for price increases are greater for this and
other projects recently financed by the Bank Group than in earlier projects.



- 43 -
Table 7.1: ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Production per Hectare            Project Area Production
Farm-gate  Gross Production   Gross         Gross   Imputed    Total farm
Area   Yield        price    value   cost        margin    margin  labor cost    income
('000 ha)(ton/ha)(Rp'000/ton) ------- (Rp'OOO) -------    -------- (Rp billion) -------
Jatiluhur Tertiary Development
Future Without Project
Wet Season
Irrigated paddy         177      3.8       101         384      63         321        56.8       7.8          49.0
Rainfed paddy             9      2.0       101         202      45         157         1.4       0.4            1.0
Dry season
Irrigated paddy         149      3.6       101         364      63         301        44.8       6.3          38.5
Corn                     15      1.0        75          75      35          40         0.6       0.2           0.4
Total                 350                                                          103.6      14.7          88.9
Cropping intensity:  188%
Future With Project
Wet Season
Irrigated paddy         186      4.5       101         455      81         374        69.6       8.6          61.0
Dry season
Irrigated paddy         167      4.3       101         434      80         354        59.1       7.4          51.7
Corn                     47      1.2        75          90      41          49         2.3       0.9            1.4
Total                 400                                                          131.0      16.9         114.1
Cropping intensity:  215%
Project Benefits                                                                                                   25.2
Cisedane Drainage
Future Without Project
Wet Season
Irrigated paddy          37      4.0       101         404      66         338        12.5       1.6          10.9
Rainfed paddy             5      2.0       101         202      44         158         0.8       0.2           0.6
Dry season
Irrigated paddy          16      3.6       101         364      54         310         5.0       0.6           4.4
Corn                      2      0.8        75          60      32          28         0.1       0.0           0.0
Total                  60                                                           18.4       2.4          15.9
Cropping intensity:   143%
Future With Project
Wet Season
Irrigated paddy          42      4.3       101         434      79         355        14.9       1.8          13.1
Dry season
Irrigated paddy          20      4.2       101         424      79         345         6.9       0.8            6.1
Corn                      8      1.0        75          75      38          37         0.3       0.1           0.2
Total                  70                                                           22.1       2.7          19.4
Cropping intensity:  167%
Project Benefits                                                                                                    3.5



- 44 -
Table 7.2: TOTAL MONTHLY CROP LABOR REQUIREMENTS
('000 man-days)
Area
('000 ha)  Jan    Feb        Mar      Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov             Dec     Total
Jatiluhur Tertiary Development
Wet Season
Rainfed rice        P      9       153      81       198      198    126                                       90    351        333    1,530
W     9        162      90      225      225     135                                       90    351       342    1,620
Irrigated rice    P   177    2,655  4,248   7,965   1,593                                                   1,947  7,965   9,027  35,400
W   177    3,363  5,133   8,673    1,770                                               1,947  8,319   9,735  38,940
W   186    3,720  5,766   9,858   2,046                                                2,046  8,928  10,416  42,780
Dry Season
Irrigated rice    P   149                         1,192   7,152  6,407  2,235  2,235  6,109  2,980                                    28,310
W   149                       1,192   7,152  7,003  2,831  2,831  7,003  3,278                                   31,290
W   167                       1,336   8,183  8,016  3,340  3,340  8,517  4,008                                   36,740
Corn                P    15                          150      105      75    225      135     210      75     225                      1,200
W    15                         150      105      75     225     135     210       75     225                     1,200
W    47                         470      376     282    799    470       705      282     846                     4,230
Total         P   350    2,808  4,329   9,505   9,048  6,608  2,460  2,370  6,319  3,055  2,262  8,316   9,360  66,440
W   350    3,525  5,223  10,240   9,252  7,213  3,056  2,966  7,213  3,353  2,262  8,670  10,077  73,050
W   400     3,720  5,766  11,644  10,605  8,298  4,139  3,810  9,222  4,290  2,892  8,928  10,416  83,750
Cisedane Drainage
Wet Season
Flooded irri-       P      5       210     135       105      150     115                                      45     200       290    1,250
gated rice        W      5       210     135      105       150     115                                      45     200       290   1,250
Nonflooded irri-  P    37          555    851    1,554        333                                             333  1,887    1,887   7,400
gated rice        W    37        592    925   1,702        370                                              333  1,924    1,924   7,770
W    42        798  1,218   2,100        420                                              420  2,142   2,142   9,240
Dry Season
Nonflooded irri-  P    16          224    336        592      128                                              192     768      720   2,960
gated rice        W    16        240    368       656       144                                             192    784        736   3,120
W    20        320    520       940      200                                              240  1,020       960   4,200
Corn                P      2                          20       12       8      24      18      26       8      24                        140
W      2                         20       12       8      24       18      26       8      24                        140
W      8                         80       56      40     120      80      112      40     112                        740
Total         P    60        989  1,322   2,271         623     123      24      18      26        8    594  2,855   2,897  11,750
w    60    1,042  1,428   2,483          676     123      24       18      26       8    594  2,908   2,950  12,280
W    70     1,118  1,738   3,120         676      40     120      80      112      40    771  3,162   3,102  14,080
Note: P = present
W = future without project
W = future with project



- 45 -
Table 7.3: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(US$ million)
Costs                  Project
Year                               Capital    O&M    Total           benefits
Jatiluhur Tertiary Development
1979                              15.9        -       15.9            -
1980                              16.1       0.9      17.0           3.6
1981                              11.6       1.8      13.4          10.9
1982                              10.1       2.4      12.5          20.6
1983                                -        3.0       3.0          32.8
1984                                -        3.0       3.0          44.9
1985                                -        3.0       3.0          53.4
1986                                -        3.0       3.0          58.3
1987-2009                           -        3.0       3.0          60.7
Present value at
10% discount rate                 47.7      24.8      72.5         411.3
15% discount rate                 45.3      16.5      61.8         256.1
50% discount rate                 34.8       3.9      38.7          40.9
Economic rate of return: 52%
Cisedane Drainage
1979                               8.4        -        8.4
1980                              10.9       0.4      11.3
1981                               8.7       0.9       9.6           1.1
1982                               2.8       1.3       4.1           3.1
1983                                -        1.4       1.4           5.7
1984                                -        1.4       1.4           7.4
1985                                -        1.4       1.4           8.2
1986-2009                             -         1.4       1.4          8.4
Present value at
10% discount rate                 27.6      11.7      39.3          58.9
15% discount rate                 26.3       7.9      34.2          36.7
Economic rate of return:   16%



- 46 -
Table 7.4: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Appraisal value   Crossover value   % change
Jatiluhur Tertiary Development
Increase in paddy yields (kg/ha)                 600                 260            -57
World price of rice /a (US$/ton)                 439                 185            -58
Total construction cost (US$ million)             56                 295           +427
Pure benefit delay                               n.a.                 17 yrs        n.a.
Shadow foreign exchange rate /b                  490                 170            -65
Shadow wage rate (coefficient)                   0.5                   8        +1,500
Cisedane Drainage
Increases in paddy yields (kg/ha)
Wet season paddy                               300                  85            -78
Dry season paddy                               600                   0           -100
Number of nonflooded farms
benefitting from the project                75,000             22,500             -70
World price of rice /a (US$/ton)                 439                 335            -24
Total construction cost (US$ million)             29                  45            +55
Pure benefit delay                               n.a.                  3 yrs        n.a.
Shadow foreign exchange rate /b                  490                 310            -37
Shadow wage rate (coefficient)                   0.5                   2           +300
/a Thai, 5% brokens, f.o.b. Bangkok.
/b Rupiah equivalent of US$1.00.



- 47 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following points:
(a)  consultants acceptable to the Bank, including those to assist in
preparing detailed designs and construction drawings for the first
75,000 ha of tertiary systems, would be engaged by July 31, 1979 on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; by July 31, 1980,
the consultants engaged for the first 75,000 ha of tertiary systems
would be employed to assist with the remaining 75,000 ha; and a
training advisor, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment are satisfactory to both the Government and
the Bank, would be employed by July 31, 1979 (paras 3.07 and 4.05);
(b)  except for tertiary structures, the works to be constructed would
be grouped into a number of suitable contracts (minimum value of
US$250,000) that would enable large local contractors and joint
ventures of smaller local firms to bid within the classes for which
Government regulations require them to be prequalified; to minimize
late construction starts early in the dry season, invitations to
bid on such contracts would be issued, and bids would be received
and processed as soon as tender documents are completed, without
waiting for the DIP to be signed, but contracts would be awarded
only after the DIP is approved; price escalation clauses would be
included in civil works contracts extending beyond one year (para.
3.17);
(c)  PROSIDA, the Jatiluhur Authority and P4S would maintain separate
accounts for the project; engage independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank to audit these accounts each fiscal year; and submit to
the Bank, no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, certified copies of the audited financial statements, together
with the auditor's report (para. 3.19);
(d)  the Government would cause P4S, PROSIDA and the Jatiluhur Authority
to be adequately staffed at all times with competent and qualified
personnel (para. 4.03);
(e)  the Government would ensure that adequate agricultural credit,
extension services and inputs (including fertilizers, agricultural
chemicals and certified seeds) are made available to farmers at the
village level in all project areas and would assist in the provision
of drying and storage facilities (para. 4.10);
(f)  a water-user association would be formed for each tertiary network
to participate in its construction and to operate and maintain it
after its completion; each association would collect from its
members contributions sufficient to cover the sound operation and
maintenance of the network (para 4.11);



- 48 -
(g) by December 31, 1981, the Government would prepare and furnish to
the Bank for its review, its program for the maintenance of access
roads upgraded or constructed under the project, and its plans for
staffing and provision of funds for the program; and by April 1,
1982, it would implement the program on the completed roads and
shall regularly inform the Bank about the progress of such implemen-
tation (para. 4.12);
(h) in order that all facilities of the irrigation systems rehabilitated
or constructed with financial assistance of the Bank Group are
properly maintained, the Government would: (i) ensure that at all
times adequate staff are employed and O&M funds, adjusted to keep
pace with inflation and actual needs, are allocated to each system;
(ii) by August 15 of each year, make available to the organizations/-
departments charged with maintenance of the systems, not less than
one half of the annual budgeted O&M funds, and the balance in
quarterly installments until all the allocated funds have been
released; (iii) take appropriate steps to progressively increase
the required number of qualified O&M staff until adequate staff
levels, established between the Government and the Bank, have been
attained; and (iv) inform the Bank: by December 31, of each year
of the proposed cost per ha for O&M budgets and staff requirements
for each system; by June 1 of each following year, the approved
budgets; and by October I of such year, the staff provisions (para
4.13);
(i) the survey and evaluation of the economic and social benefits of
the project would be carried out by the survey and evaluation
services provided under in the Sixth Irrigation Project (Ln.llOO-IND)
(para. 4.14);
(j) by June 30, 1980, the Government would prepare, and furnish to the
Bank for its information and comments, a study to: (a) determine
the level of funds necessary to ensure adequate operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems financed by the Bank and the
Association; (b) investigate sources of funds and mechanisms to
ensure timely availability of such funds; and (c) recommend appro-
priate levels of direct and indirect contributions including, among
others, IPEDA contributions from the beneficiaries of irrigation
(para 6.07); and
(k) on completion of the tertiary development and drainage works, the
Government, through the IPEDA, would establish and collect charges
on irrigable agricultural land, or on users of the land, serviced
by the irrigation systems constructed or upgraded under the project.
Taking account of the capability of the beneficiaries to pay, these
charges would be at levels to ensure sound O&M practices and, over
the useful life of the system, to recover a reasonable portion of
capital expenditures attributable to the system. Capital expendi-
tures and O&M costs which are also common to other water uses will



- 49 -
be apportioned in an equitable manner among the various users.
Once every two years, the Government will furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the IPEDA rates established and collected for all
classes of irrigable agricultural land (para 6.09).
8.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a
Bank loan of US$77 million, with a 20-year maturity including a grace period
of 5 years. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 50 -                                                   ANNEX I
Table I
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Cost Estimate /a
Foreign      Base
Local   Foreign       Total      Local   Foreign       Total     exchange      cost
------ Rp million ------         ----- US$ mlion ------    ------ …()
I. Jatiluhur Tertiary Development
Civil works
Tertiary structures             3,570      4,400      7,970         8.6       10.6       19.2        55           41
Tertiary canals                 4,770      3,195      7,965        11.5        7.7       19.2        40           41
OM staff housing                 205         125       330         0.5        0.3       0.8         40            4
Subtotal                  8,545      7,720    16,265        20.6        18.6       39.2        47           83
Land acquisition                    125           -       125         0.3           -       0.3          -           I
Vehicles and equipment                 -         85        85           -        0.2        0.2        100           -
Consulting services /b            1,080         455     1,535         2.6         1.1       3.7        30            8
Training                             125         85       210         0.3        0.2        0.5         40            1
Administration & overhead         1,285         165     1,450         3.1         0.4       3.5         10            7
Base cost                11,160      8B 510   19_,670        26.9       20.5       47.4        43          100
Physical contingencies /c         2,035       1,535     3,570         4.9        3.7        8.6        43           18
Expected price increases          3,275       2,450     5,725         7.9        5.9       13.8        43           29
Total                    16,470     12,495   28,965          39.7       30.1       69.8        43          147
II.  Cisedane Drainage
Civil works
Excavation and fill /d          1,540      1,575      3,115         3.7        3.8        7.5        50           31
Outlet improvements                 _          40        40           _        0.1        0.1        70
Dredging
Control structures Ie             125         125       250        0.3         0.3       0.6         55            2
Check structures                   45          40        85        0.1         0.1        0.2        55            1
Tertiary outlets                  125         125       250         0.3        0.3        0.6        50            2
Bitumen - surfaced roads          665         705     1,370         1.6        1.7        3.3        50           14
Gravel - surfaced roads           955         955     1,910         2.3        2.3        4.6        50           19
New bridges                       250         330       580        0.6         0.8        1.4        55            6
Rehabilitation of existing
bridges                          80        125        205        0.2         0.3       0.5         55            2
Fishpond outlets                  125          85       210        0.3         0.2       0.5         50            2
Pipe and box culverts             125         125       250        0.3         0.3       0.6         50            2
Subtotal                  4,035  8,23           8J_65         9.7       10.2       19.9        51           82
Consulting servir,pd              165         540       705        0.4         1.3        1.7        70            7
Vehicles and equipment              -          85        85           -        0.2        0.2       100            1
Land acquisitEion                 250           -       250         0.6          -        0.6         -            2
Administration & overhead         745          85       830         1.8        0.2        2.0        10            8
Base cost                 5,195      4,940    10,135         12.5       11.9       24.4        49          100
Physical contingencies /c         950         915     1,865         2.3        2.2       4.5         49           18
Expected price increases        1,410      1,330      2,740         3.4        3.2        6.6        49           27
Total                     7,555       7,185   1_4740         18.2       17.3       35.5        49          145
III.  Studies and Investigations
Mapping                              165        705        870        0.4         1.7       2.1         80           19
Consulting services
Flood control & drainage
studies                         455        790      1,245        1.1         1.9       3.0         60           28
DGWRD training needs                -         125       125           -        0.3        0.3        80            3
Tidal lands development           625       1,160     1,785         1.5        2.8        4.3        65           39
Equipment                              -        210        210          -         0.5       0.5        100            5
Subtotal                  1,245      2,990      4,235         3.0        7.2       10.2         71          94
Administration & overhead            250         40        290        0.6         0.1       0.7         10            6
Base cost                 1,495       3 030    4,525          3.6        7.3       10.9         67         100
Physical contingencies /c            120        335       455         0.3         0.8       1.1         68           10
Expected price increases             170        330        500        0.4         0.8       1.2         68           11
Total                     1,785       3695    5,480           4.3        8.9       13.2         67         121
GRAND TOTAL              25,810      23,375   49_185         62.2       56.3      118.5         48         143
/a  Based on end-1978 prices and exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 415.
/b  Based on billing rate of about US$5,500/man-month and reimbursable expenses of about US$3,500/man-month
for foreign consultants and billing rate of about US$1,200/man-month and reimbursable expenses of about
US$300/man-month for local consultants.
/c  About 20% for civil works and 10% for equipment and services.
Id Excavation of rivers and drains, embankment construction and disposal of excess excavated material.
/e Includes foot bridges.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Expected Price Increases
Indonesian Fiscal Year /a          Total
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  increase
Annual inflation rate, % /b
Civil works                            12        10        8         8
Equipment and services                  7         7         7        7
-…------------ US$ million -
I. Jatiluhur Tertiary development
Civil works                    1.6       3.0       3.7       4.4       12.7
Equipment and services         0.2       0.6       0.1       0.2        1.1
Total                     1.8       3.6      3.8       4.6       13.8
II. Cisedane Drainage
Civil works                    0.7       1.8       2.4       1.0        5.9
Equipment and services         0.1       0.2       0.3       0.1        0.7
Total                     0.8       2.0      2.7       1.1        6.6
III. Studies and Investigations
Equipment and services         0.4       0.8         -         -        1.2
GRAND TOTAL               3.0       6.4      6.5       5.7       21.6
/a  April 1 - March 31.
lb  Projected from actual inflation rates experienced in a large number of
civil works contracts in Indonesia and based on the assumption that
inflation rates for local currency component equal those for indirect
foreign exchange costs.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Schedule of Expenditures
Indonesian Fiscal Year /a          Total
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83 expenditure
----------------- US$ million ----------------
I. Tertiary development
Civil works                    10.7      10.7      9.5       8.3       39.2
Equipment and services          3.5       3.6      0.6       0.5        8.2
Base cost                 14.2     14.3      10.1       8.8       47.4
Physical contingencies          2.4       2.5      2.0       1.7        8.6
Expected price increases        1.8       3.6      3.8       4.6       13.8
Total                     18.4     20.4      15.9      15.1       69.8
II. Cisedane Drainage
Civil works                     5.0       6.9      6.0       2.0       19.9
Equipment and services          1.5       1.6       0.9      0.5        4.5
Base cost                  6.5      8.5       6.9       2.5       24.4
Physical contingencies          1.3       1.8       1.3      0.1        4.5
Expected price increases        0.8       2.0       2.7      1.1        6.6
Total                      8.6     12.3      10.9       3.7       35.5
III. Studies and Investigations
Equipment and services          6.1       4.8         -        -       10.9
Base cost                  6.1      4.8         -         -       10.9
Physical contingencies          0.7       0.4         -        -        1.1
Expected price increases        0.4       0.8         -        -        1.2
Total                      7.2      6.0         -         -       13.2
GRAND TOTAL               34.2     38.7      26.8      18.8      118.5
/a April 1 - March 31.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Cost          Loan
Total   Foreign   amount
------ US$ million -----
I. Civil Works
(a) Tertiary Development (Jatiluhur)
Structures                                19.2       10.6      27.2
Earthwork                                 19.2        7.7         -
Physical contingencies                     8.0        3.8         -
Expected price increases                   8.0        3.8         -
Subtotal                            54.4       25.9      27.2/a
(b)  Other Civil Works
Jatiluhur Authority                        0.8        0.3       0.9
PROSIDA                                   19.9       10.2      22.7
Physical contingencies                     6.0        2.8         -
Expected price increases                   7.0        3.4         -
Subtotal                            33.7       16.7      23.6/b
II. Vehicles and Equipment
Jatiluhur Authority                               0.2         0.2       0.2
PROSIDA                                           0.2        0.2        0.3/c
P4S                                               0.4         0.4      0.5
Expected price increases                          0.2        0.2          -
Subtotal                             1.0        1.0       1.0/d
III. Consulting Services, Mapping and Training
Jatiluhur Authority                               4.2         1.3      4.5
PROSIDA                                           5.0         3.5       5.4
P4S                                               6.5         4.6       7.0
Expected price increases                           1.2        0.6         -
Subtotal                            16.9       10.0      16.9/e
IV. Unallocated
Balance of physical contingencies                  0.2         0.1
Balance of expected price increases                 5.2        1.9
Land acquisition                                    0.9          -
Administration and overhead                         6.2        0.7         -
Subtotal                            12.5        2.7       8.3
Total                              118.5       56.3      77.0
/a Disbursements shall be at 100% of total expenditures for structures.
/b Disbursements shall be at 70% of total expenditures.
/c Includes about US$15,000 worth of equipment for DGWRD training advisor.
/d Disbursements shall be at 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported goods and equipment, 95% of ex-factory costs for locally
manufactured equipment, and 65% of total expenditures imported goods
procured locally.
/e Disbursements shall be at 100% of total expenditures.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year and semester                 Cumulative disbursements
(US$ million)
FY79
Second                                                  0.5
FY80
First                                                   4.5
Second                                                16.0
FY81
First                                                 28.5
Second                                                41.0
FY82
First                                                 54.0
Second                                                61.5
FY83
First                                                 68.5
Second                                                73.5
FY84
First                                                  77.0



- 55-                             ANNEX 1
Table 6
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Breakdown of Costs of Consulting Services /a
Expatriates            Local consultants
Foreign     Local       Total          Local
Item                            currency   currency       cost        currency
------- US$/man-month…
Billing Rate
Basic salary                    2,200          -       2,200           500
Social benefits                   600          -         600           125
Home office overhead            1,760          -       1,760           400
Overseas allowance /b             550          -         550           100
Net fee                           330          -         330            75
Subtotal                 5,500          -       5,500         1,200
Reimbursable Expenses
Mobilization and travel-
associated expenses
International travel            450          -        450
Mobilization and
positioning                   250          -        250             -
Subsistence allowance            50          -         50             20
Miscellaneous expenses          100          -         100            20
Subtotal                   850          -         850            40
Duty station expenses
Local duty travel                 -        150         150            30
Per diem                          -        250         250            40
Field office overhead             -        400         400            40
Housing and utilities             -      1,200       1,200            70
Transport /c                      -        650         650           80
Subtotal                      -     2,650       2,650           260
Total                    6,350      2,650       9,000/d       1,500/e
/a  Based on 11 consultants' contracts in the last two years.  Costs have been
updated to end-1978 prices.
/b Field allowance for local consultants.
/c Includes driver, fuel and lubricants, and depreciation of vehicles.
/d May vary between US$8,000 and US$10,000/man-month depending upon the
nationality of expatriate.
/e  Applies to engineers and surveyors; total cost for draftsmen and
technicians is about $500/man-month.



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Vehicles and Equipment
Quantity   Unit cost   Total cost
US$ million -----
I. Jatiluhur Tertiary Development
Vehicles                                   5        12,500       62,500
Motorcycles                               50           650       32,500
Bicycles                                 100           100       10,000
Survey equipment                           -         L.S.       40,000
Subtotal                                                    145,000
II. Cisedane Drainage
Vehicles                                   6        12,500       75,000
Motorcycles                               15           650        9,750
Motor grader with scarifier (180 HP)    1          100,000      100,000
Spare parts                                -         L.S.       15,250
Hydrological and survey equipment          -          L.S.       37,500
Subtotal                                                    237,500
III. Studies and Investigations
DGWRD training
Vehicle                                  1       12,500       12,500
Office equipment                         -         L.S.       15,000
Subtotal                                                     27,500
Tidal studies
Boats, 16' (outboard)                    6       12,500       75,000
Boats, 24' (outboard)                    2       25,000       50,000
Outboard motors                          4        5,000       20,000
Spare parts                             -          L.S.       10,000
Vehicles                                 9       12,500      112,500
Engineering equipment                    -         L.S.       80,000
Survey equipment                        -          L.S.       10,000
Office equipment                         -         L.S.       20,000
Office supplies                          -         L.S.       18,000
Field supplies                           -         L.S.       17,000
Subtotal                                                    412,500
Total                                                       822,500



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Civil Works, Quantities, Unit Prices and Costs
Quantity   Unit    Unit price        Cost /a
(Rp)     (Rp million)
I. Jatiluhur Tertiary Development
Structures /b                 16,700    each       477,000        7,970
Earthwork                 19,900,000    cu m            400       7,965
0&M staff housing             10,080    sq m         33,000         330
II. Cisedane Drainage
Excavation and fill /c   2,830,000    cu m            1,100       3,115
Outlet improvements             -        L.S.           -            30
Dredging                        -        L.S.           -            10
Control Structures /d             34    each       735,300          250
Check structures                  16    each    5,312,000            85
Tertiary outlets                 555    each       450,500          250
Bitumen-surfaced roads            86      km    16,000,000        1,370
Gravel-surfaced roads           143.5    km    13,300,000         1,910
New bridges                       19    each   30,500,000           580
Rehabilitation of
existing bridges                  9    each   22,800,000           205
Fishpond outlets                 120    each    1,750,000           210
Pipe and box culverts             95    each    2,630,000           250
/a   Based on end-1978 prices.
/b   Includes division boxes, gates and frames, inlet and outlet transitions
and short sections of canal lining upstream and downstream of structures,
as required.
/c   Excavation of rivers and drains, embankment construction and disposal of
excess excavated material.
/d   Includes food bridges.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XII
Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs
Jatiluhur Tertiary development                       Cisedane - flooded                Cisedane - nonflooded
Wet season                    Dry season                 Wet season            Wet season              Dry season
Irrigated rice Rainfed rice   Irrigated rice    Corn              Irrigated rice        Irrigated rice   Irrigated rice    Corn
PRESENT
Cultivation  (animal-day) /a              20               20                15             10              17                   20                   15             10
Seed (kg)                                 40               40                40            60               70                   40                   40            60
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                                   100              50                100            75               80                  100                   80            75
TSP /b                                  25              10                 25            30                5                   25                  20             15
Agrochemicals
Insecticides (1)                         1                                  1                              1                    1                    1
Zinc phosphide (gm)                     50                                 50                             50                   50                  50
Harvesting (% crop yield/ha)               3                3                 3              3                3                   3                    3              3
Interest (% month) /c                      2                2                 2              2               2                    2                    2              2
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
Cultivation (animal-day)                  20               20                20             10               17                  20                   15             10
Seed (kg)                                 40               40                40             60              70                   40                   40            60
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                                   120              60                120            80               80                  140                  100            80              aD
TSP                                     30               10                30            40                5                   35                   25            20
Agrochemicals
Insecticides (1)                      1.5                 1              1.5              1                1                 1.5                   1.5             1
Zinc phosphide (gm)                     50                                 50                             50                   50                   50
Harvesting (% crop yield/ha)              3                 3                 3              3                3                    3                   3              3
Interest (% month)                        1                 2                 1              2             1.5                  1.5                  1.5              2
FUTURE WITH PROJECT
Cultivation (animal-day)                  20                                 20             10                                   20                   20             10
Seed (kg)                                 30                                 30             60                                   30                   30             60
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                                   200                                200           !00                                   200                  200           100
TSP                                     50                                 50            50                                    50                   S0            30
Agrochemicals
Insecticides (1)                      2.5                                2.5            1.5                                  2.5                  2.5            1.5
Zinc pliosphide (gm)                   100                                100                                                 100                  100
Harvesting (% crop yield/ha)               3                                  3              1                                     3                   3              3
Interest (% month)                         1                                  1              2                                     1                   1              2
/a  Hiring cost is Rp 1,000/animal-day for buffalo pair and driver.                                                                                                               c z
lb  TSP - Triple superphosphate.                                                                                                                                                  X x
/c  Rice - interest is charged on 90% (cash inputs - harvesting costs) for seven months.
Corn - interest is charged on 90% (cash inputs - harvesting costs) for three months.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XII
Monthly Crop Labor Requirements
(man-day/ha)
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Total
JATILUHUR TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT
Wet Season
Rainfed rice       P     17      9    22    22    14                                  10    39      37     170
W    18    10    25    25    15                                    10    39      38     180
Irrigated rice   P    15    24    45           9                                      11    45      51     200
W     19    29    49      10                                       11    47      55    220
W    20    31    53    11                                          11    48      56    230
Dry Season
Irrigated rice   P                      8    48    43   15    15    41    20                               190                  1
W                   8    48    47   19    19    47    22                                210
W                   8    49    48   20    20    51    24                                220
Corn               P                   10      7      5   15      9    14       5    15                     80
W                  10      7      5   15       9    14       5    15                     80
W                  10      8      6   17    10    15         6    18                     90
CISEDANE DRAINAGE
Wet Season
Flooded irri-    P    42    27    21    30    23                                        9    40    58      250
gated rice       W    42    27    21        30    23                                 9    40      58     250
Nonflooded ir-   P    15    23    42           9                                        9    51    51       200
rigated rice   W       16    25    46       10                                       9    52    52       210
W     19    29     50    10                                        10    51      51     220
Dry Season
Nonflooded irri- P    14    21    37           8                                       12    48      45     185
gated rice       W     15    23    41        9                                      12    49      46      195
W    16    26    47       10                                       12    51      48     210               0 
Corn               P                   10      6      4   12       9    13       4     12                    70               a M
W                  10       6     4   12       9    13       4     12                    70               X
w                  10      7      5   15    10    14         5    14                     80                 tQ
Note: P = present
W = future without project
W = future with project



- 60 -                                                                        ANNEX 2
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Crop Budgets /a
(Rp'000/ha)
J A T I L U H U_R   TE R T I  A            D      ELoPMENT                              C I S E D A N E   D R A I N A G E
Wet Season                         Dry Season                           Wet Season                         Dry Season
Irrigated paddy  Rainfed paddy  Irrigated paddy            Corn        Flooded paddy  Nonflooded paddy  Irrigated paddy            Corn
PRESENT
Yield (tons/ha)              3.5                 1.8              3.3              0.8               2.0               3.8                 3.4               0.6
Price (Rn'000/ton)          80.0  (60.0)        80.0  (60.0)   80.0  (60.0)   55.0 (40.0)    80.0  (60.0)    80.0  (60.0)                 80.0  (60.0)   55.0 (40.0)
Gross value                280.0 (210.0)       144.0 (108.0)  264.0 (198.0)   44.0 (32.0)   160.0 (120.0)   304.0 (228.0)    272.0 (204.0)   33.0 (24.0)
Harvesting Losses            8.4   (6.3)         4.3   (3.2)      7.9   (5.9)       1.3  (1.0)       4.8   (3.6)       9.1   (6.8)         8.2   (6.1)       1.0  (0.7)
Cultivation               20.0  (20.0)       20.0  (20.0)    15.0  (15.0)   10.0 (10.0)          17.0  (17.0)       20.1  (20.0)        15.0  (15.0)    10.0 (10.0)
Seed                       5.0   (5.0)         5.0   (5.0)      5.0   (5.0)      2.4  (2.4)       4.2   (4.2)        4.9   (4.9)         4.9   (4.9)      2.4  (2.4)
Urea                      10.5   (7.0)         5.3   (3.5)   10.5   (7.0)        7.9  (5.3)        8.4   (5.6)      10.5   (7.0)         8.4   (5.6)      7.9  (5.3)
TSP                        2.4   (1.8)         1.0   (0.7)      2.4   (1.8)      2.9  (2.1)        0.5   (0.4)       2.4   (1.8)         1.9   (1.4)      1.4  (1.1)
Insecticides               4.1   (0.9)          -       -       4.1   (0.9)       -      -        4.1   (0.9)        4.1   (0.9)         4.1   (0.9)       -
Direct production cost   42.0  (34.7)           31.2  (29.2)   37.0  (29.7)   23.1 (19.8)    34.2  (28.1)             41.9  (34.6)        34.3  (27.8)   21.7 (18.7)
Gross margin               229.6 (169.1)       108.5  (75.6)  219.1 (162.4)   19.6 (11.3)   121.0  (88.4)   253.0 (186.6)    229.5 (170.1)   10.3  (4.6)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Crop management                60                 50              60                30                65               60                  55                25
Land Preparation               45                 40              40                10                50               50                  45                10
Planting                      40                  40              40                15                90               40                  40                15
Harvesting                     55                 40              50                25                45                50                 45                20
Total                     200                 170             190               80               250               200                 185               70
FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT
Yield (tons/ha)               3.8                2.0              3.6               1.0              2.0               4.0                 3.6               0.8
Price (Rp'000/ton)         101.0  (75.0)       101.0  (75.0)  101.0  (75.0)   75.0 (55.0)   101.0  (75.0)   101.0  (75.0)                !01.0  (75.0)   75.0 (55.0)
Gross value                383.8 (285.0)    202.0 (150.0)  363.6 (270.0)   75.0 (55.0)   202.0 (150.0)   404.0 (300.0)    363.6 (270.0)   60.0 (44.0)
Harvesting Losses           11.5   (8.6)         6.1   (4.5)   10.9   (8.1)         2.3  (1.7)       6.1   (4.5)       12.1   (9.0)       10.9   (8.1)       1.8  (1.3)
Cultivation               20.0  (20.0)       20.0  (20.0)   20.0  (20.0)   10.0 (10.0)           17.0  (17.0)       20.1  (20.0)        15.0  (15.0)    10.0 (10.0)
Seed                       5.8   (5.8)         5.8   (5.8)      5.8   (5.8)    3.3  (3.3)          5.3   (5.3)       5.4   (5.4)         5.4   (5.4)      3.3  (3.3)
Urea                      15.8  (10.6)         7.9   (5.3)   15.8  (10.6)   10.6  (7.0)           10.6   (7.0)      18.5  (12.3)        13.0   (8.8)   10.6  (7.0)
TSP                        3.6   (2.6)         1.2   (0.9)    3.6   (2.6)        4.8  (3.5)        0.6   (0.5)       4.2   (3.1)         3.0   (2.2)      2.4  (1.8)
Insecticides               6.2   (1.4)         4.1   (0.9)    6.2   (1.4)    4.1  (0.9)            4.1   (0.9)       6.2   (1.4)         6.2   (1.4)      4.1  (0.9)
Direct production cost   51.4  (40.3)           39.0  (32.8)   51.4  (40.3)   32.8 (24.8)    37.5  (30.6)    54.2  (42.2)                 42.8  (32.8)   30.4 (23.0)
Gross margin               320.9 (236.1)    157.0  (75.6)  301.3 (221.6)   40.0 (28.6)   158.4 (114.9)   337.7 (248.9)    309.9 (229.2)   27.8 (19.7)
Labor (man-days/ha)
Crop management                75                 55              75                30                65               65                  60                25
Land Preparation               45                 40              40                10                50                50                 45                10
Planting                       40                 40              40                15                90               40                  40                15
Harvesting                     60                 44              55                25                45               55                  50                20
Total                     220                 180             210               80               250               210                 195               70
FUTURE WITH PROJECT
Yield (tons/ha)              4.5                                  4.3               1.2                                4.3                 4.2               1.0
Price (Rp'000/ton)         101.0  (75.0)                        101.0  (75.0)   75.0 (55.0)                          101.0  (75.0)       101.0  (75.0)   75.0 (55.0)
Gross value                454.5 (337.5)                        434.3 (322.5)   90.0 (66.0)                          434.3 (322.5)    424.2 (315.0)   75.0 (55.0)
Harvesting Losses            13.6  (10.1)                        13.0   (9.7)    2.7  (2.0)                           13.0   (9.7)        12.7   (9.5)       2.3  (1.7)
Cultivation               20.0  (20.0)                         20.0  (20.0)   10.0 (10.0)                           20.0  (20.0)        20.0  (20.0)   10.0 (10.0)
Seed                       4.3   (4.3)                          4.3   (4.3)      3.3  (3.3)                          4.1   (4.1)         4.1   (4.1)      3.3  (8.8)
Urea                      26.4  (17.6)                         26.4  (17.6)   13.2  (8.8)                           26.4  (17.6)        26.4  (17.6)   13.2  (2.6)
TSP                        6.0   (4.4)                          6.0   (4.4)      6.0  (4.4)                          6.0   (4.4)         6.0   (4.4)    3.6  (1.4)
Insecticides              10.3   (2.3)                         10.3   (2.3)      6.2  (1.4)                         10.3   (2.3)       10.3   (2.3)    6.2  (3.3)
Direct production cost   67.0  (48.6)                            67.0  (48.6)   38.7 (27.9)                           66.7  (48.3)        66.7  (48.3)   36.3 (26.1)
Gross margin               373.9  (278.8)                       354.3 (264.3)   48.7 (36.2)                          354.6 (264.5)    344.8 (257.3)   36.5 (27.3)
Labor (man-days)
Crop management                80                                 80                35                                 75                  70                30
Land Preparation               45                                 40                10                                 40                  45                10
Planting                       40                                 40                15                                 40                  40                15
Harvesting                     65                                  60               30                                  600                55                25
Total                     230                                 220               90                                 220                210                80
/a Rupiah figures in the table are economic prices and costs; those in parenthesis are financial.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Farm Budgets
J A T I L U H U R   T E R T I A R Y   D E V E L O P M E N T                C I S E D A N E   D R A I N A G E
0.2 ha Farm            0.4 ha Farm             1.5 ha Farm                Flooded Farm          Non-flooded Farm
Incremental values                           P          W      W    P       W        W      P        W        W         P       W       W       P       W       W
Cropped Areas (ha)
Wet season:  Irrigated paddy             0.20   0.20   0.20   0.40   0.40   0.40   1.39           1.39      1.50    0.50/a 0.50/a 0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50
Rainfed paddy               -       -          -       -           -      0.14    0.14        -                 -       -       -       -       -
Dry season:  Irrigated paddy             0.18   0.18   0.18   0.33   0.33   0.36   1.16           1.16      1.33      -       -      0.24   0.22   0.22   0.24
Corn                       0.02   0.02   0.02   0.05   0.05   0.10   0.08    0.08            0.28       -       -     0.10   0.03   0.03   0.10
Total Cropped Areas                   0.04   0.40   0.50   0.75   0.75   0.86   2.77    2.77             3.11    0.50   0.50   0.84   0.75   0.75   0.84
Cropping intensity (%)                 200    200    250    187    187    215    185            185       207      100     100    168      150     150    168
Crop Production (kg)
Paddy                                   1,294  1,408  1,760  2,489  2,708  3,348  8,693   9,458    12,469   1,000  1,000  3,158  2,648  2,792  3,158
Corn                                        16      20    120      40      50    120       64       80       336      -       -       100       18      24    100
Farm Incomes (Rp'000)
Gross value of production /a             78.3  106.7  138.6  150.9  205.9  257.7  539.3   734.8            953.7    60.0   75.0  242.4  159.6  210.7  242.4    1
Production costs, excl. labor /b         15.0   19.0   26.4   29.1   36.9   47.4  104.4   131.4            173.9     15.8   17.6   45.7   28.8   35.3   45.7   o
Hired labor (harvesting) /c                9.3   12.7   15.8   17.9   24.4   30.1   62.6/e  85.1/e  112.2/e   7.2    9.0   28.4   19.1   25.1   28.4
Net value of production                  54.0   75.0   96.4  103.9  144.6  180.2  372.3   518.3    667.6             37.0   48.4  168.3  111.7  150.3  168.3
Taxes                                      1.5    1.5    3.2    3.0    3.0    6.4   11.3    11.3            24.0       1.0     1.0    4.0    2.0    4.0    4.0
Payments to landlord                     27.0   37.5   48.2   52.0   72.3   90.1  186.2   259.2            333.8    18.5   24.2   84.2   55.9   75.2   84.2
Net Incomes
Owner-operator                           52.5   72.5   93.2  100.9  141.6  173.8  361.0   507.0    643.6    36.0   47.4  164.3  109.7  146.3  164.3
Sharecropper                             27.0   37.5   47.8   51.9   72.2   89.3  185.8   258.8            330.8     18.5   24.2   83.8   55.9   74.8   83.8
Off-farm income /d                       70.0   70.0   70.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   40.0    40.0             40.0    60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0
Total Net Incomes
Owner-operator                          122.5  142.5  163.2  160.9  201.6  233.8  401.0   547.0            683.6    96.0  107.4  214.3  169.7  206.3  214.3
Sharecropper                             97.0  107.5  117.8  111.9  132.2  149.3  225.8   298.8            370.8    78.5   84.2  143.8  115.9  134.8  143.8
Total Labor Requirements (man-days)           76    82       104    146    161       179    528       583       664      125    125      169    145      152    169
P = Present
W = Future without project
W = Future with project
/a Flooded paddy.
/b Based on Table 3, Crop Budgets.
/c At 12% of gross paddy production.
/d Based on interviews and Bank surveys.
/e Includes other hired labor; only the 1.5 ha farm is large enough to hire labor; total hired labor is 153 man-days at present, 184 man-days
in the future without project and 238 man-days with the project.                                                                                            1
t- Z



- 62 -                               ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Schedule of Farly Events
Activity                                                       Target date
Jatiluhur Tertiary Development
Award design contracts for first 75,000 ha                       May 1979
Award construction contracts for first 40,000 ha
(design funded by GOI in FY78/79)                              June 1979
Award construction contracts for next 10,000 ha                  November 1979
Award design contracts for second 75,000 ha                      May 1980
Cisedane Drainage
Issue tender documents for first drainage
rehabilitation contract                                        March 1979
Issue tender documents for first road & bridge
rehabilitation contract                                        April 1979
Amend current consultants' contract to include
construction supervision                                       May 1979
Award first drainage rehabilitation contract                     June 1979
Award first road & bridge rehabilitation contract                July 1979
Complete construction drawings and tender documents
for remaiwing works                                            March 1980
Studies and Investigations
Commence socio-economic studies in flood-affected areas
and issue tender documents for mapping and procurement
of vehicles and equipment                                      March 1979
Commence detailed design of drainage & flood control works   April 1979
Amend contract of current drainage consultants to enable
them to complete studies; engage training advisor for
DGWRD; engage local consultants for socio-economic
surveys, soil surevys and engineering designs, and
expatriate consultants for feasibility studies; and
award contracts for mapping and supply of vehicles and
equipment                                                      May 1979
Commence engineering designs and feasibility studies             November 1979
Complete interim report of DGWRD training advisor                December 1979



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XII
Approved O&M Budget for Bank-Assisted Projects, FY78/79
Rehabilitated systems   To be rehabilitated in FY78/79  For future rehabilitation                Total
Unit     Total                Unit                            Unit                              Total
No.      PROJECT                      Area    budget    budget    Area    budget    Total          Area       budget    Total        Area       budget
(ha)   (Rp/ha)  (Rp m)       (ha)    (Rp/ha)  (Rp m)        (ha)      (Rp/ha)   (Rp m)         (ha)      (Rp m)
I.  PROSIDA:
1.  Rentang                         90,216   3,800       342.8       -          -           -        -           -          -        90,216      342.8
2.  Cisedane                         40,663   3,800       154.5       -         -           -        -           -          -        40,663      154.5
3.  Semarang-Demak-Kudus:
a.  Glapan Sedadi               46,010   3,800       174.8       -          -           -        -           -          -        46,010      174.8
b.  Semarang-Kudus               13,909   3,800       52.9    1,222    1,400           1.7      1,869    1,700         3.2       17,000       57.7
4.  Way Seputfh                      25,000   3,800        95.0       -         -           -        -           -          -        25,000        95.0
5.  Ciujung                          24,300   3,800        92.3      -          -           -        -           -          -        24,300       92.3
6.  Pemali-Comal                    123,283   3,800      468.5        -         -           -        -           -          -       123,283      468.5
7.  Sadang                           50,330   3,800       191.3      -                      -        -           -          -        50,330      191.3
8.  Pekalen-Sampean                 211,165   3,800       802.4    17,945   1,400         25.1       -           -           -      229,110       827.5
9.  Cirebon                          34,111   3,800       129.6    20,764   1,400         29.1    33,640    1,700         57.2       88,515      215.9
10.  Sampean Baru                       -          -          -        -         -            -      8,000    1,700        13.6        8,000        13.6
11.  North Sadang                       -          -          -      2,000   1,400          2.8      4,000    1,700         6.8        6,000         9.6
12.  Madiun (Stage I)                  4,500   3,800        17.1    38,304   1,400         53.6    32,196    1,700         54.7       75,000       125.4
II.  Subtotal (Prosida):             663,487   3,800   2,521.2    80,235   1,400          112.3    79,705    1,700        135.5      823,427   2,769.0
OTORITA JATILUHUR:             235,000   4,600   1,081.0    13.000   1,400            19.0    40,000    1,300         52.0      288,000   1,152.0
Jatiluhur
GRAND TOTAL:                   898,487             3,602.         2                  131.3   119,705                 187.5   1,111,427   3,921.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _     _ _ _  _  _        _ _ _  _  _  _  _ _ _  _ _  _  _  __                                                          _  _ _  _  _l



- 64-                             ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General reports and studies relating to the agriculture and irrigation
sector.
A.I. World Bank, "Indonesia--Development Prospects and Needs, Basic
Economic Report," Report No. 708-IND, April 15, 1975.
B. Reports and studies relating to the project.
B.1   Jatiluhur Authority, "Tertiary Development Project, Irrigation XII
Program," Jakarta, June 1978.
B.2   Jatiluhur Authority, "Jatiluhur Irrigation Project, Irrigation XII,
Data on Yield and Production of Paddy and Secondary Crops," Jakarta
June 1978.
B.3   Jatiluhur Authority, "Jatiluhur Irrigation Project, Irrigation XII,
1976/77 and 1977 Data on Area and Yield of Paddy and Palawija Crops,
and Agricultural Support Services," Jakarta, June 1978.
B.4   DGWRD, PROSIDA (nine volumes), "Design Drainage Project, Updated
Feasibility Report," and Sir William Halcrow and Partners, Jakarta,
June 1978.
Volume 1 - Summary
Volume 2 - Project Engineering
Volume 3 - Hydrology
Volume 4 - Agriculture
Volume 5 - Economics
Volume 7 - Cisedane Subproject
Volumes 6, 8 and 9 - Unrelated to Cisedane drainage project
C.  Selected working papers.
C.1   Listings from the Bank's Agricultural Projects Appraisal System
(APAS)



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
INDONESJAN FISCAL YEAHR'
FY78/79W                   FY79/80                     F Y80181                    FY81182                    FY82/83
TEHTIARY DEVELOPMENT
Detailed Design and Construction Drawings
GCt - Funided                                          70I DIA                     7
I           15000~7  HA               150  HA
Fundefd Uldler Project                                                                          5000'  HA _A _  _
Teouler and Award                                                    50.00l _                                  0     IHA OO                       HA 000      1111A1   430  V
Tel darv Cossstrucl ion                                  _   ~~~50,000 HA     _t_         0OOO HA    _|43,OOOIHA                     _t_         43 00tHA      _
Tertiary Contstruction                                                             1301111s 2111it
Constructiuo of Staff Housing                                                      130Units    ;           _   12 Units
CISEDANE DRAINAGE                                                                           I
Coirsiotiort Drdwings                              _
T,:rde. and Award                                                                                                  3 _   ___
Fl,ood Cointrol and Draiiiage Works                                                    3 0                         30%                           30%                          10%
fIst-tcur and A"cess Hoads                                                             36                          30%      _                                                 10X
_T lDID__NDINVEST IGATIONS
Feasilsllity Stuidies
DeldiieLd Du5iqnls                                            l               _        60%                     40%
Assessuirunt of DGWVRD Training and Staffing Needs
C'-0
gI lriloiseslar foCda vear slaris April 1 and ends Marcih 31 of followinig Vaar.
b/ Work ... ipr.gress eliher with GOI funds or wilh Bank-Asmistance provided under previous piojects                                                                        World IaiSk - 19237
I.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIl
JATILUHUR AUTHORITY ORGANIZATION
Minister of State for
Economy, Finance and Industry
Ministers of Public Works and
Electric Power, Finance. Home
Attairs and Agiriculture
Jatiluhur AuthoritV
Board of Director
President Director
Director, Electric                                        |                          Director                    llot, Adiministration
Powver Deportment                                      Irrigation Department       lDepartment
DDeputy Director                                                                                                 Deputy Director
Agricultiure Division                          Developmnent and Construction Division                  [     ratioi a)d Maintenance Divisioni
World Ban+k   18515                       H.
on



Figure 4.2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
FIELD ORGANIZATION
TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT
Project
.Manager
Sub-Project Manager
1
Deputy Sub-Project
Manager
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
u ,
r  Chief                       Chief                              Che                          Cif                      _
Guidance and ReA Guidance and Re                               Section for Tech-            Section for Ad-
cruiting Team               cruiting Team                      nical Affaisn             ministrAaive Affairs
Water User Associations               |         _Civii Works Contractors                     
World Sank -19238



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XIl
WATER RESOURCES ORGANIZATION
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND ELECTRIC POWER
DIRECTOR-GENEHAL OF
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT
PLANNiNG ANDE DFETO RATER                  (IRECTORATEOFDIDCAT
PROGRAMMINGi           OFflE                   WMSO  RIAINIRGTO                                                 NIEHN
PROYEK                                                POIAPOE 
C IMANUK                                               P _SD                             PRYE
World Batik -1876



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
PROSIDA MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
DIR. GENERAL
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOP.
| EXPEtHTS         _     A D VA IS O RYGHOtJP|
CHIEF                                  CHIEF                    C
ENGINEERING                             OP. & MAIN.              AOMl ISTR.
gDEPUTY CitliEF  |     DEUYCHIE 
|ENG./CONSfHLUC. |     |ENG.tSUHV -ES
ASSI| TO THE                                                                ASSV. FOR                ASST. fOt
GEN. MANAG.  |         SUPEfV CONST                                         0 S&. M                  FINANCE
|ASSFOHAST.FOlJ ASST. FOR  ASST. FOR
BILDNG/AC.|DENHYDROLOG  GEN AFFAIR
ASST FOR             A
MECH. EQUIP. BUDGETIRREP.                             AGRICOLT.            I
| SUB PROJECT |   | SUE. PROJECTS       SUvB  PflOJECTS      SUB. P."JEC I       SUB PROJECT
|E SERIESI          A SERIES            B SEIES                SERIES            D SERIES    |
W->,I B.*m., 1G008



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION XII
PROSIDA SUB-PROJECT ORGANIZATION
CISEDANE DRAINAGE
SUB-PROJECT                                               PROVINCIAL
MANAGER        i                                      AOVISORY GROUP
21
CONStULTANTS   ..s,,..,.uam.us..guu..um,mmmu,us.uma.DEPUTY SUB PROJECT
MANAGER
_                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~DEPtJTY   -DEPOTl
DEPI ITY r & M                                            ENGINEERING                                             ADMINISTRATION
2/  2/                                               2 1              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
SUHVE & -  CONSTRUCTION           MECHANICL        ADMINISTRATION        FINANCE         OMTROLLER
0 & M SECTIONS
I/ PROVINCIAL StAFF
2/ PROSIDA STAFF                                                                                                                     World Ha.k--8964
ID
Wori(i Haoik-8964



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT XIl
Tertiary Development, Cisedane Draina9e, Projects
Proposed Croppinig Calendar
iriy      rFev..ry-V     M ... h      Ap,ril   M_     V          Jur-     ._ l_           Au,gst      Sep Iei.. h   uus. e       Nu.b.    __
W-I-s-aon Prda.y
N          _
Tltway Cewloolrp-t 186.000.
Clowdn OIUssW,I 42r0001                                           M                                                                                                      M _
l.a
N           _
Te-rtary D0.'io llfetk 1ie7,00o  h.T
C ldac     i Orein e  20.1)0 hi.
_                                ~     ~     ~~~~~~~H_
SecanWrvy C,opg                                            C                                                   C
Te.rnry Del.wors t 47.000 he                                 t M                                                  M
Cmsdee. Drw.** 8.0r0 h.                                                                        H                                                    H
Nt tosain:
C  - CultivatIon           600
N     Nmrr,y
T  -T,"Asris.n
M  - Management
H  - Harest_
400 tn_I                  -                     _                ___
3.41
3000 
........... Clowd.ne Dra-.                          234
Tertiary Oevetapsnr                               j   208
2003        -    _ ____ ___________    w   AJ                                                                                                101  -t  --
200   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~27                                                                                                                   9
160~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
16           1643
_ X _ - = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................ ...   ..... b e
100                           -                                                                                                 oi
7 2                        79
W2
Wil [drU.,,   19234






103    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~. ~~~~~~~~~~~IBID 13706
Sbolgo                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~MALAYSIA
B,.~g G.di,
S.,dy A-'s
D0n.o.  Swody Ai..
A L I M AN TA N
0                   I
3-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I, BOld  boO                   ~~~~~~~BELITUN G                                              7'1.8
dy A.-                                                        20.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L WESI
b.     ODO     Inpr h. 0  O                                                                                                                       N¶#.s  08010
8,600 h  ~ ~           ~           ~           ~          o4 V: A                         S ,4E      
Woy(0Sobo]c 1,25 h.-o.                         24.,Sbo8u,PO
6-                        W4y KOb.*                                                        t. .L.4  O,L48
iRRIGATION #*ojIC1 xit                            '         ~          ~          -13    ~o~                                        0400
I8RI~~ATlQ8'~~O~iE0Th1.X1  -~~~ji  4'Ar..      ~     ~        jr.eo~~g o,rFlares                                                                                                   Sea
ROADII                                                                                     S. kAr,S.y.lBe  .,i0~
-   -  I~TERNAr9NALSqu~$~                                                                                                                                                                                                  P0ICIrnNES
9*                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0401.8' 0~~~~~~~~~nv  KIFVxPHL"IE
~~    P50.1.~~~~4~   -"W
11 /V  I A  N  0  c  9                                                                                                                         N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALU0TN
0  90  20                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,}   uLwsIRIOJ9
Ica,BSTh.                                                                                                                                       ~       d1b8.r~   Wo*,8  r r.m.i.o






IBRD 13780
H- S9   a2.                          106,30'                              106, 35'                            106 4Q0                             106°45'      OCTOER 1978
-A                a            a         ]                                                                                                    SecodrCa v a  :ae  s
< N 0 INDONE51A                      ;                     Primaty Carnois
- a ) ; X ;; u A D -- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary Conols
Indian Oeecrr                                                           IRRIGATION  PROJECT  )XIl                                                   Droins orRivers
-9- 17                                                                                                                                                 Drains or Rivers to be Rehabilitated ind udingEmbankments
t ,t :A II                                  i: r    SEDANEDRAINAGE PROJECT. -                                                      Existing Roads
- = ; -      Districf Road to be Constructed or Rehabilitoted by D PU K
Inspection Roods to be Constructed or Rehobilitoted
A   VA                      S     A                             ;         ;Emonkments to be Constructed
6-00'                                                                                                                    U x                          Flooded Areas                                       6°00'
Sub-projett Boundary
9SXi    e  . := p .6 1  2  3  4  0 6  7  8
X _ ,<,}, S ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                     1f   X            /         h  2  *  4  5
onT 1 -                                   k 1  /                                              10
got ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'                                                               WM
10.520'  106~~~~~~~~2            106~~~~~30'                          106~~~~~35                          106%t0                               10645'~~~~g..g.



