Document of                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2432-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
December 11, 1978
X This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C28290/J33410/D1836/A-28   Dec. 8
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /a
US$1           =  Rp 415
Rp 1           =  US$0.0024
Rp 1 million  =  US$2,410
ABBREVIATIONS
BIMAS           -  Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan "Mass Guidance
for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" a farm input-credit
package program
BULOG/DOLOG    -  Badan Urusan Logistick - "National Logistics Body"
- rice procurement agency/Depo Logistik - provincial
branch of BULOG
BUUD            -  Bahan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village
Unit Cooperative
DGWRD           -  Director(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
DIP             -  Project Implementation Budget
GOI             -  Government of Indonesia
HYV             -  High Yielding Variety
INMAS           -  Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification"
- a farm input program
INPRES          -  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a rural public works program
IPEDA           -  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
KUD             -  Koperasi Unit desa - Village Unit Cooperative
O&M             -  Operation and Maintenance
P4S             -  Proyek Pembukaan Persawahan Pasang Surut - an executive
unit in the DGWRD
Pelita          -  Five-Year Development Plan
PROSIDA         -  Proyek Irigasi IDA - Agency of DGWRD created to execute
IDA-assisted projects
PUSDIKLAT       -  Pusat Pendidikan dan Latihan Kerja - "Center for Education
and Training"
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
/a  The Rupiah was devalued on November 15, 1978 from Rp 415 to the equivalent
of Rp 625 to the US dollar. The project was appraised and negotiated on
the basis of Rp 415 and the figures estimated in this report are based on
this exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Amount:           $77.0 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:            Twenty years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 7.35% p.a.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would: (a) assist the Government's program
of further upgrading its existing irrigation systems at rela-
tively low cost in order to increase food production; and (b)
facilitate the movement of agricultural products, inputs and
services. The project consists of two construction components:
Jatiluhur Tertiary Development (186,000 ha), and Cisedane Drainage
(5,000 ha) and Inspection and Access Roads (230 km); and a Studies
and Investigations component for the preparation of future
drainage and tidal land development projects. Following
completion of construction, the project would benefit about
425,000 families and would increase food production by 425,000
tons per year. Risks would be normal for projects of this kind.
Estimated Cost:  The table below summarizes the estimated cost of the project:
Local    Foreign    Total
------$  million-------
Tertiary Development                    26.9      20.5       47.4
Cisedane Drainage                       12.5      11.9       24.4
Studies and Investigations               3.6       7.3       10.9
Base cost                         43.0       39.7      82.7
Physical contingencies                   7.5       6.7       14.2
Price contingencies                     11.7       9.9       21.6
Total project cost                62.2       56.3     118.5
Financing Plan: The proposed loan of $77 million would cover the full foreign
exchange cost of the project and $20.7 million of local
costs. The remaining cost ($41.5 million) would be met by the
Government.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                    ------------- ($ million) ------------
Bank FY          1979    1980    1981    1982    1983        1984
Annual            0.5    15.5    25.0    20.5    12.0         3.5
Cumulative        0.5    16.0    41.0    61.5    73.5        77.0
Rate of Return:  A weighted average of 41%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 2232b-IND, dated December 1, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.              I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $77 million to help
finance a Twelfth Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including five years of grace, with interest at 7.35% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent Devel-
opments, Short-Term Prospects and Development Issues," of April 26, 1978
(2026-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on April 28, 1978. A
new Basic Economic Report which is currently being finalized will be submitted
to the Executive Directors in the next few months.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-1973/74),/2
the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almost completed. Transport,
power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after years of
neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. Agricultural output expanded
at an average rate of 4.5% a year and the foundations of modern industry -
fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this period, GNP realized an
annual 9% growth and gross domestic investment increased rapidly, rising
from 9% to 19% of GNP.
4.        With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), and with rehabilitation virtually completed the Government began
to emphasize a course of long-term development which would assure not
only a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a wider distribution of
income. Progress in these respects has been mixed. While there has been
considerable further improvement in the country's physical and social
infrastructure (power, roads, telecommunications, education, family planning),
much of the Government's attention and efforts have been focused on short-
term issues, the rate of economic growth rate has tended to slacken, and
public concern with equitable distribution of income has grown. The first
two years of the Plan were dominated by developments in the oil sector -
the sharp increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's serious financial
difficulties. The latter arose from Pertamina's undertaking of a large and
diverse investment program without arranging satisfactory financing. In
most respects, the Government managed the Pertamina crisis well. However
the episode seriously strained the Government's budgetary resources and
Indonesia's balance of payments, and led to a sharp decline in the foreign
exchange reserves. The following two years (1976/77 and 1977/78) wit-
nessed a substantial improvement in the balance of payments. The rate of
/1 This part is substantially the same as that contained in the President's
Report No. 2424-IND, dated December 7, 1978, for the Polytechnic Project.
/2 Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.



- 2 -
domestic inflation also declined. During 1976/77 Indonesia's exports
recovered strongly (following improvements in the world economy), and rose
to a higher level than anticipated. These trends continued into 1977/78,
and resulted in substantial additions to the foreign exchange reserves,
which have averaged well over $2 billion (or about four months of imports)
since early 1977.
5.        The Government's budgetary position also improved in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also exceeded the
amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of Government efforts to curb smuggling
and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional revenues,
together with continued restraint on current expenditures, enabled the
Government not only to increase development expenditures substantially
but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, and contributed to
bringing down the inflation rate to 14% a year compared to 20% in 1975/76.
The Government budget tightened in 1977/78, since oil as well as non-oil
revenues rose more modestly while current expenditures rose more rapidly
largely due to an overdue general increase in civil servant salaries. As
a result, budgetary savings declined in real terms for the first time in
recent years. Nevertheless, through a cautious monetary policy, the
inflation rate was further reduced to about 11%.
6.        The substantial increase in oil revenues since 1974 has been
largely invested. Government development expenditures more than quadrupled
from 1973/74 to 1977/78 when they amounted to Rp 2.2 trillion (or about
$5 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation, this
represented a real increase of over 30% a year. Over this period, the rate
of gross domestic investment averaged about 20.5% of GNP. However, this
high level of investments has so far failed to increase the rate of growth
of the Indonesian economy; in the first four years of Indonesia's Second
Development Plan (1974/75-1977/78) the annual rate of growth of GNP, at
slightly less than 7% has, in fact, been slower than that in the First Plan
period. The world recession, slackening agricultural output and domestic
inflation (which made some domestic industries uncompetitive with imports),
all had a dampening effect on the growth of the economy. In addition, public
investments in recent years have been concentrated on relatively capital-
intensive industrial and infrastructure projects with long gestation periods.
Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from investments in such
sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc., depends on the growth in
demand which in turn is determined by the growth of the rest of the economy,
mainly the private sector, which has failed to provide the necessary momentum
to growth. The indications are that private investment rose only modestly
in recent years for a number of reasons including the Government's attempts
to control domestic inflation and to encourage indigenous (pribumi) investors,
and the uncertain state of the world economy.
7.        Between 1961 and 1971, the population of Indonesia grew by 2.1%
annually; with high fertility rates, increasing longevity and an age distri-
bution heavily weighted towards the younger groups, there was a widespread



- 3 -
expectation that growth would further accelerate, and reach at least 2.3% over
the 1971-1976 period. Yet the Inter-Censal Population Survey of March 1976
has revealed that the growth rate was actually reduced to 2.0% and that
Indonesia's population stood at 131.3 million in March 1976, about 4 million
less than had been expected. Further declines in mortality may actually
raise the growth rate once again, but it is now anticipated that the population
will not reach 200 million until the late 1990s - later than had been earlier
projected.
8.        The most outstanding and encouraging feature to emerge from recent
data was a marked decline in fertility levels in Java and Bali. The total
fertility rate for Java and Bali declined from 5.3 in 1971 to 4.9 in 1976, a
drop of almost 10%. The National Family Planning Program, which began in
1970 and enjoys strong political backing and support from major religious and
other private organizations, is believed to be an important reason for the
fertility decline. The program was extended to the ten most populous provinces
in the Other Islands in 1974/75. Fertility rates in the Other Islands have
also fallen - from 6.3 to 6.1 between 1971 and 1976 - but the decline is less
pronounced. Mortality rates also differ markedly. Life expectation in the
Other Islands is 47 years as against 49 years in Java. Moreover, the gap
itself appears to be widening, although mortality rates are diminishing
everywhere.
9. -      Information on employment and wages is incomplete and not very
reliable, but there are indications that the growth in opportunities for
gainful employment has about kept pace with the growth of the labor force
since 1970. Real wages do not seem to have fallen. This is encouraging,
since many of the changes that are taking place in agricultural production
and processing techniques, including improved transportation, mechanical rice
hulling, etc., are of a labor saving nature. It is evident that farming on
Java is increasingly becoming a part-time activity, that landlessness is
becoming more common and that a growing proportion of Java's rural population
is primarily or exclusively dependent on the sale of their labor to earn an
income. The need for greater emphasis on the promotion of labor-intensive
export industries and the development of small and medium-scale rural indus-
tries deserves high priority in the formulation of future development plans.
10.       Perhaps the most worrying development in recent years has been
the slowdown in the rate of growth of agricultural production, particularly
of rice. For 1977, rice production was estimated at 15.9 million tons,
about the same as the previous year, and almost 10% below the Second Plan
target for that year. The domestic price of rice has been kept stable only
by means of very substantial imports. In 1976/77, rice imports amounted to
1.6 million tons, and in 1977/78 reached 2.3 million tons, or over 12%
of domestic consumption and more than 25% of total world trade in rice. The
stagnation in rice output in 1976/77 and 1977/78 is primarily the result of
successive droughts and, in Java, the wereng (brown plant hopper) infestation.
Although the preliminary indications for 1978 suggest a very good harvest with
a 10% increase of both dry and wet season rice output over 1977, it is clear
that long-term expansion of food crop production and a substantial reduction
in rice imports, require prompt assessment of available land and water resources,



-4-
accelerated construction of irrigation and drainage facilities, acceleration
in land settlement and transmigration programs based on food crop production
and, most importantly, expansion and strengthening of agricultural support
services, particularly for non-rice food crops. Given the magnitude of this
task, the Government is not anticipating an agricultural growth rate of much
more than 3.5% per year in the Third Plan Period (1979/80-1983/84).
11.       The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of a large foreign debt and some burdensome ongoing investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of 1976, together
with a hardening of average terms during those years, have raised the level
of debt service payments which are now expected to reach about $1.5 billion
in 1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of $575 million remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling
$1 billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to $3.2 billion in 1976 and to $1.9 billion in
1977. Most of the decline was achieved through a reduction in commercial
borrowing. This means that average loan terms have recently begun to soften
again, which will be reflected in future debt service payments.
12.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.75 billion in 1978/79, including both loans and grants, of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in May 1978 the indications of probable commitments in 1978/79 made
by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to $1.6 billion; the
meeting concluded that the Bank recommendations would be approximately
met.
13.       As a result of the pattern and terms of external borrowing during
the recent past, net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline
in 1978/79 to about $500 million, even if the recommended level of new ODA
commitments is reached. At the same time, there is a growing doubt that
crude oil production can be increased much above the current level of 1.7 mil-
lion barrels a day during the next few years. Oil exploration activity in
Indonesia has remained much below the peak of 1975 partly as a result
of the renegotiation of the oil contracts in 1976 and partly on account of a
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



-5-
U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) ruling which declared the oil revenues with-
held by the Government of Indonesia as royalties rather than tax for the purpose
of allowing income tax credit to the U.S. companies operating in Indonesia.
In the meantime, no large new oil fields have been discovered and, although
the Government has now offered improved incentives to the oil companies and
revised the contracts to meet the IRS objections, it is not certain that the
exploration activity would revive soon enough to make up for the time lost.
14.       Our overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts indicates
that, while foreign exchange will be scarcer over the coming years, Indonesia
would be able to finance essential imports of consumer, intermediate and
capital goods and still meet its debt service obligations. However, the
relative decline in oil revenues will have serious budgetary consequences.
Although the November 15 rupiah devaluation (para. 16 below) will provide a
one time revenue windfall, the Government will need to raise substantial
additional non-oil revenues over the coming years if the relatively high
rate of domestic investment already reached is to be maintained. The Govern-
ment has been quite cautious in increasing current expenditures and there
does not appear to be much scope for reducing them further; they should, in
fact, rise in step with the growth in GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable
growth in Government salaries as well as materials expenditures, a significant
part of which is development related. Nevertheless, despite the Government's
efforts to limit current expenditures and raise domestic revenue, there is
likely to be a serious domestic resource constraint in the coming years.
15.       The Government is fully aware of the serious concerns regarding
Indonesia's future development discussed above and has made them the focus
of the Third Development Plan (Repelita III), due to commence in April 1979 and
currently under preparation by the Government. In a parallel and supportive
effort, Bank staff are currently finalizing a Basic Economic Report which
will review the major development problems facing Indonesia, covering in depth
such issues as domestic and foreign resource mobilization, as well as trends
and outlook for agricultural growth, industrialization, population, employment,
and income distribution. This report should be ready in early 1979.
16.       On November 15, 1978, the Rupiah was devalued from Rp 415 to
Rp 625 to the US dollar. Simultaneously, the link between the US dollar and
the Rupiah was replaced by a link with a basket of currencies of Indonesia's
major trading partners. It is expected that this rate adjustment will
facilitate the promotion of non-oil export growth, especially labor-intensive
exports. The adjustment will also ease the present local currency revenue
constraints (para. 14 above) facing Government. To prevent the possibility
of an upturn in domestic inflation eroding the benefits of this devaluation,
supportive measures will be introduced domestically. The timing of this
adjustment, just prior to Repelita III at a point when Indonesia's reserves
are healthy and following an excellent rice harvest, was most opportune. It
is too early, however, to assess the full economic implication of this sub-
stantial rate adjustment.



- 6 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
17.      As of October 31, 1978, Indonesia had received 39 IDA credits totalling
$630.8 million, and 35 Bank loans amounting to $1,772.0 million. IFC investments
have totalled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's total
(disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977 was about 8%, and the
share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of 1978, these ratios are expected
to increase to around 12% and 5%, respectively. Annex II contains a summary
of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments as of October 31, 1978, as well
as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recently, a major effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has
been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the
quality of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education. In the social sector,
the Bank Group has financed projects for urban development (through neighborhood
improvement programs), urban water supply, family planning, and nutrition.
A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate and
expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power and
transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a tele-
communications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group has
assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its development
programs and projects through four technical assistance credits and a loan
for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
19.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for
a development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing
labor force and increase agriculture production, particularly of food crops.
Efforts to increase employment through programs directed towards improving
the incomes of the poor and their living standards are expected to be one of
the major objectives of the Third Development Plan (1979-80-1983/84) which is
now in the final stage of preparation. The work of the Basic Economic Mission
(para. 15) is designed to assist the Government in formulating a coherent
set of programs and policies to achieve these objectives. While several of
these programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group financing, it will
be some time before they are ready for implementation. However, as part of
this new focus, a small enterprise development project designed to increase
non-agricultural employment in rural areas and small towns, has already been



- 7 -
approved by the Executive Directors, and an integrated rural development
project has been appraised and should be ready for presentation to the Execu-
tive Directors this fiscal year. With respect to agriculture development,
projects are being prepared to further improve and expand research and exten-
sion services, rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems, help replant small-
holder rubber and coconut plantations, assist in watershed management and
village development, and develop presently under-utilized land in areas out-
side Java for transmigrants and other smallholders. In addition to the family
planning program, which continues to have high priority, other areas
of particular importance for Bank Group assistance will be improvement of
urban services through construction of urban water supply systems and further
expansion of neighborhood improvement programs, and improvement and expansion
of higher education particularly of engineers, accountants and agriculture
specialists, as well as primary and nonformal education. Finally, Bank Group
financing continues to be important for the Government's program of infrastruc-
ture rehabilitation and expansion, particularly in transport and power, which
will continue to require very large investments for many years before these
facilities are adequate to support Indonesia's development. Compared to past
lending activities, many of these projects and programs reflect the shift of
emphasis in Government's development objectives from rehabilitation and
expansion to a better balanced and more equitable and employment-oriented
eccnomic growth strategy.
20.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968 and between 1968 and
1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has saved
and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded its development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in 1977/78.
For reasons discussed in Part I above, and notwithstanding the recent devalua-
tion, both the budgetary and balance of payments situations may be difficult
in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always qualified for assistance
on concessional terms on grounds of its low per capita income ($300 in 1977) /1
and the quality of its economic management, such terms are now also necessary
to enable it to maintain a high level of investment without impairing its
ability to service its external debt. Accordingly, starting in FY78, a
portion of Bank Group lending to Indonesia has again been provided on IDA terms.
21.      In the past few years, the Bank Group has, from time to time, financed
part of the local cost of projects with a low foreign exchange component,
particularly in the social sectors, in order to make a meaningful contribution
to the financing of these projects. As noted in Part I, Indonesia still faces
a difficult financial situation, in part for reasons outside its control.
Despite the Government's efforts to increase its non-oil revenues and limit
the growth of current expenditures, Government savings in real terms are
likely to increase very slowly. At the same time, the Government is attemp-
ting to increase development expenditures, particularly for employment-
creating programs, as well as for programs and projects in agriculture
/1 Based on Rp 415 = US$1.0



and the social sectors, the costs of which are largely in local currency.
The Bank Group cannot provide adequate assistance to the Government's overall
development effort if it limits its financing to the foreign exchange cost of
projects. It is therefore proposed that Bank Group lending should include a
portion of the local costs, particularly in the case of projects designed to
create non-farm employment and raise agricultural production.
22.       The proposed loan is the second lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to Indonesia
this year to $126.0 million. Projects for agricultural training, rubber
replanting, rural and urban development, transmigration, development finance
company (BAPINDO), water supply, technical assistance, road betterment and
power are expected to be ready for presentation in the next several months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
23.       Objectives.  The major national objectives in the agricultural and
rural sector in Indonesia are to:  (a) create productive employment to raise
the incomes of the rural poor, (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace
with rising demand, (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder
tree crops, and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.
24.       Role and Performance.  Although agriculture's contribution to GDP
and export has declined during the past 15 years (from 55% to 33% and from
55% to 23%, respectively), the rural sector remains of overwhelming importance
to the vast majority of the Indonesian people in terms of employment, incomes
and food production. Some 80% of the country's 135.5 million people /1 live
in rural areas, and agriculture employs about two-thirds of the total labor
force. Except for oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholder
production; there are some 14.4 million smallholders producing subsistence
and cash crops on 14.2 million ha. There are also 1,800 estates occupying
2.2 million ha producing mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil and tobacco.
Over the past five years, the growth rate of agricultural production has been
uneven, averaging 4% p.a. while total GDP grew at 8% p.a.
25.       Development Problems and Potentials.  In Java, the cultivable land
is almost fully utilized, and in some areas agricultural land use already
exceeds ecologically safe limits. In 1976 about 82 million people lived in
Java, which has 45% of the cropped area but only 7% of Indonesia's land area.
About one-third of Java's rural population is landless, and a large proportion
of the remainder cannot support themselves on incomes from their own farms.
Outside Java there are large areas of unused cultivable land, less fertile
than those in Java, and other natural resources to be exploited. While the
inhabitants of these Islands do not have high standards of living, they are
generally better off than most in rural Java.
/1 Estimate for mid-1978 based on the Inter-Censal Population Survey of
Mlarch 1976.



-9-
Development Strategies
26.       Employment.  Perhaps the single most important challenge facing the
Indonesian Government is to guide and structure the development process in
such a way that the creation of new opportunities for gainful employment
at least keeps pace with the growth of the labor force. The changes associated
with modernization in rural Java are generally labor-saving, so that farming
is increasingly becoming a part-time activity. Modern manufacturing and
services have been unable to fully absorb the incremental labor force. Success-
ful locally administered public rural works programs (INPRES) may be difficult
to expand due to limited budget and implementation capacity. Future employment
strategy will include stress on labor-intensive export industries and small-
scale rural enterprises producing for the domestic market. There may also be
potential for more productive agricultural employment through increased
cropping intensity and a shift to higher value crops and livestock, including
fruits and vegetables grown on house compounds.
27.       Food Crops.  Despite the heavy emphasis on rice production in the
past, the gap between domestic production of and demand for food appears to be
widening. Production of rice and the principal non-rice food crops has not
kept pace with growth in aggregate demand over the past few years. To keep rice
imports at some reasonable fraction of world rice trade, demand must be shifted
to other domestic and imported staples, and the rate of growth of rice production
should ideally approach 4% p.a., compared to an average of 3.5% p.a. over the
past decade and only 1.7% over 1974-77./i Improved water management and agri-
cultural supporting services are essential for increasing rice yields and
production. On Java, there remains much scope for more efficient water use
through construction and/or improvement of additional tertiary and quaternary
canals. On the Other Islands, there is considerable potential for new
irrigation systems, including tidal and swamp land development. On both Java
and the Other Islands, secondary food crops also offer promising development
prospects. For example, there is much room for yield improvement through
intensified research and supporting services, and great scope for the expansion
in harvested area if stable cropping systems can be developed. A food policy
which emphasizes secondary crop production as well as rice would serve the
twin goals of growth and equity, as many of the poorest parts of Java and the
Other Islands are best suited to dry land farming.
28.       Tree Crops.  The Government .has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder tree crops outside Java as part of its transmigration
and national rubber and coconut replanting programs. The objective is to
improve production on existing blocks while developing large areas of new
land for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches has been to use
public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by local
landless families and transmigrants. The estate companies provide a range of
services including planting material, land clearing and planting, inputs,
processing and marketing facilities for the smallholders. This approach is
appropriate in view of Indonesia's scarce managerial and technical capabilities.
/1 This low growth rate was the result of below average harvests caused by
inadequate and untimely rainfall in many areas of Java and by pest and
disease damage to high yielding varieties. Production from the 1977/78
crop is reported to be much improved.



- 10 -
29.       Transmigration.  Transmigration offers substantial opportunities for
improving social equity and the economic use of Indonesia's two main under-
employed resources: Javanese labor and land on the Other Islands. Transmigra-
tion has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations about its potential
contribution to regional development and the solution of Java's population
problems, organizational difficulties, overambitious targets and weak,
uncoordinated implementation. These problems are now being addressed, and the
Bank is engaged in a wide-ranging discussion with the Government on its trans-
migration program and the manner in which the Bank can assist. Organizational
aspects of transmigration, the design of farming systems, and the package of
services which will support successful, long-term settlement are amongst the
issues being examined.
30.       The Role of the Government.  The capacity of the Indonesian
Government to plan and implement agricultural and rural development programs
has generally improved over the past decade. However, future programs
responsive to the Government's stated objectives will necessarily be more
complex than those which the Government has followed up to now. They will
require closely coordinated "packages" of research, extension, inputs,
credit, land development, transportation and marketing improvements. Multi-
agency integrated area development programs on Java and land settlement
schemes on the Other Islands will require stronger field organizations of
Government line agencies and local governmental authorities, as well as new
administrative arrangements. With the more complex organizational require-
ments of future programs, implementation capacity is likely to become the
limiting factor in Indonesia's economic and social development. It is,
therefore, of the utmost importance that the Government continue its efforts
to strengthen key rural development institutions.
31.       Bank Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between the
Bank and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed
for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis
to be given to different investments and on the technical design of some
projects, such differences are not profound and are likely to be resolved
with further analysis and dialogue. The Bank is devoting considerable staff
time to various analyses of the rural sector (e.g., employment, irrigation
development, support services, and food crop production).
32.       The Bank has been, and should continue to be, involved in a broad
range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia. Since the First
Irrigation Project in 1968, the Bank has rapidly expanded its agricultural
and rural lending to include support for estate and smallholder tree crops,
fertilizer production and distribution, sugar estates, support services,
transmigration, livestock and fisheries. An integrated rural development
project is currently being appraised. Credits already closed and for which
Project Completion Reports have been prepared (e.g. Estates I, Irrigation I)
showed excellent rates of return ranging from 25% to 33%. Taking 1974 as the
base year, Bank-assisted projects will contribute almost 60% of the increase
in palm oil output by 1980, about 16% of incremental sugar production and 6%
of incremental rice and rubber. Four continuing trends in the Bank's
agricultural lending to Indonesia are: (a) a shift from rehabilitation



- 11 -
to new development activities; (b) a shift from support of state enterprises
to direct support of smallholders; (c) an increased emphasis on rainfed
systems; and (d) greater emphasis on development of the Other Islands. All
these trends are consistent with the Government's changing policies.
The Irrigation Subsector
33.        Rice is the dominant irrigated crop in Indonesia.  Of an estimated
8.4 million ha of rice harvested in 1977, 7.2 million ha were irrigated or
grown under wet land conditions. Irrigation systems cover a service area of
about 5 million ha, of which about 4 million ha are of a quality which is
adequate for irrigated rice production; Java accounts for 60% of the irrigated
area. Average paddy yields on Java, are about 3.2 ton/ha, compared with 2.8
ton/ha on the Other Islands. Although irrigation has long been a major
feature of Indonesian agriculture, by the late 1960s the systems built during
the colonial period were in a state of complete disrepair. Irrigation develop-
ment during the first two development plan periods concentrated heavily on
the rehabilitation of these systems. Construction of new systems, mainly to
serve as the basis for transmigration projects outside Java, lagged behind.
34.       With the rehabilitation of most irrigation systems existing in
Java either completed or under way, future irrigation development in
Indonesia will shift to the construction of new gravity systems and swamp and
tidal land development outside Java. This shift does not mean, however,
that irrigation development on Java should stop. Many of the existing
systems still need to be fully rehabilitated or upgraded at relatively low
cost, and the limited potential for large storage and groundwater should
be developed to expand dry season cropping as far as economically feasible.
Furthermore, water management is not efficient in Java; additional tertiary
and quaternary construction works are needed. A recent Bank review of
Indonesia's irrigation program /1 concluded that to expand rice production at
the same rate as demand (about 4% per year), the level of annual investment
in irrigation should be increased by about 20% by the end of the Third
Five-Year Plan (1984). This in turn would require strengthening of the
Directorate-General of Water Resources Development, training and staff
development, and agricultural supporting services.
35.       The Bank Group agricultural operations in Indonesia were evaluated
in an OED Report dated August 9, 1978, No. 2166 (SecM 78-649). The OED
conclusions were that, despite some deficiencies, Bank-financed agricultural
projects have been of overall good quality and are likely to contribute
substantially to increased production. Shortcomings identified in the
Report were: delays in construction of tertiary and quaternary canals due to
reluctance of farmers to provide labor at wage rates lower than traditionally
received under the gotong royong (self help) system; lack of adequate agricul-
tural support services (extension services, research, inputs); insufficient
operation and maintenance funds and personnel; shortages of skilled staff in
implementing agencies and heavy reliance on foreign advisors for project
preparation and execution; and lack of emphasis on evaluating socio-economic
/1 Bank Report No. 2027a-IND, "Indonesia - Irrigation Program Review,"
October 16, 1978.



- 12 -
aspects. The OED Report commented, inter alia, that there is still a gap in
the Bank's knowledge about the social and institutional factors relating to
the reasons why tertiary network development has lagged. Bank staff involved
with this proposed project examined the available evidence and concluded that,
under the circumstances, the financing of tertiary development in Jatiluhur
was economically justified, in line with Government policy, and would not
run counter to traditional social and institutional patterns.
36.       In March 1978 the Government made a major policy decision concerning
tertiary and quaternary construction. Hitherto, the Government had limited
its assistance to building the structures, with earthwork being carried out
under gotong royong by farmers/landless laborers or in conjunction with the
INPRES rural works program. Under the new policy, contractors engaged to
build the structures and canals would employ farmers/landless laborers to do
earthwork at prevailing wage rates. This procedure, already adopted by the
Jatiluhur Authority for the construction of about 12,000 ha of tertiaries
under Loan 1268-IND, has been very successful in achieving a speedy completion
of both structures and canals, and the quality of earthwork in the completed
systems has consistently been superior to that carried out under gotong royong
in other areas.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was prepared by the semi-autonomous Jatiluhur
Authority, and by Proyek Irigasi IDA (PROSIDA), an executive unit of the
DGWRD in the Ministry of Public Works, with consultant assistance from Sir
William Halcrow and Partners (UK) and P.T. Virama Karya (Indonesia). The
project was appraised in June 1978. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2232b-IND
dated December 1, 1978) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington
from from November 8 to 15, 1978, with the Indonesian delegation led by
Mr. Suyono Sosrodarsono, Director-General of Water Resources Development.
38.       The project would assist the Government's program of further
upgrading at relatively low cost its recently rehabilitated irrigation systems
and establishing good water control, timely and equitable water distribution
and optimal utilization of available water supplies. It would intensify crop
production and facilitate the movement of agricultural products, inputs and
services in the command areas of these systems. The studies and investigations
component would assist in preparing future flood control and drainage projects,
as well as projects for tidal land development.
Features of the Project
39.       The project consists of two construction components and a studies
and investigations component. It would include tertiary development /1 on
186,000 ha within the service area of the Jatiluhur irrigation system in West
/1 Tertiary development includes the construction of tertiary and quaternary
irrigation canals and drains.



- 13 -
Java: improvement of flood control, drainage and road networks within the
42,000 ha Cisedane irrigation system in West Java; and studies and investiga-
tions for future flood control and drainage projects in the command areas of
the Pemali-Comal irrigation system in Central Java and the Sadang irrigation
system in South Sulawesi, and for future tidal land development projects in
South Sumatera (340,000 ha) and Central Kalimantan (120,000 ha).
40.       The area served by irrigation systems currently under the jurisdic-
tion of the Jatiluhur Authority is about 304,000 ha. Of this, about 200,000 ha
were rehabilitated under the Second Irrigation Project (Credit 195-IND); about
58,000 ha are being upgraded and constructed under the Fifth and Eleventh
Irrigation Projects (Cr. 514-IND and Ln. 1579-IND); and the remaining 46,000
ha have been rehabilitated by the Government without outside assistance.
Tertiary development in the Jatiluhur area is already being assisted by the
Bank Group under the Fifth (50,000 ha), Seventh (Ln. 1268-IND) (25,000 ha) and
Eleventh (8,000 ha) Irrigation Projects; the Government is constructing ter-
tiaries for 35,000 ha with its own funds. Tertiary development on 186,000 ha
under the proposed project would ensure full coverage of the Jatiluhur area by
1983.
41.       The tertiary systems would be designed and constructed to the
standards developed under Loan 1268-IND, with modifications to design criteria
and construction procedures introduced by the DGWRD in early 1978 to reduce
the land area taken up by canals, ensure equitable water distribution to
downstream users and minimize O&M costs of the completed systems. Tertiary
and quaternary canals in these systems would deliver water down to about 10 ha
units; within these units, water would flow from field to field. The Jatiluhur
Authority, with consultant assistance, would design and lay out the canals
and structures, and local contractors would build them. This is consistent
with the new policy of the Government outlined in para. 36 above.
42.       The proposed project would also provide for the construction of
about 259 new staff houses in the Jatiluhur area to supplement the 286 houses
already built under Credits 195/514-IND. These houses would be used by water-
masters, irrigation foremen, and gatekeepers.
43.       Flooding in the Cisedane area occurs on some 45 pockets of low-lying
land (5,000 ha) distributed throughout the area. It is caused by local run-
offs, which exceed the present capacities of the internal drainage systems,
and by overbank flow from rivers with large upstream catchments, which
traverse the area before discharging into the Java Sea. In spite of the
rehabilitation of the Cisedane irrigation system under the First Irrigation
Project (Cr. 127-IND), which was the first Bank Group-financed project in
Indonesia, this drainage problem continues to depress cropping intensities
and yields on the flood-affected areas. Also as a result of poor drainage,
maintenance of the relatively few inspection and access roads had been
extremely difficult and consequently neglected, and the construction of new
roads had been repeatedly put off. The absence of a reasonably dependable
road network in the area has seriously hampered the movement of agricultural
products and inputs, as well as the flow of extension services into the area.
Under the proposed project, all rivers with catchment areas greater than



- 14 -
150 sq km would be isolated from the internal drainage systems by improving
their courses, channels and outlets, and by rehabilitating and raising their
flood embankments. Minor rivers would be incorporated into the internal
drainage syst<-s aftqil irproving their courses, channels and outlets.  Check
and control struictures in the internal drainage systems would preclude sea
water intrusion and prevent fresh water drainage from the systems, thereby
conserving the volume and quality of water available irrigation and domestic
consumption.
44.       Access roads to the Cisedane area would be upgraded by raising low
portions of their embankments, improving existing and constructing new
cross-drainage structures and, where necessary, restoring their base courses
and bituminous surfacing. Bridges on these roads would be rehabilitated
(about 9) or reconstructed (about 19) to enable them to withstand all likely
loading from construction equipment and anticipated traffic.
Organization and Management
45.       Tertiary development in the Jatiluhur area would be carried out
by the Jatiluhur Authority, who are currently executing all works under
Credits 195/514-IND and part of the works under Loans 1268/1579-IND. The
Authority is adequately staffed and well managed and, based on its performance
in implementing ongoing projects, should have no difficulty in carrying out
the tertiary development component.
46.       The Cisedane drainage component and the drainage studies would
be implemented by PROSIDA, an executive body within the DGWRD, which com-
pleted rehabilitation works under Credit 127-IND (now closed) and is wholly
or partly executing the works under seven other Bank-Group assisted projects.
Since its establishment in 1969, PROSIDA has demonstrated an increasing
capability to execute irrigation projects and has gained the reputation of
being one of the most efficient construction agencies in the Ministry of
Public Works. Although some of its former staff now hold key positions in
other Directorates of DGWRD, PROSIDA should have no difficulty in carrying
out the Cisedane drainage component and its other responsibilities with its
present staff.
47.       Studies and investigations for future tidal land development
projects would be supervised by Proyek Pembukaan Persawahan Pasang Surut
(P4S), the executive unit within the DGWRD which is currently supervising
similar studies in Jambi and the Karang Agung area in South Sumatera under
Loan 1268-IND. P4S is adequately staffed and should have no difficulty in
carrying out its added responsibilities under the project. Assurances have
been obtained that the Jatiluhur Authority, PROSIDA and P4S would at all
times be staffed with competent and qualified personnel (Section 3.06 of the
Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance
48.       Small and medium-scale irrigation systems wholly funded by the
Government are currently being investigated, designed and constructed by DGaRD
staff, but the DGWRD relies heavily on consultants for project preparation and



- 15 -
detailed engineering of major works being constructed with Bank assistance. A
preliminary assessment made by the DGWRD training unit with the assistance of
the Center for Education and Training (PUSDIKLAT) in the Ministry of Public
Works has indicated that this reliance on consultants for the detailed
engineering of major works may continue for the next five to ten years, due to
the limited number of trained DGWRD staff available. These consultants, who
are now predominantly expatriate, are expected to be drawn increasingly from
local firms in years to come, due to the inclusion of training provisions for
local counterparts in most expatriate consultants' contracts for the last three
years. Moreover, similar provisions would be made in future DGWRD consultants'
contracts. While the DGWRD will no doubt wish to continue using consultants
to help cope with peak work loads or undertake specific assignments, its aim
is to reduce this reliance on consultants and to upgrade the capability of
DGWRD staff. The training unit has already started making an assessment of
the DGWRD's long-term training and staffing needs; to assist the unit in
carrying out this assessment and in setting up a training program, the proposed
project provides for the services of a training advisor. Provision is also
made for the services of consultants to prepare detailed designs and construc-
tion drawings for the 150,000 ha tertiary development component; prepare
construction drawings and supervise construction of the Cisedane drainage
component; and prepare socio-economic studies/surveys, feasibility studies,
detailed designs and construction drawings, and mapping for future flood
control/drainage and tidal land development projects. In all, about 554
man-months of foreign and 5,210 man-months of local consultants are expected
to be needed. Assurances have been obtained that consultants acceptable to the
Bank, including those to assist in preparing detailed designs and construction
drawings for the first 75,000 ha of tertiary systems, would be engaged, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank by July 31, 1979, and by July
31, 1980 the consultants engaged for the first 75,000 ha of tertiary systems
would be employed to assist with the remaining 75,000 ha. An assurance has
also been obtained that a training advisor, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to both the Bank and
the Government, would be employed by July 31, 1979 (Section 3.02 of the Loan
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing /1
49.       The total project cost is estimated at $118.5 million (exclusive of
direct taxes), with a foreign exchange component of $56.3 million (48%).
Because of inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities for irrigation
/1 The project was apraised and negotiated before the November 15 devaluation
of the Rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 equivalent to the US dollar. The
figures contained in this report are based on the exchange rate prevailing
at appraisal and negotiations. A preliminary assessment of the impact of
the devaluation on the local costs of the project (including contingencies)
indicates that the local costs could rise when expressed in Rupiah terms
from Rp 26 billion to Rp 36 billon and fall in dollar terms from $62 mil-
lion to $58 million. The base cost of the foreign exchange component,
expressed in US dollar terms, would remain unchanged. On this basis, and
taking account of revised price contingencies for foreign exchange costs,
the proposed loan of $77 million would cover 69% of the total project
cost, expressed in US dollar equivalent.



- 16 -
canals and drains, physical contingencies of 20% for civil warks and 10% for
equipment and services have been applied. These contingencies reflect past
experience on similar projects in Indonesia. The estimated price contingencies
assume annual rates of inflation declining from 12% to 8% for civil works,
and constant at 7% for equipment and services. These price increases, which
are based on recent trends, total 22% of the base cost (in December 1978
prices) plus physical contingencies. Consultant costs have been estimated at
$9,000/man-month (including all overheads, housing and travel) for expatriates
and $1,500/man-month for local firms. The proposed Bank loan of $77 million
would finance the project's full foreign exchange cost ($56.3 million) and
$20.7 million of local costs, or 65% of total project costs and about 33% of
local costs. The remaining expenditures ($41.5 million) would be met by annual
Government budgetary allocations.
Procurement
50.       Except for eight vehicles needed to ensure an efficient start-up of
consultants' services and which would be procured under the consultants' con-
tracts, vehicles and equipment for construction and operation ($0.6 million)
would be procured under international competitive bidding procedures in accor-
dance with Bank Guidelines. For purposes of bid evaluation, a preference
equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified domestic manufacturers.
Equipment costing less than $10,000 each and limited to an aggregate total of
$0.4 million which would not be suitable for ICB would be purchased through
normal Government procurement procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
There are sufficient supplies of such goods to ensure adequate competition.
All contracts for vehicles and equipment of $100,000 or more in value would
be submitted to the Bank for review before bidding and award.
51.       The contracts for tertiary structures and staff housing in the
Jatiluhur area, which are relatively small and scattered over a wide area,
are unlikely to be of interest to international contractors. Drainage works
and inspection roads in the Cisedane area, which would be impracticable to
group into large packages because they consist of small, widely scattered
units with a considerable variety of work among them, would similarly be of
little interest to international contractors. These works ($89 million)
would be carried out under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally under Government procedures which have been reviewed
under previous Bank-assisted projects and are acceptable. For tertiary systems,
separate contracts would be awarded for earthwork and structures. Assurances
have been obtained that: (a) except for tertiary structures, the works would
be grouped into a number of suitable contracts (minimum value $250,000) that
would enable large local contractors and joint ventures of small local firms
to bid within the classes for which Government regulations require them to be
prequalified; (b) to minimize late construction starts, tenders would be
advertised as bid documents are completed and bids would be processed even
before the project implementation budget (DIP) is signed, although contract
award and signing would only be done after the DIP is approved; (c) price
escalation clauses would be included in contracts extending beyond one year;



- 17 -
and (d) for contracts estimated to cost $1,000,000 or more, documents would
be submitted to the Bank for review before bidding and award (Schedule 4,
para. B.1 of the Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
52.       Disbursements of the proposed loan would cover 70% of total costs
for civil works (excluding earthwork for the tertiary systems); 100% of
total expenditures for consultants' services, including mapping, training and
8 start-up vehicles: 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
goods; 95% of local expenditures for locally manufactured goods; and 65% for
imported goods procured locally. There would be no disbursement against
earthwork for tertiary systems. For tertiary construction, disbursements
would be made at 100% of the cost of structures, provided the withdrawal
application is accompanied by a certificate from the site engineer stating
that the entire tertiary network had been completed (Schedule 1, para. 4 of
the Loan Agreement).
Benefit Monitoring
53.       The monitoring system set up under the Sixth Irrigation Project
(Ln. 1100-IND) would be extended to cover the Jatiluhur and Cisedane areas
included in the proposed project (Section 4.08 of the Loan Agreement).
Agricultural Supporting Services
54.       The major agricultural supporting services (research, credit,
seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, storage and processing) all require strength-
ening in various degrees to maximize benefits from the project. As many of
the constraints extend across the agricultural sector, they can only be
solved on a sector-wide basis rather than in the context of individual
projects. Significant efforts are already being made to improve the quality
of the major supporting services, several of them with Bank financial assis-
tance. The National Food Crops Extension Project (Ln. 1267-IND) is intro-
ducing the "training and visit" system in both West and Central Java. In the
project areas, farmers are already benefiting from this system. The National
Research and Extension Project (Ln. 1179-IND) is conducting production-oriented
research on paddy and other crops. The Bank is also assisting seed production
and fertilizer production and distribution on a national scale, and is actively
discussing with the Government the construction of village fertilizer stores,
improvement of the management and operation of farmer cooperatives and
initiation of the proposed second agricultural research, agricultural extension,
and seeds projects. The village cooperatives are a focal point for the
supply of inputs, credit and marketing. Credit to cover seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides, crop spraying, and cost of living expenses, is mainly obtained
from Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) under the BIMAS program, which covers some
70% of the wet and dry-season paddy crops in the Jatiluhur tertiary area, and
about 30% of the wet season paddy crop in the Cisedane area. For irrigated
rice production, a farmer can obtain up to $90/ha equivalent in inputs and
cash. To be eligible for the loan, a farmer must demonstrate that he either



- 18 -
owns or is cultivating land and that he is no more than two years overdue on
BIMAS repayments. Assurances have been obtained that adequate agricultural
credit, extension services and inputs are made available to farmers at the
village level in all areas served by the Jatiluhur and Cisedane irrigation
systems under the project (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
55.       Responsibility for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of tertiary
systems in the Jatiluhur area would rest with the Jatiluhur Authority during
construction, after which it would shift to water-user associations within the
systems. Each association would appoint a full time water-master, and one or
more assistant water-masters (depending on the hectarage served by the system),
who would allocate the water to the various users on a day-to-day basis and
carry out needed maintenance and repairs. The salaries of the water-masters,
as well as the cost of materials needed for maintenance and repairs, would be
met by members of the associations. These practices are presently in effect
for completed tertiaries and have generally been found satisfactory. Assurances
have been obtained that water-user associations will be established to par-
ticipate in the construction of the tertiary networks and to operate and
maintain them after construction, and that each association would establish
and collect from its members contributions adequate to cover sound O&M costs
(Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement). PROSIDA would be responsible for O&M
of the Cisedane drainage works and inspection and access roads during, and
for one year after, construction; the West Java Provincial Public Works
department would then take over this responsibility. While arrangements for
staffing and funding O&M of irrigation and drainage works and for inspection
roads along canals and drains have been clearly defined in previous projects,
those for district and village roads constructed or upgraded to provide
access to project works are unclear. Accordingly, assurances have been
obtained that, by December 31, 1981, the Government would prepare and furnish
to the Bank for comment a program for this road maintenance, together with
plans for staffing and funding, and would implement the maintenance program
by April 1, 1982 (Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement). Although the O&M
funding of main and secondary irrigation systems has always been a Provincial
responsibility, the Provinces have thus far been able to meet only about 10%
of the total requirements out of their own revenues; shortfalls have been met
by the Central Government through subsidies to the Provinces. Because of
these subsidies there have been considerable improvements in O&M services in
completed and ongoing Bank-assisted irrigation projects. However, there
is still a need for more trained staff, as well as an increase in Central
Government budgetary allocations for the main and secondary systems. For
FY79/80, the Government proposes to increase the O&M allocation for rehabi-
litated systems to Rp 4,000/ha, and is considering the employment of additional
O&M staff. Assurances have been obtained that adequate 0&M funds would be
allocated to all Bank Group-assisted irrigation, drainage and road systems,
at least half of which would be available in the dry season, and that steps
would be taken to progressively increase the number of qualified needed O&M
staff (Section 4.03 (b) the Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Agricultural Production
56.       Following the completion of tertiary systems in the Jatiluhur area,
the improvement in water control, distribution and utilization of available
water supplies would enable farmers to raise the cropping intensity from 188%
to about 215% and improved water reticulation would encourage them to plant
HYVs on 90% of the area in both the wet and dry seasons. These improvements,
combined with the strengthening of supporting services (particularly extension)
would raise yields of both paddy and secondary crops. It is expected that
paddy yields would increase from 3.8 to 4.5 ton/ha in the wet season and from
3.6 to 4.3 ton/ha in the dry season. The average yield of secondary crops
would rise from 1.0 to 1.2 ton/ha. In the Cisedane drainage area, the
mitigation of flooding would enable farmers to adhere to the cropping calendar,
while the improvement in the area's road network would facilitate the flow of
agricultural products, inputs and services. Since wet-season paddy is
expected to be planted over the entire area on schedule, there would be no
delayed harvest; the dry-season paddy area would increase to 20,000 ha, and
the areas under secondary crops would increase to 8,000 ha. As a consequence,
the overall cropping intensity would increase from 143% to 167%, and paddy
yields are expected to increase to 4.3 ton/ha in the wet season and to 4.2
ton/ha in the dry season. Average yields from secondary crops are projected
to rise to 1.0 ton/ha. At full development, about five years after the
completion of project works, annual incremental production would be 328,100
tons of paddy and 41,400 tons of secondary crops in the Jatiluhur tertiary
development area, and 49,000 tons of paddy and 6,400 tons of secondary crops
in the Cisedane drainage area.
Cost Recovery
57.       Irrigators in Indonesia pay a land tax (IPEDA) assessed as a per-
centage of the value of production and, depending on the intensity of tertiary
development, water charges for O&M of the system below the secondary turnout.
As a result of the Government decision to tie disbursements under its local
infrastructure development program (INPRES) to IPEDA collection performance,
there has been a marked improvement in IPEDA collection in all irrigated
areas in Indonesia. The current average annual IPEDA rates are Rp 7,000/ha
at Jatiluhur and Rp 3,500/ha at Cisedane. At present, about 10% of the IPEDA
collected is used for O&M of the main and secondary systems, the Central
Government provides the balance of funds in the form of subsidies to the
Provincial Government. To ease the burden on the Central Government, the
Government is considering ways to increase 0&1 funding. To this end, assur-
ances have been obtained that, by June 30, 1980, the Government would prepare
and furnish to the Bank for comment a study to: (a) determine the level of
funds necessary to ensure adequate O&M of irrigation systems financed by the
Bank Group; (b) investigate sources of funds, and mechanisms to ensure the
timely availability of these funds; and (c) recommend appropriate levels of
direct and indirect contributions including, among others, IPEDA contributions
from the beneficiaries of irrigation (Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement).
58.       At full development, IPEDA rates (in end-1978 prices) are expected
to increase to Rp 13,000/ha at Jatiluhur and Rp 8,000/ha at Cisedane, and
water charges at Jatiluhur from Rp 500/ha to Rp 4,000/ha and from zero to



- 20 -
Rp 1,500/ha in the Cisedane drainage area. Based on these incremental rates,
the direct cost recovery /1 indices are 71% for the Jatiluhur tertiary develop-
ment subproject and 3% for the Cisedane drainage subproject. The direct cost
recovery is appropriate for tertiary development, but is low for Cisedane due
to the fact that project charges would not be levied on non-flooded farmers
who benefit from road improvements. Assurances have been obtained that,
following completion of project works, the Government would, through IPEDA,
establish and collect charges on irrigable agricultural land (or on users of
the land) at levels to cover the cost of sound O&M and recover over the
useful life of the irrigation system a reasonable proportion of the capital
expenditures attributable to such system, consistent with the capability of
the beneficiaries to pay; and that IPEDA rates established would be reviewed
with the Bank every two years (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
59.       By providing improved water control, distribution and drainage, the
proposed project would increase crop yields and production on 186,000 ha in
the Jatiluhur area and directly benefit some 346,000 farm families (about 1.9
million people). Through the provision of additional employment opportunities,
some 61,000 landless laborers' families (about 336,000 people) would
indirectly benefit from the project. The increase in dry season irrigation
(rice only) at full project development would create a demand for an additional
10.7 million man-days of farm labor per year,/2 equivalent to some 45,000
full-time additional jobs annually. In the Cisedane area, improved drainage
would eliminate flooding over about 5,000 ha, thereby enabling some 10,000
farmers to follow improved agricultural practices during the wet season, and
produce some dry season crops. Farm labor demand would increase by about
430,000 man-days/year, equivalent to 1,800 full-time jobs annually. In
addition, the whole Cisedane area would substantially benefit from the
improved road network, which would allow a better supply of inputs and
mar1/eting of produce (thereby stimulating agricultural production) and enable
extension staff to work more effectively. Overall incremental /2 farm labor
in the Cisedane area is estimated at 1.8 million man-days per year, equivalent
to 7,500 full-time annual jobs, which would partly benefit about 25,000
landless families.
60.       The internal economic rates of return have been estimated to be 52%
for the Jatiluhur tertiaries and 16% for Cisedane drainage. The weighted
average for the entire project would be 41%. In calculating these economic
rates of return the following assumptions were used: a 30-year evaluation
period; efficiency prices based on forecasts of world market prices for the
major traded inputs and outputs; a standard conversion factor of 0.85; and a
shadow wage rate coefficient of 50% for unskilled labor.
/1 Ratio of present value of incremental recovery (IPEDA and water charges)
to present value of incremental financial costs, both calculated at 10%
discount rates.
/2 Future with the project compared to future without the project.



- 21 -
61.       Some 90% of farm families in the project areas presently have per
capita incomes below the estimated absolute poverty level/I; at full project
development, this proportion would be lowered by about 10%. About 60% of
project farm benefits would accrue to the target group of poor farmers, 25%
of benefits would accrue to sharecroppers, and 35% to owner-operators with
extremely small farms.
Risks
62.       No major management or organizational problems are expected in the
implementation of the project. Problems encountered previously in tertiary
development projects are not expected to arise because of accumulated
experience and good management performance of the Jatiluhur Authority. Rapid
inflation over the last several years led to sizeable cost overruns on
projects initiated in the early 1970s. Inflation is a continuing problem
and, although more under control now, provisions for price increases are
greater for this and other projects recently financed by the Bank Group than
in earlier projects.
Environmental Effects
63.       The effects of the project on the physical environment would be
small since the project areas have been under irrigated cultivation for many
years. Schistosomiasis is not present in the project areas, and mosquito
breeding areas that currently exist would be reduced as a result of the
project works.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
/1 Based on $95 per capita in 1975 prices, updated to $130.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 11, 1978
Washington, D. C.



-23-                                             ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                               Is
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1904.3                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     283.8                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0        140.0     300.0           616.0       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      129.0       120.0      178.0           522.0        88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VIrAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MIlD-YEAR
(MIILLIONS)                       94.7        117.6     133.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9         17.5       17.9            30.1        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        50.0        62.0      70.0            156.8        46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0        419.0     470.0            794.8       254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.1 /f     44.0      42.1             40.8        43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                          55.3 /f     53.5      55.1             55.4       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6 Lf      2.5        2.8             3.2         2.9         3.0
PO'ULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.1         2.0       2.0              2.3         2.4         2.7
URBAN                                ..         3.7 aj    2.6              5.1         4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.0        45.9       40.3            34.6        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      25.4        20.6       19.9             8.7        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8         3.2        2.5             2.6         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       181.1    1979.0                .
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          0.2       13.7            22.1        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              96.5       100.0      102.7           106.8        96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    89.0        91.0      98.0            108.7        92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0        43.0      43.8             57.7        50.0        56.8
OF IBIICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       15.0 /h     14.0       16.6            17.0        13.9        17.5
C'1ILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..           ..        ..             4.0          ..         7.5
HEA'.TH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.5         45.0       45.3            59.0        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTAIATY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           125.0  f.i      *-     116.0            44.0       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         3.0       11.0            21.9        26.4        31.1
URBAN                                *-         10.0      41.0            58.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                ..          1.0       4.0             9.8        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         12.0      15.0            28.6        16.1        37.5
URBAN                                ..        50.0       60.0            66.6        65.9        69.5
RURAL                                ..         4.0        5.0             14.8        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          41380.0 /i  26830.0   16930.0           4103.1    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      7770.0 .a  7310.0 /i        1520.2     6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1370.0      1670.0    1430.0            657.1      1157.6       786.5
URBAN                                ..      1130.0         ..           145.5       183.3       278.4
RURAL                                *-      1890.0         ..          1011.8      1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..             19.0       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.4         4.8         ..             5.2         5.2
URBAN                               4.9         5.3         ..             5.2         4.8
RURAL                               4.3         4.7         ..             5.4         5.3
AVERAGE NUMNER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.5        ..
URBAN                                ..          1.6        ..              ..         1.8          2.3
RURAL                                ..          1.6        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        63.5         ..             39.1       25.9         28.3
URBAN                                ..         75.5        ..              ..
RURAL                                ..         39.1        ..              ..         8.7         10.3



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                             Page 2
TABLE 3A
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                                 /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 67.0          75.0      81.0              95.6        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                55.0         70.0       75.0              93.7        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0          15.0      18.0              43.3        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 3.0          11.0      13.0              38.6         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0            22.0      21.0              11.3         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0          29.0      30.0              30.0        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           14.0          13.0      15.0              25.4        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          47.0 /k      59.0       62.0 /k          84.0        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.0          2.0        3.0              9.3         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            7.0          ..       39.0              97.6        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             *-          0.7         *-             21.8         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..           ..       16.0             25.9         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..         ..              4.6         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0        44200.0   48430.0 I1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.9          31.0      34.2              33.2        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                75.0         69.0      60.1              48.4        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.4          9.7        8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  54.1         49.9       52.6             38.9        39.8         37.8
MALE                                   79.8         68.7       73.8             48.6        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 29.4         32.1       36.8             28.4        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4          1.3        1.2              1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         33.7 /m     ..              17.3        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            52.0 Im     ..              45.6        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          6.8 1!                      6.5         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         17.31/      ..              17.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      125.0            140.8        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       95.0            112.8         71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                  ..          ..       55.0             76.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       55.0             27.7        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       59.0             40.4        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Low Income (9280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550
per capita, 1976);   /f  Excludes W. Irian;   /g  1961-71;   /h  1961-63;   /i  1962;   /i  Including
midwives;   /k  Aged 10 years and over;   /1  Excludes rural areas in East Nusa Tenggara, Maluku and
Irian Jaya;  Im  Income recipients.
September 1978



-25-                                                               ANNXI
Page 3
ii  INITIOfS Of SOCIAL    ioi
Ntot---   Although tha date are drsun from ecurcee ganerelly judged Lb. mot .uthorit.ti- amid r1tlei., It should also ha -crd that thav may hot be inter-
nationly compa rable bcue of.the la.ck of atandardleed definitlons and cone:pt. uad by diff.r-t: cou.trie, it collectint the data.  Th. date at.. nonethelees.
usful to descib, order, of y.amnit.de. Indicate trends, and characterize cartain major differ.ncee botwee.n countries.
The *edloat.d Kroop avrage,s for each indicator or. population-meightad goametric means, *.cludi.g th. antreu -v..e of the Indicator .an the moat
populat.d comuncry in each aroup.  Coyoersg  of co-ttri.a among the Indicators depends on avala.bility or d-t  -d is tot .nifoo.  Doa to lack of dota.,
graup avaresee for Capital Surplus oil tEport.rsan iW ndicators of acceas to reter sad excrete diepoaal, housing. i-cm   disLribution mnd povrty sr.
simple popl.iaton-veighted geometric maens wthout the exclusion of extrem values.
LAND AREAJ (thousand sq. ho)                                                           PopulatIon por hospital bed - total, urban. sand rural - Population (total,
To-tal- Total aurfs.e area comprising land area and Island waters.,                      urbau, end rurel) divided by theit respective ember of boepital bade
izilcultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area useed temporarily               available In Public and Private general end epecialfted boepital sad ro-
or permanently for crop., pastures, mkarkt end kitcenm gardens or to                  habilitation centars.  Hospitals are esteblisbmnts permanetly staffed by
lie fallowa.                                                                          at least sme physician.  letabliehoents providing principally custedial
.ere a.e wtc ialieded. uoral hospitals. hadeea,. Include health sadd mdi-
Qi  PER CAPITA, (UMS  - CNP per capita eatimates at Current market price",                Cal centers sot permanently staf fed by a phyalcian (but by a medical mai-
calculated by a-m  convereion method aa World bank Atlas (1975-77 haaia);             sistant, Mur... midwife. etc.) which offer ia-patient aeceomedetin sand
1960. 1970, sad 1977 date.                                                            provide a limted range of medical facilitlee..
onemeCr hospital bed - Tetal nmabar of sadelesisn toeer dischargee
ENERGY CONSUHYTION PER CAPITA - Annual consmptiom  of commercial energy                   I~ apitals divided by the eumber af bade.
(coal and lignite,* patroleim. natural geeand hWydro- * nuclear and gao-
thermal electricity) in kilogrmne of coal equivalent per capita.                   wl
Aversee eje  ato household (pereon  Po. ho .. ha .5~total, u-ban  sad rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a greW  ef individuals who share lving quarters
Total ppuletirn    i-er(iloe   As of July 1; if not available.                           end their main amels.  A hoarder or ledger may or day net be inclede  in
avrgeo  twen-eretmes190  1970. ana 1977 date.   *the household for etatistical purposes.  Statietical defintiom   of houee-
Ubnpulato    pret  fttl   Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion, different definition. of urban areas may affect Comparability                 Average nomb  of serse   eor room - totael. urban, end rural - Average nem-
of data maong countries,                                                              her of prerson  pe  omIn allU  urban, ad rural occuPisd conventional
Population density                                                                       duellings., rpepactivaly.  Deallinga sexclude nog-parmenat struature and
?m s:k,- Kid-year population per square kilometer (100 hecarters)               unoccupied parts.
of total aresms.                                                                         .  oeetict    sren   fdelilns) - total, urban. mid vrerl -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as ahove for agricultural len                   ovninldellnewt   lcrct  in living quarters an percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectivelly.
Po2ulatlo, ens structure (Percent) - Children (0-14 years),* working-age
(15-64 years)  and retired (6.5 yrear  and ever) as percentages of mid- 
year population.                                                                   MdUste   erollment ratios
Population. arauth rate (percent) - total. end urban - Compound annua                 Primer, school - total. and f male - Total end female enrollmeet of all agem,
growth rae.e of total end urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                     at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-atge
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years  but adjuaced for
Crude birth rate (pma thosuand) - Annul live births per thousand of                      different lengths of primary education; for countries with enivrsel edre
eld-pear population; ten-year -ithmetic. .v....e  en.ding in 1960 aod                 cation erolmet may .....ad 100 percent elena  omad  papila are belw or~
1970 and five-year averege ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate.                   above the official school age.
Crude death rate (Par thousand) - Annual deatha per thou.send of mid-                 Secondary  school - toltal, and famale - Computed an above; sewondary edoca--
year populAtion; ten-year aritluetit &avrmgee ending In 1960 sand 1970                tim  requires at leaat four years of approved primary imec.eeetiem; pro-
and five-year average ending la 1975 for most c-anet estimate.                        videa general vctoa,or teachr training Instruetiosa for popila
Gross rep?roduction rete - Avenege mmber of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses wer  gmeneally
in hwr normal reproductive period If  baM  erperiencee present age-                   excluded.
specific fertility rates. Useuelly five-year averages ending In 1960,               Vecational wanrlleet ( percent of secondary) - Vocational gastitretlee  ho-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clods t.choical, indattriel, or Other progroea which operate indepedenly
Family plannieg - acceptors. aennual (thousands) - Annual eumber of                      or an departmente of aecondary institutions.
ecceptors of birth-control devices undec asupices of mational family               Puil-teacher ratio  -  rmr.adscondary -Ttlsuet   noldh
Planning program.                                                                     primary and aeadrylyl  divided by embera of teachera In the corre-
Pemily Planning - us*er  (percen  of  lared wiomen) - Percentage  t                      spending leves.
married woman of child-hearing age  15_   years) who use birth-control             Adult literac, rat; (ipercent) - Literate adults (able to reAad nd reite) as
devicee to all married weame in sone age group.                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 yosears  enover.
FOOD AM   TUITIMO                                                                    CONUMPTION
Index ef food production per capita (1970-100) - Index no"mb  of Per                 Possenger Cars (Per thousand POPUlation) - P-seang- car  co-prise mater cars
capita aseual production of all food coinodities.                                    meatins lees than eight persona; excludes ambulaoces, he.rsee and military
Per cenita suMnly of caloriee (percent of requirements) - Computed from               vehicles.
energy equivalent of ot food eupplies available It couon;ry per capit&             RAdio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for redlo
par day.  Available supplies comprise domestic p.oductisn. Imports lees             broadcasts to geneal- public par thouan..d of population; aneludes emliceneed
"paprts. and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude amnial feed, sends,            rteceivrs in countries eod in years when regietration of radio sets was ho
quantities need In food processing. and lonsees in distributimn.  Re-               effect; data fer recent years may not he comparable miece moat coentries
quirennts -are estimated by lAO beasd on physiological needs for nor-               abolished licensing.
mal activity and health conaidering enviroomental temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousaend population) - TV receivers for broadcet to ganerd.
weighta. age sand aex distributions of population, sand allowing 10 per-              Public par thousand population; excludes unliceanse d TV receivers in toem-
rent for waste at household level,                                                    tries and in yerar  when registration of TY seta was in effect.
Per capita supplyT of  rocin aromPa r day) - Protein content of per                  Sereepper. circulaton  (oar thousand populatin-Shows the average circula-
capita net aupplyf of fdPardy   Net oupply of food is defined Cas                     tio  of adil  geea  naet ;tppr,deie   sapridclpbi
above.  Requirements for all cowatris.a.. aetabiahe  by USDA6 Provide for             cation devoted Primarily to recorcding ganeral news.  It is comlaidre  ito
a minim allowance of 60 grand of total protein per day and 20 grams                   ha- uidily" If Ic appears at least fear times a week.
of animal sod pulse proteho, of which 10 grine should ho animal proteis.           Cn    suaattendance  mar "Psts ae  yeaVr - Haosd en the maber of tickets
Thaem etendards are loner thee thoan of 75 grood of total protein and                 mold duigteya,icdngdmsostorv-hcmnaadoil
23 grams of animal protein an en everaga, for tho world, proposed by                  mIte.
PAO ho the Third World Pood Surrey.
Per capita protein supply from  anmland pulse - Proteho supply of fdod              DWl.mo1i
derived froum aimale and pulses in srand per day.                                  Totllabo *frce (thousands) - Economically ective parmosoahtudgare
Child (also 1-4) mortality rate (mar thousand) - Annual deaths per thowe-               fecs  o   memloynd but ancludins housewives, students, etc.  3sf igi-
and In ags group 1-4 years,'to children in this eg. group.                            tiona, in vezolum teutries are not Comparable.
Femal  (pecent)- Jale labsor force as percentage of total labor forte.
HEALTH                                                                                Agiutr  (marcent)                    a ao   ot  in farming, forestry, hosting end fiobleg
Lifi e   pectancy at birth  (rears) - Avrerae umber of years of life                    as pmerentage of total labor force.
credining at birth; usually five-year evrmages ending In 1960, 1970,               loduatrY (percent) - Labor force in aining, construction, seaefeetucig and
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as Percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rats (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total, "ale. eNW  fmale - Total, male, end
one pear of age per thous and live birhte.                                            fseals labor force as percentages of their respective paoplationa.
Access to sare water (maccent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                Th... are 1105 adjusted po-ticip.tion. rates -afle-ting   e-a
Number of psople (total, urban. and rural) with rasoa-ble  cc... to                   struture of the population. dod long ties trend.
safe water supply (includee treated surface waters or untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to
uncontamniated wat.c much as that from p-totcted boreholes, sPrings,                  the labor force In age group ef 15-64 years.
and sanitary .eils) as percenteage of their respactive Populations..
In an urban arma a public (contain or standpost locatd no; more                  lIDCi   olnlUTlow
than 100 eaters from a hous. may be coosidered as being within rea-                Pecoaeof private income (both in cash and kind) rmeeved by cicee"t 5
acsable eccsaa of that house.  In l  rural areas.. reaonable access would             percent, richest 20 Percent. poorest 20 Percent. and pooreat 40 percent
imply that the hous.ewife or members of the household do not have to                  of houeholde,
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the fsmilyis
water needs.                                                                      POVERTY TARGEIT GROUPS
Access to excrete dieposal (per.eto   ouain    totl, urban, end                      Etstimated absolute povevrty   eoelevel (USS par capit.) - urban, ed Mrual-
rurl -Womatof  eope  totl.  rbnt   and r'ural)f served by enCrate              Absolute povrty icome leve  is that income level below whIch amima
disposal as percentages of their respectiv. population..  Excrete                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential uono-food requirements ia net
disposal may include the collection and disposal, w.ith or without                    affordable.
treatment, of human encreta and wasta-wt-c by water-borne, syatma                  lEstimated relative  povrty income level (US, mascpite) - urban  an  rural-
orthe me of pit privies and similar Installations.                                  Relative Poverty incom  level is thtinoeee  less than one-third
PopultIlou per physician - Populatino divided by umber of Practicing                    Per Capita personal incom  of th. country.
physicians qualified from a msdical school at umiv-reity level.                    Estimeted  oNpulttio, below  povrty Icme level (percent   -  rban and  rural 
Population par nursing payson - Population divided by uomber of                         Parc_t of poplatio  (urban and rural) who are aithar   bnlute poor" er
practicing male and female graduate purees, practical nurses. and                     "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant narses.
Economic end Social Dats Divisiom
ZEcanoic Analysis end Projections Department



ANNEX I
-276 -                                   Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977 -                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GRO'rH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      J.                          1960-65            1965-70         1971-77
GNP at Market Prices           44,386        100.0                           1.9                4.9             7.8
Gross Domestic Investment       8,667         19.5                           3.3               11.5           13.4
Gross National Saving           8,448         19.0                           5.8                5.1           16.9
Current Account Balance       -   725      -   t.6
Exports of Goods, NFS           7,592         17.1                           1.5                7.8           10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS           7,489         16.9                          0.2                10.9           18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                    Labor Force-                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %Mln. 
Agriculture                    11,624       31.1                  35.3      62.6                   329          49.7
Industry                       12,672       33.9                   4.7       8.3                 2,696         407.3
Services                       13,043       35.0                  13.4      23.8                   973         147.0
Unallocated                      -            -                    3.0        5.3
Total/Average          ._.__
37,339    110.L 03Zt                          5                                 ioo-
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNmENT
(Rp. Billion)                                            % of GDP
1976/77             1977/78                            1976                  1977
Current Receipts               2,877                3,535                            18.6                  18.6
Current Expenditure            1,610               2,149                             10.4                  11.3
Current Surplus                1,267.               1,387                             8.2                   7.3
Capital Expenditures           2,044                2,157                            13.2                  11.3
External Assistance (net)        784                  773                             5.0                   4.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    l7            1973         1974         1975         1976         1977
Tillion Rp  outstanding end periodT'
Money and Quasi Money                        695           987        1,452        1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector                 129           153          209          990        1.051          865
Bank Credit to Private Sector                524           932        1,186        1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers:)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             15.2          14.6          14.8        16.3          17.0         16.5
General Price Index (1966 - 100)             807         1,028        1,370        1,640        1,873        2,094
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                           25.7          27.4         33.3         19.7         14.2          11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                 -14.0          18.6         36.6        473.7          6.2        -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                 65.3          77.9         27.2         16.0         26.2          18.8
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - Us$1
21 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed wsrkers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
Fast Asia & Pacific Programs
October 31, 1978



ANNEX I
-  27 -                                  Page 5
TRADE PADVENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975     1976      1977(Provisional)                                     US $ Mln    7.
(Millions US $)
Exports:                       4.738   6,183    7,592                 Oil                                 2,906      57.1
Oil (net)                    2,921   3,567    4,243                 Timber                                605      11.9
Non oil                      1,817   2,216    3,349                 Rubber                                461       9.1
Imports                       -5,533  -6,352   -7,489                 Palm Oil                              117       2.3
Resource Gap                -  795  -  169       103                Tin                                   107       2.1
Factor bervice:               -  462  -  646   -  828                 Coffee                                104       2.0
Interest                    -  178  -  362   -  473
Investment Income           -  284  -  284   -  355                  All other commodities                791      15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -  8T-  -  723-                          Total                        5,1=Ur    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        497      329      286               MXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              2,395   2,327    1,988                                                              US $ Mln
Amortization              -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                   2,073   1,702    1,162                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               11,391
Capital Grants                   ..       ..       ..                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           -2,250  -  205   )  474                  Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -   46  -  604   )
Increase in Reserves (+)     -  983      736    1,197                DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977- -
Gross Reserves (end year)        590   1,494    2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)        490   1,226    2,423                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         93      119       28
of which:  Petroleum          89     114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       2,921   3,567    4,243          IBRD/IDA LENDING,(Oct. 31.  1978)(Million US $):
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
2/                Outstanding & Disbursed               549.4       480.8
Throuh-Aug2 1971                Since  -  19717                   Undisbursed                         1,222.6       150.0
US $ 1.00  Rp 375               US $  .00= Rp 415OusadniclUdsbre                                      1720          638
Rp   1000 - US $2.67            Rp   1000 = US $2.41t0.8
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/  Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1000 - USS 1.60
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
October 31, 1978



ANNEX II
- 28 -                       Page I of 21 pages
SUMMARY OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1978)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                      Undisbursed
Number       Year                      Purpose                        Bank       IDA      Bank/IDA
Fifteen Credits fully disbursed                                                 202.2       0.0
195          1970          Second Irrigation Rehabiitation                       18.5       0.1
220          1971          Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                       14.5       0.2
246          1971          Seeds                                                  7.5       0.1
259          1971          Tea                                                   15.0       1.1
260          1971          Second Highway                                        34.0       0.4
289          1972          Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                      12.5       0.4
300          1972         Population                                             13.2       3.7
318          1972          Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                      8.5       2.0
319          1972          Fourth Agricultural Estates                           11.0       2.4
355          1973          Beef Cattle Development                                3.6       0.3
358          1973          North Sumatra Smallholder Development                  5.0       0.8
387          1973          Third Education                                       13.5       4.9
388          1973          Third Highway                                         14.0       0.3
399          1973         West Java Thermal Power                                46.0       5.0
400          1973          Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                     7.8       6.6
405          1973          Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                         50.0       2.2
428          1974          Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                         16.5      10.1
436          1974         Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                   10.0      1.2
451          1974          Fourth Technical Assistance                            5.0       2.4
479          1974          Bali Tourism                                          16.0      11.1
480          1974          Fisheries Credit                                       6.5       2.1
514          1975         Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                         30.0      23.1
785          1978          Small Enterprise Development Project                  40.0      40.0
827         1978           Rural Credit                                          30.0      30.0
1005         1974         Railway                                     48.0                 5.0
1040         1975         Jakarta Urban Development                   25.0                 2.7
1049         1975          Five Cities Water Supply                   14.5                 10.8
1054         1975         Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO II)                             50.0                 0.1
1089        1975          Second Fertilizer Expansion                115.0                 2.3
1100         1975         Sixth Irrigation                           65.0                 50.7
1127         1975          Fourth Power                               41.0                 7.8



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 21 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amounts (less cancellations)
Credit     Fiscal                                                                    Undisbursed
Number      Year                     Purpose                        Bank       IDA     Bank/IDA
1139        1976          Fertilizer Distribution                   68.0                 1.5
1179        1976          Agricultural Research & Extension         21.5                20.0
1197        1976          National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.0                10.4
1236        1976          Fourth Highway                           130.0               105.2
1237        1976          Fourth Education                          37.0                33.5
1250        1976          Second Shipping                           54.0                49.6
1254        1976          Third Fertilizer Expansion                70.0                17.8
1259        1976          Fifth Power                               90.0                77.3
1267        1976          National Food Crops Extension             22.0                16.7
1268        1976          Seventh Irrigation                        33.0                22.8
1318        1977          Transmigration and Rural
Development                             30.0                24.4
1336        1977          Second Urban Development                  52.5                26.2
1337        1977          Tanjung Priok Port                        32.0                26.4
1363        1977          Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                              15.0                12.8
1365        1977          Sixth Power                              116.0                91.0
1373        1977          Nutrition Development                     13.0                12.9
1433        1977          Teacher Training-Fifth Education          19.0                18.0
1434        1977          Eighth Irrigation                         63.0                61.4
1435        1977          Ninth Irrigation                          35.0                31.3
1437        1977          Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                          40.0                 27.4
1472        1977          Second Population                         24.5                24.0
1486        1978         Non-Formal Education                       15.0                15.0
1499        1978          Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I        65.0                63.0
1513        1978          Seventh Power                            109.0               109.0
S 009       1978          Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering /b                          10.0                 10.0
1578        1978          Tenth Irrigation                         140.0               139.7
1579        1978          Eleventh Irrigation                       31.0                31.0
1604        1978          Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II       65.0                65.0
Total                                               1,772.0    630.8   1,373.0
of which has been repaid                              8.0      0.0
Total now outstanding                               1,764.0    630.8
Amount sold                                 27.9
.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA/a                    1,736.1    630.8
Total undisbursed                                   1,222.6    150.4   1,373.0
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.
/b Not yet effective.



30                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 21 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1978)
US$ million
Fiscal                                                          Loan      Equity       Total
Year
1971     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                 10.6       2.5          13.1
1971     P.T. Unitex                     Textiles                2.5       0.8           3.3
1971     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                 Textiles                2.0       0.5          2.5
1971     P.T. Kabel Indonesia            Cable                   2.8       0.4           3.2
1972     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles                4.5       1.5          6.0
1973     P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel         Tourism                11.0        -           11.0
1973     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                  5.4       0.7           6.1
1974     P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia                 Textiles                2.0       0.3          2.3
1974     P.T. Monsanto Pan               Electronics             0.9        -            0.9
1974     P.T. PDFCI                      Devel. Fin. Co.          -        0.5           0.5
1974     P.T. Kamaltex                   Textiles                2.4       0.6           3.0
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                  5.0       1.5           6.5
1976     P.T. Semen Cibinong             Cement                   -        1.1           1.1
1977     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.              Textiles                0.3        -           0.3
1977     P.T. Kamaltex                   Textiles                1.4       0.1           1.5
Total                                            50.8      10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled              28.0       1.8         29.8
Total held by IFC                                22.8       8.7         31.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  -             -



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 21 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                   Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 195, 220, 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435,
1578 and 1579)                                                  5-7
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)        7-10
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                            10-11
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    11
Education (Cr. 387, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                                  11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                   13-14
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                  14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                               14-15
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1054, 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)  15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9 /2)                                                    16
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                          16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                       17
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                   17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                         18
Highways (Cr. 260, 388 and Ln. 1236)                                       18-19
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                     19
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                           20
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                        20
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                             20-21
Urban Development (Ln. 1040 and 1336)                                         21
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                       21
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



-32                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 21 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 195   Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Initial progress was delayed by difficulties in equipment procure-
ment and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs. The
project is expected to be completed by March 1979. The credit is almost
totally disbursed. The rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound
and hydraulically adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is
improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substan-
tially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost has more than
doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in contract
quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satisfactory
because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected during
appraisal.
Credit No. 220   Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The overall project is now substantially completed, about 3 years
years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties in
preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy rains in
the 1973 construction season and, more recently, high inflation rates and
consequent civil works cost overruns - have been overcome, but time lost
cannot be regained. The quality of maintenance of completed works is improving
with the availability of operation and maintenance funds substantially higher
than previous levels. The estimated project cost is more than twice the
appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher than
those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. Completion of the project is expected



~ 33         ~          ANNEX II
Page 6 of 21 pages
by March 1979, a delay of about two years compared to appraisal estimates.
The Credit is about 96% disbursed. Feasibility studies included in the project
have been concluded and groundwater investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and good progress has been achieved.   Based on bid prices for the first
contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of detailed design, the
total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over the appraisal
estimate. The project is about 20% disbursed.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975: Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. Steps have been taken to accelerate the preparation of
these documents, and part of the time lost may yet be made up in the remaining
construction period. Substantial cost overruns are anticipated because of
unavoidable major changes in one project component and unit price increases in
other components. These will be verified within the next 12 months as bids
are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation Prolect:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976: Effective Date: September 21, 1976: Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the engagement of the
consultants. Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary
development areas and studies being funded under the project are expected to
be completed by December 1978. The mapping program is progressing satisfac-
torily. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation Project:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6.
1977: Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1983.
The project is progressing satisfactorily; it is slightly behind
schedule but time lost is expected to be made up.



_ 34                 ANNEX II
Page 7 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation Project:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977, Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is ahead of schedule and progressing satisfactorily. Some
tender documents have been prepared and are expected to be let in the next year.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation Project:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effecti-e Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
A smooth start has been made on project implementation.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation Project:  US$31 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Effective Date: August 16, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on project implementation.
Other Agriculture PrP;duction
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
before project completion, but factory capacity still has to be increased
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons or 30%. Inflation and additional construction and
equipment costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above
appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
participating in both the NES I project and the Transmigration and Rural
Development Project (Loan 1318-IND).



- 35 -                 ANNEX II
Page 8 of 21 pages
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973: Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. Major changes in project scope and
objectives (approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977) reflected a
change in the project from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for
export to that of production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and
breeding animals. The project was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and
is now being implemented satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973: Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress of this project continues to be satisfactory, and the full
program of planting 9,000 ha of rubber and oil palm by smallholders was
completed by the end of 1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these
plantings will have been brought to maturity. Government has decided not to
expand the project in its present location because of the extensive support
already given to North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported
projects; instead, Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for small-
holder development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on replanting
and less on rehabilitation; thus, the mix had to be changed reducing the
overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Production, however, will
not be affected since yields from replanted tea are higher than from rehabil-
itated tea. Costs will, however, exceed appraisal estimates by about 77%
since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have generally
increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in implementing the
institutional framework for long term lending, a new venture for BRI.
Because of this and difficulties in involving the private estates in the
project, disbursements are behind appraisal estimates. The problems are
being solved and the rate of disbursements is expected to accelerate. While
the project has experienced difficulties, it is estimated that, because of
the project-induced spin-off effects, an area at least equal in size to the
project is being improved. Over 500 farmers' groups have been formed to
improve tea production supported by a project training program involving up
to now nearly 4,000 farmers. These developments have been helped by a surge



- 36 -                 ANNEX II
Page 9 of 21 pages
in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal estimates). Considerable investment in
factory and field development outside the project is taking place, largely
financed by short- and medium-term loans of BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs which are involved in the rehabilitation process are
both in a weak financial position and this problem requires attention. The
Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the industry
but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the overall project is now estimated 18
months behind schedule. The project is about 65% disbursed. Construction of
shore facilities at Ambon is virtually completed. Boat construction is under
way and all related equipment is on site ready for installation. While the
quality of fishpond lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past,
remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the
situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development Project:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind appraisal
estimates partly because of the initial delay in project effectiveness, and
because of weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 650 migrant
families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing food
crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fertiliser
supplies and poor seed supply, although half originates from construction and
rubber planting. In the existing settled area at Way Abung, there has been
little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are not available on site
and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash crops. Experience to
date highlights the need for improving project management and ensuring that
agricultural support services and input supply systems are in place as settle-
ment proceeds.



-37                  ANNEX II
Page 10 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I Project:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Initial progress under this project shows that it is off to an
excellent start. Land clearing is in full progress, high quality planting
material is being prepared for distribution to smallholders and an experienced
project staff is being assembled at the project sites.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II Project:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has just become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers, the
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates. The
Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) has an experienced and
capable Director and management has been strengthened by the recent appointment
of a new Director of the Project Implementation Unit. Good progress has been
made on the design of civil works, contracts have been let for all the extension
information centers, and AARD plans to let contracts for the three National
Research Centers (total cost about US$($8.0 million) before the end of 1978.
At the present projected pace of implementation all components, except fellow-
ships, could be completed by the project closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Due to late approval of the 1977-78 budget, the construction and
training programs have fallen behind schedule. It is, however, anticipated
that all civil works and procurement programs can be substantially completed
in FY79. Although excellent progress is being made with the program in the
field, Government has been urged to strengthen project supervision from
headquarters. Staff appointments are generally ahead of schedule and farmer
groups have been formed in most areas and are visited on a rgular basis by
extension personnel. Savings on the construction and procurement programs,



-38 -                 ANNEX II
Page 11 of 21 pages
and an adequate provision of local budgetary funds allowed incorporation of
another four provinces under the project in the 1978-79 Indonesian fiscal year.
Preparation of a second phase project should be completed in 1978.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock. Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI), the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Printing of 81 million textbooks has been completed,
generally about nine months behind schedule. Similar delays are expected in
the printing of 33 million books for 1978, due in part to delays in paper
procurement. Teaching equipment has been procured and delivered. Teacher
training is on schedule and 3,800 tutors and administrators and 380,000
teachers have participated in training seminars. Due to delays in book
production, it has proved difficult to keep the training program in phase
with book deliveries. Project management has been strengthened by addition
of specialists under a technical assistance contract signed with UNESCO and
by direct hire of consultants in publishing and paper procurement. Disburse-
ment has improved and is now 81% of the appraisal estimate as against 69% a
year ago. The Government has started a major review of the project to focus
on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook products and to overall
future needs for production of instructional materials.



- 39                  ANNEX II
Page 12 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The three subprojects - under the Department of Education (DOE),
Department of Manpower (DOMI) and National Institute of Administration (LAN) -
initially suffered a ten-month delay due to slow site selection and late
signing of the Funds-in-Trust Agreements with the UN agencies providing
technical assistance. However, progress since the initial delay has been
good for the DOE and LAN components. The DOMI component is now 18 months
behind the appraisal estimate mainly because of delays in site acquisition
and development and in equipment procurement. In the last three months,
serious efforts have been made by the project unit and DOM to get this
project component on schedule: all but two sites have been acquired and
surveyed; bids for civil works at seven sites have been evaluated; access
roads and earthworks for six of these have been completed and contractors for
site works for seven more sites have been prequalified. Bids for the first
tender of equipment have been evaluated and equipment specifications for
future tenders are being finalized. The project unit has been strengthened,
a new training plan has been prepared to accelerate the training of instructors,
and the technical assistance program is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training Project: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is on schedule. The overseas
fellowship program to train 40 Indonesian educators in ways to improve teacher
training and develop new curricula has been accomplished successfully; and
good progress is being made with the second phase of the educational component
and with curriculum development and training of 110 more instructores. The
technical assistance contracts have been signed and civil work contracts for
28 institutions have been awarded.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education Project: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Initial implementation progress is satisfactory.   All positions
in the project unit are filled and appointment of key staff at provincial
centers has been completed. Appointment of other technical support staff and
fieldworkers is proceeding on schedule. A technical assistance firm has been
contracted and initial advisors are in post. Rehabilitation of one of two
existing provincial centers has been completed; work at the second center is
nearing completion. Three of four sites for new provincial centers have been
acquired and construction of the centers is expected to proceed on schedule.
Initial staff training, learning materials development and evaluation activi-
ties are being carried out.



- 40-                   ANNEX II
Page 13 of 21 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 399  West Java Thermal gpwer   US$46 Million Credit of June 22.
1973! Effective Date August 28. 1973 Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project implementation was initially delayed due to the neces-
sity for making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment due to rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, the implementation is
now progressing smoothly. The first 100 MW unit will be commissioned into
service by March 1979 and will be followed by the second unit by June 1979.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17. 1975  Effective
Date: October 23, 1975: Closing Date June 30, 1980.
The construction of the third 100 M4W unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1979
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected. The loan disbursement is as per schedule envisaged in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259  Fifth Power Project:  US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date   September 20, 1976  Closing Date
March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in four lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1 valued
at US$13.6 million has been received. Orders for equipment covered by Lot 2,
amounting to US$32.4 million are now being placed. It is expected that
inquiries for Lot 3 will be issued in September 1978. The project suffered an
initial setback in procurement action by about one year but is now progressing
satisfactorily. It is expected that the loan disbursement would be completed
prior to the closing date of March 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power Project: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977:
Effective Date. June 6  1977; Closing Date   December 31, 1982.
The implementation of the project consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang is progressing satisfactorily. The disburse-
ment of the loan on June 30, 1978 was about 73% of that estimated in the
appraisal report, but is expected to improve. Currently, estimated commis-
sioning dates for the units are about four to six months ahead of the appraisal
estimate.



- 41 -                 ANNEX II
Page 14 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1513  Seventh Power Project:  US$109.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1978; Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equipment,
electrical equipment and power transformer were opened on August 21, 1978.
Preliminary indications are that the prices will be within the project cost
estimates. The Project Report for the transmission lines and substations
design has been prepared. The progress of implementation is as per schedule
so far.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPIENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December
1976, one month ahead of schedule. Some operational difficulties are yet to
be resolved. The gas system has been completed and total project cost
is expected to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, was commissioned in mid-October 1977, about
three months ahead of schedule. Total project cost is expected to be below
the appraisal estimate.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulogadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of another
31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have been sold to 99
firms. Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around 19,000 and



- 42 -                 ANNEX II
Page 15 of 21 pages
an estimated 1,400 are employed on the average in both factory construction
and land development. Overall, operations are profitable. The return on
capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is significantly higher
than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to developed land values
rising faster than the cost of raw land and development. The project's
development has been slower than forecast at appraisal and the Credit Closing
Date has been postponed until December 31, 1980.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1054   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):  US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project has been implemented satisfactorily and the loan
has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III Project:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank appraisal
mission (August 1978) found that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the
Program and achieved satisfactory progress.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI Project:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



-43                   ANNEX II
Page 16 of 21 pages
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport (Engineering)   US$10.0 Mil-
lion Loan of May 19 1978' Closing Date. December 31T, 1983.
The KP5BA, che group set up by the Government of Indonesia to
coordinate the preparation of the Bukit Asam Mining and Transportation
Engineering project, has negotiated contracts with MCS Consultants, a joint
venture group comprising Canadian Consulting Services Company Ltd., Montreal
Engineering Company Ltd., and Swan Wooster Engineering Company Ltd., to act
as the Project Services Contractor (PSC); with Bechtel to act as technical
advisors (TA); and with White and Case to act as legal advisors. The effec-
tiveness of the Bank loan is dependent on obtaining effectiveness of the PSC
and TA contracts. The negotiated contracts for these services now await
signature and the appropriate Government approvals. The Bank has reviewed
these contracts and has no objections to them. While technical and legal
assistance is now being provided to the KP5BA, the project is currently
running approximately three months behind schedule due to the time taken to
complete negotiations with MCS.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20 1972:
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Completion of the construction program by the credit closing date
continues to cause concern. This problem has been complicated by a fire at a
half-completed provincial office where work has stopped. Assessment of the
Government's request to use anticipated savings on additional information,
education and communication activities and in-house computer facilities are
proceeding. Both the Association and the co-financier, the UNFPA, have no
objection, in principle, to using savings for improving the computer facilities
of NFPCB. A consultant has been engaged to determine the needs for such
improvement.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population Project:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6,
1977; Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979 and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well. Continued
uncertainty because of the still pending reorganization of the NFPCB has
inhibited effective management of the two research studies and the Government's
attention has been drawn to this. As of October 18, 1978, US$0.5 million
(2%) of the loan had been disbursed.



- 44 -                ANNEX II
Page 17 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development Project:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under this project is satisfactory. The Nutri-
tion Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components
as well as the fellowships program are proceeding with minor delays on the
original schedule. The rate of progress of civil works for the Food Technology
Center has been good. As of August 15, the degree of completion was as follows:
housing 18%, laboratory 13%, administrative block 13%, pilot plant 9%. About
3Z of the Nutrition Academy's laboratory is completed. The construction of
the Nutrition Research Development Center has also started. The monitoring
and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is still not established.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2 1974; Effective Date. February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
BAKOSURTANAL's new building complex at Cibinong is now nearing
completion, and should be equipped and occupied in the later part of 1978,
ahead of the original schedule. Contracts have been signed for over half of
the equipment originally included in the project, including most of the
equipment required to produce maps. A loan from the Government of Canada to
the Government of Indonesia has now been signed for a parallel project which
will begin to provide mapping photography of Kalimantan, Sulawesi, Java, Bali
and the Lesser Sunda Islands in 1979. In the interim, 90% of Sumatera and 50%
of Irian Jaya and Maluku has been photographed under an Australian aid program.
Regional resource surveys have been completed in Lombok and are now underway
for the entire southern half of Sumatera and are beginning to produce informa-
tion of use for regional and project planning.



-45 -                 ANNEX II
Page 18 of 21 pages
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution   US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date   June 30, 1979.
Work on the five original port depots is practically completed
and has commenced on the sixth depot which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as
an extension financed from project savings. All four ships including that
approved in 1977 have been delivered and 42 of 58 inland storage depots are
completed. All the ships, three port depots and 26 storage depots are operat-
ing. Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be,
due to some extent to existing stocks of fertilizer disrupting the planned
distribution pattern. The matter is being taken up with Pusri and improvements
are expected.
Credit No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Construction of the Sawahtambang-Muarabungo section of the Trans-
Sumatera Highway was completed and opened to traffic in mid-1976 (within the
first revised Closing Date of December 31, 1976). The bulk of consulting
services under the project were also completed by mid-1976. Only detailed
engineering for part of the Padang-Medan Highway remains to be completed for
'which the Closing Date was subsequently revised to December 31, 1978; this
work was interrupted and delayed due to the Government's need to reconsider
its plans for regional, urban and port development. Quality of construction
and services were satisfactory and cost overrun was small.
Credit No. 388 Third Highway: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Construction of the two North Sulawesi road sections was started
in 1974 under separate contracts. Quality of work is satisfactory but delays
and high construction costs were experienced due to mobilization problems,
adverse climatic conditions, increases in quantities and sharp escalation of
prices. Total project costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about 70%.
One road section was completed in February 1978 and the other is scheduled for
completion in November 1978 within the revised December 31, 1978 Closing Date



-46 -                 ANNEX II
Page 19 of 21 pages
of the Credit. The project feasibility studies and detailed engineering
studies of highway betterment were satisfactorily completed and formed the
basis for the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1236-IND) and for other external
aid to the Government from ADB and bilateral agencies. The project's training
program component was satisfactorily prepared and continues to be implemented
by the Government.
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway Prolect:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started and the last
contracts for 44 km are about to be signed. Some problems in executing the
road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976 and delays were
encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a slower rate of
progress than scheduled. The project is about 20% complete. The delays
combined with slow progress indicate that the project will probably be
completed about 15-18 months after the loan's present Closing Date.
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to March 31, 1979 in order to provide additional time for several
new projects of ship rehabilitation and technical assistance to be disbursed.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants, just over
half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been rehabili-
tated. The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be fully
disbursed by the new closing date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping Project:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and has slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The financial position of the state shipping company (PELNI) is
unsatisfactory, and further deterioration could cause financial problems for
the project entity (PANN).  The Government has decided on a method of dealing
with this problem whicti will be discussed during the next supervision mission
in early 1979. Commitments under the loan were US$13.8 million in September
1978 and are expected to increase sharply during 1979. Disbursements of
US$84.4 million in September 1978 are also expected to increase sharply. The
loan is not expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date and an extension
is likely to be granted.



- 47 -               ANNEX II
Page 20 of 21 pages
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Tanjung Priok Port traffic during 1977 slightly exceeded appraisal
forecasts for total dry cargo by about 2.5%; about 5.6 million tons handled,
an increase of 4% over 1976. The first construction contract for Basin III
civil works and the second for Regional Harbor improvements have been let.
However, the land required for the Regional Harbor contract was not released
by the Army as promised and work on this contract will not start until
December 1978; container handling and other equipment is being procured on
schedule. There continues to be delays in completing the government-financed
works in Basin III; although the problems have now largely been resolved,
execution continues to be slow and completion is now scheduled for July 1979.
Work on the Bank-financed project in Basin III is continuing. Good progress
continues on revising accounting procedures and in related staff training.
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement is now well under way and all contracts have been
placed or are about to be placed. Project execution is behind schedule due
to initial slow procurement and execution of works. A deferment of the
Closing Date to June 30, 1979 will be needed. Freight and passenger traffic
declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However some improvements
were made in the second half of 1977 after the arrival of new locomotives and
rolling stock, and with operations improved with the aid of consultants. The
financial performance of the railway is deteriorating due mainly to the
declining traffic in 1976 and to increasing costs including a large wage
raise in early 1977. The overall situation is being reviewed with the
railway administrators and the Government.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
The construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion by the
end of 1979. The construction of the hotel training school has been completed.
The completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is
scheduled for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project
appraisal.  Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing;  it rose by 31% in 1976
and by a further 8% in 1977 to 286,000 visitors. Despite considerable efforts
made by the Bali Tourism Development Board and the Bank Group in promoting



- 48 -              ANNEX II
Page 21 of 21 pages
hotel investment at Nusa Dua, no hotel investors have yet come forward. It
is therefore highly unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua could be completed
by the end of 1979 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure. However,
the Executive Directors have just approved changes in the project description
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction which
may encourage hotel investment at an earlier date.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots have been resolved. About
2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are expected to
be settled by December 1978.
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development Project: US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Although land acquisition is causing some
delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is being
made in developing Government capabilities in undertaking a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs about
15% above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of
tender documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for
major civil works have been signed. The reorganization of the Directorate of
Sanitary Engineering has been completed and the establishment and development
of local water enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978,
the Government issued an interministerial decree defining relationships
between the various Ministries and the water enterprises. This is expected
to help expedite current and future projects in the sector.



- 49 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
TWELFTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:         Three years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:         Jatiluhur Authority and
Directorate-General of
Water Resources Develop-
ment, with consultant
assistance funded under
Loan 1268-IND.
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider project:                        November 1976
*'4(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  June 1, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:        November 15, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             April 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
-Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Bank would make disbursements for tertiary structures only
if the withdrawal application is accompanied by a certificate from
the site engineer stating that the entire tertiary network had
been completed (para. 52).
(b) The Government would:
(i) provide adequate agricultural credit, extension services and
inputs in the project areas (para. 54);
(ii) establish water users' associations for the operation and
maintenance of tertiary networks (para. 55);



- 50 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii) provide adequate staff and funds for O&M (para. 55);
(iv)  prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments a program
(including staffing and funding provisions) for O&M of
district and village access roads (para. 55;
(v)  prepare a study to:  determine levels of funds to ensure
adequate O&M of irrigation systems financed by the Bank Group;
investigate sources of needed funds; and recommend levels of
contributions from beneficiaries of irrigation (para. 57);
and
(vi)  ensure collection of IPEDA sufficient to meet O&M costs
and recover a reasonable portion of the capital expenditures
(para. 58).



________________I_______I_______I_____                                                                                                                                      I BRD   13780
F.  J>   f            , q vo         s e1       6                       106- 30'                            106- 35                            106"40                              106'45       OCTOBER 1978
t ii7:                                             INDONESIA                                       -      -  Primary Canals
laola      O    ~-                                                                                                                            Seconcdory Canals
Inda/n Ocean                                ii             X           IRRIGATION  PROJECT XII                                                  Drains:or Rivers
obn _ losB ' 112-  . CISED~AINE                                                  Drains PRO Rivers to be Rehabilitated including Embankments
CISE'DANE DRAINAGEb"?sr                     PROJECT Wl^tlXlrt>g_ Existing Roods
Rgilwoys
- - --  District Road to be Constructed or Rehabilitated by D PU K
Inspection Roads to be Constructed or Rehabilitated
6000                                                         J   A   V  A                S  E  A                                                    Embankments to be Constructed
Flooded Areas                                      6 00-
4 %fi                                                                        :                                ;        =    Sub-project Boundary
6~~~~~~~ got                                                                               r.~~~~~~~~~~~-Komt n
J   AiT 
~~  t'  0                                    \~~~~~~~~~   ~~~i  /   5.     /  .~~~~~~~~~~  >~~~j   ~~~~  Tegol-ogus
WAW    / jI \/<                    0' ,ronx                           t C                                                                                                6005
J:kor:eiA rp
6' 10'                                                                                                                              o   og                  -60
Io  10'                  ~~~106~2' 2/6O35X
106020      /                              106030                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10605.1060                                 106'45'






050              1050                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~106                 1090                                   20                             15kocomoororo
loo-                                     103-   -15                                                                                                                                                                           IIE zo15  tf XS /18)>13                                                            cTB-
MALAYSIA 14A
e                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALAYSIA
- Gadi.                       ,,,           -    4SINGAPORE
S. S.dy A,.                   ,e
S = Y'hftff   Wonro;u ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<  <             \-~~~~~~~~~~~~~<                                                  E                                                     3                 -               l5,00Xfh.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,00h
Sto6y A,.                Pok-o,b                                                                                                     .5--
-0. 8.00tlh.           1        S= .                                                                                                                                                                                   C1 00 
8,kor,,,gg,                        h..o                                                                               0 ,     Po,fl,omc                                                                   ,,V  
S-O.glD..h                                                                                             K,>A  L I M  ANTA   N T                                                            I A   N,
0,0,040 E;8ere;lgs2t                                      tEf-LIIUCGf                      2_   ~PW    t   2 XSebarifus;i  d                                                                   Gb ,t- bSt Are3
L. rkiggo  10,0)0ier ho       D0           V  oL 00 a                                                        p1                             I0 ,0                                    0 5s E                      i         , 
N                                                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   ,,,,,,4; 0   S IO l ) ~
Vlev Sopor0 Exteos, fll28WGtrOhUlCtEPiOtr9dG &                                                                                                                                           ,h ho  )          0.04AWbS,
0  100  200    300        400          S00                                       .   w  D   i pro.o,enl Orje  25.0N0 6                                                                                          Sadon- .lodRIoNJAYo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 0-000                                                2h00300.                                                                                                                          on420,Ioo.W 7rlslwS7t#roriody rle.oll~- ,0. , i
IdLES I " ew~~oySo                               leyhh7l"KreooegSorroro]rdie1                                       ,     A     V    A                        S   F r                                              I         7I           ,         -
1,0-     Bit-                                             BEL'TU_
4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A
L.16N kliA    q        5'  Iroen h.lproiot 2,00Ah
~]JID1JjjJjf~ IRRI(2ATION PROJOCT XII           _lIe,hSt~ ODy    h.                                                                                                                                    S.dh." ForAor  ,600
IRRIGATION PROJECTS ~~~~~~~~                   cbliont6todyA,eo (-          - -.f.  Sd
-.  -  INTERNATIONAL8OUNDA0I0S  ~   ~    ~ ~ .                                                                                                                                                              54,00 /
65,0098000h.Koi-PoA.V    A                                                                              SS    E     OMBA
50                                                                                                                     24,0000.                                                                                  ..-~~~~qK.f t ,.  0 .'oS~-,..t 4,0 h0,bo P.,A5I 
fty K"b.14  J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                           7,00 O lotohjtt             Pos0eeSeopeiPofot253', 003                                                       '    '  hoo.oA
6-                                                    P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000hT,2900,- SIRW
0  00  205  300        400         500                                                                             OCEAN                                                                                                                                 (           -  -~~ ~~~~ RSUL.AWESIft          18140 JAhA
00IND    ONESIA                                                                                        t C-W                                                          dekreprpeeOpte   o0d00. N0 0100M                 .0,0060.7--
MIRRGAIO  PROJECTS I0-0X8I8000000                                                                                                                                                                                                           000 S             -
100'             1550                                      166'                                  1050                                 112'                                  1)5'                                 1100               -~~~~~~~~~c



