Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFI( IAI. t'SE: ONA
Report No. 9382 
PROJECT COMPLETION REI'ORT
BRAZII.
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE  II
MATO GROSSO RURAIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2116-BR)
FEBRUARY 26, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mai not otherwise be disclosed without W'orld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Appraisal:
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00 = Cr$88.1 (June 10, 1981)
Cr$1.00 = US$0.014
Completion:
Currency Unit - Brazilian New Cruzado (NCz$)
US$1.00 = NCz$0.67 (December 21, 1988)
NCz$1.00 = US$1.49
NCz$1.00   Cr$1,000,000
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
POLONOROESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.



FOIL OFFICIAL UI ONLY
THE WOtLD SANK
Washington. DC 204 3 3
u S A
Ofr.i NI&Otftot.CaAi
February 26, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Brazil
Northwest Region Integrated Development Program - Phase II
Mato Grosso Rural Development Project (Loan 2116-BR)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report on Brazil - Northwest Region
Integrated Development Program - Phase II, Mato Grosso Rural
Development Project (Loan 2116-BR)" prepared by the Latin America
and the Caribbean Regional Office.  No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document hu  ratricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofiMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World ank authoriation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BB            Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
CASEMAT       Companhia de Armazens e Silos do Estado de Mato Grosso
(State Warehouse and Silo Company)
CDES          Conselho do Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(Economic and Social Developr.aent Council)
CENTREINAR   Centro Nacional de Treinamento e Armazenagem
(National Center for Training and Storage)
CIEP          Companhia Financiamento da Produgao
(Company for the Financing of Production)
CODEAGRI      Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola do Estado de
Mato Grosso
(State Agricultural Development Company)
CODEMAT       Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Mato Grosso
(State Development Company)
DERMAT        Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Mato Grosso
(State Highway Department)
EMATER-MT    Empresa de Assistgncia Tecnica e Extens&o Rural do Estado
de Mato Grosso
(State Technical Assistance and(5;0r55Z*keRaion Company)
EMBRAPA       Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMPA-MT       Empresa de Pesquisa AgropecuAria do Estado de Mato Grosso
(State Agricultural Research Company)
FUNAI         Funda§ao Nacional do indio
(National Indian Foundation)
GOB           Governo do Brasil
(Government of Brasil)
GPC           Gabinete de Planejamento e Coordena9&o do Governo do Estado
de Mato Grosso
(State Cabinet of Planning and Coordination)
IBDF          Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Development Institute)
INCRA         Instituto Nacional de Coloniza§Ao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PDRI         Projeto de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(Integrated Rural Development Project)
PMU          Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projecto
(Project Management Unit)
POLOAMAZONIA Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento da Amaz8nia
(Amazonian Region Integrated Devel3pment Program)
POLONOROESTE Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Northwest Regional Integrated Development Program)
SAP          Special Action Program
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SUDECO       Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Regigo Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for Economic Development in the Center-West
Region)



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE -I
MATO GR.vSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2116-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE .i...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  ii.
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Background .                                        1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Project  Results   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8
Risks .                                                    13
Project Sustainability.                                    14
Bank Performance  ...................  .  14
Borrower's Performance  ..........  ...  ...   .  14
Project Relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . 19
Comments on Part I       ............ . 19
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned       19
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and
Lessons Learned ... .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Related Bank Loans .       .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Project Timetable .      .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Loin Disbursement .      .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Pr)ject Implementation .      .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Pr:ject Costs and Financing .    .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Project Results ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .  .   . 27
Status of Loan Covenants  ... .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .   . 29
Mission Data  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .   . 30
Staff Week . . . . . . . . . . ..     . . . . . . . . . . 30
Annexes  . . . . . . . ...              . . . . . . . . . 



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE II
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2116-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Mato Grosso
Rural Deveipment Project under the Northwest Integrated Regional Developntent
Program in Brazil. Loan 2116-BR, in the amount of US$26.4 million, was
approved on March 25, 1982, to help finance the implementation of the above
project, whose total cost was estimated at US$76.4 million. The Loan and
Project Agreements are dated May 12, 1982.  The Loan closed on December 31,
1988, after two one-year extensions of the original closing date of December
31, 1986. Final disbursement of loan proceeds took place on March 13, 1989.
Some US$22.7 million was disbursed, and US$3.7 million was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Agriculture
Operations Division of the Brazil Department in the Latin America and the
Caribbean Region. They are based on a report by the FAO Cooperative Program
after a field visit in August 1989, the Staff Appraisal Report, the
President's Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, a Borrower's progress
report by SUDECO, studies by the State of Mato Grosso, Bank supervision
reports, project correspondence and internal Bank memoranda. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower in response to Parts I and III.



- iii -
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PHASE 1I
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2116-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The Mato Grosso Rural Development Project was one in a series of
five projects approved by the World Bank between 1981 ard 1983, to support the
Northwest Integrated Regional Development Program (POLONOROESTE) in Brazil.
The Program aimed to promote orderly occupation, development and integration
into the national economy of the less developed Northwest Region; increase the
productivity, incomes, and health and social welfare of the Region's
population; and ensure that the development of the Region was consonant with
the need to protect the land resources, ecological system and indigenous
communities. The objective of the project financed under Ln. 2116-BR was to
stabilize the rural population already settled in the area of influence of the
BR-364 highway from Porto Velho to CuiabA, in the southwest of the State of
Mato Grosso, and to provide a livelihood for migrants from other parts of the
country. The project sought to promote sustainable end rational development
in a frontier area of Brazil, through the improvement of agricultural and
social services and infrastructure.
Implementation
2.          At  appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$76.4 million; it
was expected that the Bank loan of US$26.4 million would finance 35Z of total
costs net of taxes. In 1983, the project was included in a Special Action
Program to accelerate disbursements for ongoing projects in Brazil, and Bank
cost-sharing was increased to 50Z. In March 1985, disbursements were
temporarily suspended under this and the other POLONOROESTE loans. They
resumed in August 1985, after compliance with key actions under other Bank
loans for the Northwest Program. At loan closing (December 31, 1988, with
final disbursement on March 13, 1989), the Bank had disbursed US$22.7 million,
or 86Z of the original loan. Some US$3.7 million were cancelled. Final total
project costs were estimated at US$43.8 million or 57Z of the original
estimate, with the Bank loan financing just over 502 of the total cost.
Results
3.          The number of direct agricultural beneficiaries was 65Z of the
appraisal estimate (about 6,500 compared to 10,000 families). Incomes of
project beneficiaries did improve, but not as much as anticipated at



- iv -
appraisal: actual average family income is estimated to have reached only 36%
of the appraisal estim te, or US$2,400 per year (US$900 above the "without
project" situation). Relatively small yield increases of about 20% for most
crops and about 30% for mechanized corn and cotton have also occurred,
primarily because of partial adoption of improved seeds and cultural
practices. Otherwise, the technology employed remained basically unchanged.
4.          In aggregate terms, the total cultivated area increased by about
5X (as compared to 252 estimated at appraisal), and the value of production
increased by 33Z (as compared to an appraisal estimate of 212Z). The
appraisal report estimated the ERR to be 24Z. The recalculated rate of return
at project completion is about 7%. The shortfalls between the PCR and the SAR
estimates are due to the lower than expected number of project beneficiaries,
more modest yield and area increases, general price increases for farm inputs
and a drop in real prices for the main project crops.
Sustainability
5.          Finally, the project was only marginally successful in fostering a
more sustainable development strategy based on increasing the area planted
with perennial crops. The project was partly successful in retaining and
absorbing rural population in the area. Rural population in the project area
actually increased, but so did, in almost similar proportions, the population
of northern Mato Grosso and Rond6nia, in areas not covered by _he project.
Lessons Learned
6.          The  following are the main lessons learned in the course of
implementing this project, which should be taken into account in the design of
other similar operations.
(a)   The design of a project for a frontier area with a potentially
fragile natural environment should be based on better technical
information than was available at the start of this project.
Using this information, basic agro-ecological zoning should be
done in order to delineate clearly the agricultural frontier,
stabilize the land tenure situation and demarcate reserved areas.
Government commitment to implement the agro-ecological zoning
should be a condition sine qua non of future development projects
in such areas.
(b)   When an important objective of a project is to alter land use
patterns in an area, a thorough analysis should be undertaken of
the policy and regulatory framework governing those patterns, to
determine what complementary actions may be needed in addition to
investments in infrastructure and services, to stimulate the
desired results. The success or failure of a program like
POLONOROESTE rests not only on the technical quality and the
political support for the project, but also on the overall policy
framework (e.g., land regulations and fiscal incentives) to



v 
stimulate proper land use and natural resource protection.
Otherwise, investments made to protect the environment may be
undermined by stronger incentives working in the opposite
direction.
(c)   When the success of the agricultural production objectives of a
project depends significantly on credit, a careful analysis needs
to be made with respect to credit availability, accessibility, and
the appropriateness of terms and conditions. In the event that
prevailing conditions are not suitable and not amenable to change
in the short-term, the Bank should either make special provision
for credit in the project itself (on±y in exceptional
circumstances warranted by significant environmental or poverty
alleviation objectives) or it should not proceed with the project.
(d)   Project organization and management arrangements, especially when
a multitude of implementing agencies are involved, should provide
sufficient authority (including control over budgetary resources)
to the coordinating entity, in order to ensure efficient
implementation.
(e)   Innovative projects should allow for greater flexibility and a
longer start-up period.
(f)   In projects with larger than normal risks, the elements of
institutional strengthening, training and technical assistance
should be carefully planned to directly address these risks.



BRAZIL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NORTEIWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, - PHASE II
.TO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2116-BR)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM TIlE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
- Project Name:   Northwest Region Development Program - Phase II
Mato Grosso Rural Development Project
- Lpan No.:        2116-BR
- RVP Unit:        Latin America and '7ribbean Region
Country Department
- Country:         Brazil
- Sector:          Agriculture
2.    Project Background
2.01        The orderly settlement of the Northwest Region, including the
State of Rond6r.ia and part of the State of Mato Grosso, and its integration
with the rest of the country have been important Federal Government priorities
over the last two decades. During the 1970s, roads were built, colonization
schemes were luunched and fiscal incentives were extended to attract
agricultural enterprises. However, these were unable to keep pace with the
accelerating rate of spontaneous migration from elsewhere in Brazil. In 1980,
in recognition of the growing socio-economic problems caused by this migration
to the Region, the Brazilian Government launched a program of major
investments in the agricultural frontier areas of Rond6nia and Mato Grosso
(POLONOROESTE). The program was aimed at absorbing the human influx in a
sustainable manner, by increasing agricultural productivity, rural incomes and
social welfare. The major components were road construction and improvement,
consolidation of existing settlement schemes and support for new ones,
improvement of physical and social infrastructure and services, and measures
to protect the natural environment and the interests of the indigenous
population. POLONOROESTE activities were financed under five complementary
Bank loans, including the Mato Grosso Rural Development Project (see Part III,
Table 1).
2.02        Within the framework of the POLONOROESTE Program, this project was
designed to increase agricultural production in an area of relatively good
soils in southwestern Mato Grosso within the area of influence of BR-364, the
Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway, which was to be paved to all-weather standards
under another of the five loans. It was expected that the project would not
only improve the output and incomes of the existing population in the area,
but would also absorb small farmers displaced from other regions of the



-2-
country, thereby helping to decrease the pressure of migration into
ecologically more fragile areas of Mato Grosso, Rond6nia and other states of
the Amazon Basin.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.01        The Mato Grosso Rural Development Project sought to develop an
area that had been part of Brazil's agricultural frontier for the previous ten
to fifteen years. It aimed at raising the incomes and living standards of
some 17,500 smallholders with farms under 200 ha living in the project area
through: (a) promoting sustainable and rational development of agricultural
production through increases in productivity and expansion of cropped area;
and (b) improving agricultural and social services, strengthening physical
infrastructure, and improving public sectcr institutional capacity. It was
expected that the area under coffee, soybeans, cotton and rubber would
increase by some 34,000 ha, while the cultivation of beans and rice would
decline by some 8,900 ha,.
3.02        The project was to be implemented over a five-year period in nine
municipalities (about 7Z of the state area) in the southwestern part of the
State, generally considered to be an area with good agricultural potential.
The project provided for: (a) agricultural development, including
identification of the natural resource potential of the area through agro-
ecological zoning, strengthening of rural extension, agricultural research,
improved input supply and crop drying and storage; (b) physical
infrazstructure, including construction and improvement of municipal roads, and
the establishment of a road maintenance capability; (c) social infrastructure,
including the strengthening and expansion of educational and health facilities
and services, and the construction of rural water supply systems and community
centers; and (d) project administration, including assistance for project
management and coordination, and for monitoring and ongoing evaluation.
Complementary support activities such as credit for agricultural development
and the minimum price purchase program for agricultural products were to be
financed by the Government. Other activities related to this project were to
be financed or implemented by the Government under Loan 2060-BR (Northwest
Region Development Program - First Phase, Agricultural Development and
Environmental Protection Project) approved in December 1981. These included
land tenure regularization and environmental and Amerir'ian protection.
4.    Proiect Design and Organization
4.01        The project was designed as an integrated rural development
project under the POLONOROESTE regional development program. Project design
was recognized to be ambitious in light of the State's weak institutional
capacity and the need for a series of parallel and coordinated activities to
be executed under other projects or directly by the Government. However, the
priority which the Government assigned to the POLONOROESTE program, and the
design of the project monitoring, feedback and decision processes, were
expected to pave the way for project success.



-3-
4.02        The project was designed as a remedial effort to help contain a
migratory process which had already brought thousands of people to the project
area from other parts of the country and who, if they could not be absorbed,
would likely move on to more fragile areas of the Amazon Basin. In
retrospect, it appears that more attention should have been given to the
overall policy framework (including policies, regulations, fiscal incentives,
and Federal and State investment programs) which was fostering this migration,
as well as to the policies governing land use in the project area. In
addition, more attention should have been paid to the ne.d for statewide
zoning and mapping to provide the necessary technical tools to better orient
the agricultural development process.
4.03        Project design was based on some important assumptions that proved
to be optimistic. Among these were that; (a) independent of this project, the
Government would have the commitment and capacity to accelerate land
regularization and titling in order to make farmers eligible for rural credit;
(b) agricultural research could provide the extension services and the farmers
with adequate recommendations for improved crop rotations/diversification
models and mixed farming systems; and (c) the Government would provide
sufficient and timely agricultural credit for target farmers, without support
from the project. While capacity has slowly improved, political support for
accelerating land titling was weak.  It proved extremely difficult to attract
and maintain good researchers and other professionals to the remote project
area. Tested models for sustainable agriculture were limited and most of the
agricultural technology which had been developed at the time was relevant
mainly for the center and eastern parts of the State (the Cerrados) and not
the project area. Finally, immediately after appraisal, the Federal
Government changed credit regulations, suspending special credit lines to be
used by the project, and began introducing restrictions on regular official
credit.
4.04        The organization and management of the project was the
responsibility of a specially created Project Management Unit (PMU) within the
State Cabinet of Planning and Coordination (GPC). Physical implementation of
the various components was the responsibility of existing state institutions
under contractual arrangements (convenios) with the State of Mato Grosso.
Policy decisions related to the project were to be taken by the Economic and
Social Development Council (CDES) headed by the Governor and including all
State Secretaries. These administrative arrangements proved ineffective. The
PMU did not have sufficient authority to enforce decisions on project
execution, ensure interagency coordination, or monitor and supervise project
activities. During the first years, the PMU concerned itself more with
financial controls than with managing and coordinating project interventions
at the farm and community levels.
5.    Project Implementation
5.01        The Mato Grosso Rural Development Project was approved in March
1982, signed in May 1982 and became effective in August 1982. During the
project's early years, project implementation did not progress as anticipated.
Specific reasons for slow start-up included: (a) counterpart funding delays



-4-
and shortfalls, compounded by inflation rates of 200-400X p.a.; (b)
institutional weakness and manpower shortages in the implementing agencies;
and (c) delays in procurement for infrastructure construction. Following a
Mid-Term Review in November 1984, the Bank suspended loan disbursements on
this and the other POLONOROESTE loans, making resumption conditional on a
corrective Action Program, to which the Government agreed in April 1985.
Although the corrective actions related mainly to actions under the other
POLONOROESTE loans (i.e., protection of Amerindian communities and
environmental protection activities under Loan 2060- BR), they also dealt with
non-compliance under this loan, including the lack of credit availability, the
delayed construction of warehouses, and poor monitoring and control within
some implementing agencies. Disbursements were resumed in August 1985.
5.02        The original Bank loan disbursement of 342 for local expenditures
was first raised to 50? in 1983 and then to 67.5? in 1986 under the Special
Action Program for Brazil (SAP). The increased share of Bank financing and
changes in the allocation of loan proceeds managed to avoid some interruptions
in project implementation because of limited counterpart funds.
5.03        Project implementation was expected to take five years, but the
loan closing date was extended twice until December 31, 1988. The final
disbursement against this loan took place on March 13, 1989. By that time,
the project had achieved performance levels ranging from fair to good and
attained many of its physical objectives, exceeding targets in some areas of
production and service delivery. By the closing of the loan, disbursements
were about 85? of the appraisal estimates, or US$22.7 million. The final cost
of the project was US$43.8 million, of which 52? was financed by the Bank.
5.04        Agricultural Components.  The agro-ecological zoning component was
designed to identify the natural resource potential of the project area
(61,500 km2,, as a basis for improving land use management. Although
topographic maps by municipality were completed as scheduled, the soils and
agricultural survey of 55,000 km2 (scale 1:250,000) was not finished until
1986-87. In addition, detailed studies (scale 1:50,000) of areas
representative of special ecological conditions were not carried out; instead,
some studies were made of soils within the areas of experimental stations,
which were not representative of the overall area. The partial and delayed
implementation of this component undermined its objectives. To date, none of
the information generated has been used by the extension service for improving
land use management.
5.05        The project financed both agricultural and social extension.  The
extension service was to play a key role in assisting project beneficiaries to
improve agricultural production techniques and raise on-farm productivity and
incomes, with particular emphasis on crop diversification, introduction of
perennial crops, and assistance to farmers' organization/groups in training
and obtaining credit. About 6,500 farmers, or 65? of the original target,
were directly assisted, and a total of 15,500 farmers (88? of appraisal goal)
were contacted with agricultural orientation messages under the farmers' group
assistance scheme. Training programs reached 4,130 farmers (54? of targets)
and 210 extensionists (8Z above appraisal estimates). Rural extension



physical infrastructure and transportation facilities were constructedl
acquired as scheduled, but hiring of extensionists reached only 601 and 84% of
proposed targets, respectively, for agricultural and social extensionists.
5.06        Extension efforts were hindered by: (a) an extension methodology
that placed too much emphasis on quantitative goals (i.e., the number of farm
visits rather than on impact); (b) extensionist training that focussed mainly
on assisting farmers in obtaining credit, rather than in diversifying
production systems, agro-forestry and the demonstration of new crops; (c) lack
of support from and interaction with the research service; (d) scarce
availability of operating funds; and (e) low salaries affecting extensionist
morale. Nevertheless, the lack of availability of rural investment credit was
probably more responsible for the limited agricultural progress than the
performance of the extension agency per se. Following the reorientation of
the Special Action Program, a "barter" (troca-troca) system of credit in kind
and simple storage methods were introduced. These programs were well received
by farmers and, although experiencing some administrative and logistic
problems, were catalytic for the advances during the latter part of the
project period in introducing perennial and other higher-value crops and for
the noticeable improvement in small farmers' incomes.
5.07        Adaptive agricultural research was to be complementary to
nationally conducted research and aimed to focus on adaptation and selection
of varieties and cultivation techniques consistent with the logistical and
ecological conditions of the project area. Appropriate crop rotation,
diversification, and introduction of perennial crops in some of the fragile
areas of western Mato Grosso were included P-mong the objectives. The actual
number of experiments and trials exceeded appraisal targets (180 experiments
compared with 55) and, after a slow start, practicall) all physical
infrastructure was completed. However, low salaries and better opportunities
with the private sector were responsible for high personnel turnover and the
use of young researchers with little field experience.
5.08        Adaptive research results have been satisfactory for variety
selection of annual crops (rice and maize) and planting dates (beans).
Research was focussed mainly on variety trials (76% of 45 experiments proposed
for 1989) and less attention was paid to pest and disease control and almost
none to plant density, crop response to fertilizers or post harvest losses.
During the last two years, the research service started to work on perennial
crops, but more focussed objectives and improvements in research methodology
are still needed. Limited research was carried out on crop diversification,
farming systems and farm management. Finally, because of budget constraints,
a very limited coordination has been established with extension in carrying
out field demonstrations.
5.09        The construction of the physical facilities, an input supply store
and three nurseries, was completed during the project period. The input
supply operation, however, was terminated. CODEAGRI, the implementing agency,
could not compete with private suppliers because of lack of working capital
and cumbersome procedures, which made it impossible to provide timely inputs.
The input supply component was therefore limited to the supply of seeds



- 6 -
previously acquired from private dealers. Performance was better in new areas
where the private sector was not present, in the introduction of seedlings for
perennial crops and in supporting the implementation of the credit in-kind
program. The three nurseries, all in operation by 1985, produced
approximately 2.8 million seedlings, and rice, maize and beans seeds
satisfactorily reached the farmers through the credit in-kind system. These
seedlings and seeds operations benefitted about 15,000 farmers.
5.10        The input supply component also suffered from institutional
problems. CODEAGRI is essentially a public company (99.9? state and 0.1X
privately owned), which is overstaffed (4 directors and 200 staff) and is
engaged in a number of trading activities not directly focussed on small
farmers. CODEAGRI's nurseries have recently been absorbed by EMATER and are
in the process of being reorganized.
5.11        The crop drying and storage component had as its objective to
construct large warehouses with dryers, to be complementary to the Federal
Government's minimum price program for the purchase of grains. Jointly, these
efforts were expected to improve the marketing of agricultural output produced
by small farmers. Although the project met its physical targets, because of
the location and size of warehouses and dryers, small farmers did not use the
facilities and they benefitted mainly large producers. The Bank and the
Borrower decided in 1984 to reorient this component, and 11 community storage
units of 1000 tons each were constructed. Additionally, warehouse assistants
were trained and 10 offices of the executing agency in charge of the component
were reorganized.
5.12        The drying and storage model foreseen at appraisal did not meet
the requirements of small farmers. The revised strategy responded more
closely to those needs, but the effect of the component was limited in terms
of better product prices for project beneficiaries. The new approach could
not compensate for low international prices for most crops and the limited
impact of the minimum product price program, which operated independently of
this project.
5.13        Road Improvement Component.  To facilitate provision of services
and marketing of agricultural products, the project included the construction
of some 1,500 km of municipal roads and establishment and start-up support for
initial operation of a road maintenance system. A total of about 1,087 km of
roads was constructed and 3,690 kms were maintained. This represented 74? of
the construction envisaged at appraisal and almost three times the maintenance
targets. Additional maintenance units were established as a consequence of
the political subdivision of municipalities into 15, rather than the 9
original, project municipalities.
5.14        The overall performance of the road construction component was
good, with a generally acceptable standard of construction. In contrast, the
achievements in strengthening the municipal capacity to maintain the road
network were disappointing, with the result that many of the roads constructed
under the project are rapidly deteriorating. The main reasons for this are:
(i) the priority given to new construction as opposed to maintenance;



-7-
(ii) inadequate definition of what constitutes routine maintenance; and
(iii) inadequate funds made available by the Government for maintenance.
5.15        Social Development Component.  The social development component
included education, rural water supply, health/sanitation and community
organization. About 412 of the total amount estimated at appraisal was
actually spent, primarily on infrastructure. In the area of education, 80 new
schools were built and 96 were renovated, falling some 35% and 22Z short of
the appraisal targets. However, the incremental number of student places
reached 2212 of the appraisal target, because of the decision to use
facilities more intensively. After initial difficulties in educational
management, better controls were instituted in 1986, with corresponding
improvements in performance. In line with the new subdivision of the
municipalities, the project helped to restructure 15 municipal education
agencies, rather than the 9 provided for at appraisal. Some work was done on
curriculum development, but the new curriculum was implemented only on a
limited basis.
5.16        In water supply, the appraisal goals were fully met with the
construction of 24 water supply systems, maintenance of existing systems and
provision of 2900 new domestic water hookups. In the health sector, seven new
health centers were built, one expanded and new equipment acquired. A latrine
construction program lagged behind its appraisal estimates, largely because
the local population was not mobilized to support the concept. In the area of
community organization, the project succeeded in launching only two of the six
planned Community Centers and Community Councils. A chronic problem faced by
all of the social component facilities was the shortage of recurrent operating
expenditures after completion of construction.
5.17        Project Management and Coordination.  Project management at the
State level employed a staff of 43, of whom 17 were technical personnel.
Staff size exceeded the appraisal target by five technicians, who were
recruited to strengthen coordination and monitoring of the drying/storage and
social components. During the last two years of implementation, project
management and coordination improved considerably. At Lhe outset, project
management was more concerned with control over financial resources than with
project implementation and the effectiveness of the interventions. Management
problems were reflected in poor interagency coordination, lack of adequate
supervision, delayed decision-making, and delayed preparation of monitoring
reports. Reasons for these problems include the high turnover of technical
personnel, five changes in the project manager in seven years, and delayed
salary payments due to federal financial constraints, with detrimental effects
on staff performance and motivation. Total cost of this component was 70%
higher than estimated at appraisal, due to the incremental costs incurred by
the management unit for the additional staff and their related operating costs
and the fact that the project took two years longer to complete than
originally planned.
5.18        Total Project Cost.  In U.S.  dollar terms, the total project cost
was 42X less than that estimated at appraisal, due to a reduction in the scope
of the extension/research and social development components. Aggregate loan



- 8 -
disbursements, equivalent to US$22.7 million, represented about 85Z of the
loan and 522 of total project costs (further details are provided in Part
III).
6.    Project Results
6.01        General.  As one of the five operations under the POLONOROESTE
program, this project aimed to stabilize and retain in the area a rural
population that otherwise would continue its migration to the more
ecologically fragile areas of northern Mato Grosso, Rond8nia and the rest of
the Amazon Basin. Specifically, the project was expected to improve
infrastructure and services to ensure long-term economically viable and
ecologically sound agricultural development, raising the incomes and standard
of living of small farmers.
6.02        The project achieved the objectives of improving agricultural and
social services and expanding and improving physical and social infrastructure
in the project area, although on a more limited scale than expected. The
project significantly improved the road network in already populated parts of
the project area, facilitating the marketing of farm products; constructed
(under-utilized) storage and crop drying facilities; and introduced schools
and health posts into previously almost unattended rural communities.
6.03        The results with respect to raising incomes and standards of
living of target farmers were more modest. The project was only marginally
successful in fostering a more sustainable development strategy based on
increasing the area planted with perennial crops. The project was partially
successful in retaining rural population in the area. The rural population
actually increased, but so did, in a similar proportion, the population of
northern Mato Grosso and Rond6nia, outside of the project area. In
retrospect, it was probably unrealistic to expect that a relatively small area
development project would significantly alter migration rates or patterns.
6.04        More difficult to measure, but of considerable importance for the
future, is the fact that the project did help to strengthen the implementation
capacity of critical State institutions, which may ultimatelv have a wider
impact. These institutions, drawing on the lessons learned during
implementation, should now be able to better design and implement follow-up
investment I ojects in the future. By utilizing and strengthening existing
agencies, the project had a positive impact on institution-building, which
enhanced the state's technical, monitoring and coordinating capacity. Field
and supervisory staff of the extension service were increased and regional
offices started to operate, providing technical assistance coverage to remote
areas. The PMU of POLONOROESTE in the state, despite a series of problems,
did manage the coordination of large autonomous Government agencies which, in
itself, was a considerable achievement. Finally, because of the experience
and capacities which were developed, a large number of personnel at all levels
are now trained in rural project planning, administration and monitoring.
6.05        Production.  At appraisal, it was estimated that project impact on
agricultural production would derive both from increased crop yields and from



expansion in cropped area. The incremental production of the project was
expected to reach US$34 million at full development. Total SAR estimates of
cropped area and production are detailed in Annex 1 and summarized below for
the most relevant crops:
SAR Estimates for Cropped Area and Production
Total                       Incremental
With Project
Area     Production             Area     Production
(ha)    ('000 tons)             (ha)    ('000 tons)
Rice (paddy)             36,250             66.9            -500            17.9
Maize                    22,125             48.9           1,875            24.6
Beans                    16,375             10.9         -8,375              0.6
Coffee                   27,500             20.3         15,500             1/.4
Rubber                       500             0.5             500             0.5
Cotton                    2,000              3.0          2,000              3.0
6.06        As shown in Annex 2, average yields were estimated at appraisal to
increase, at full development, between 39% and 84X for annual crops and from
52X to 1342 for coffee and bananas, respectively. The expected increments
were based on the increased use of fertilizers, improved crop rotation
systems, adoption of improved genetic material and certified seeds. However,
the project's impact on crop yields was not significant except for semi-
mechanized corn and cotton which used more inputs and official technical
assistance than expected. For the remaining crops, actual yield increases
were estimated at about 20? above those expected without the project. Actual
yields were estimated on the basis of field visits, and a survey of 500
producers carried out by the PMU in the project area. A comparison of the
actual yields and those estimated at appraisal suggests that the increases
were, in the average, only about 302 of the expected levels. Details are
given in Table 2 of the Statistical Annex and summarized below for the most
relevant crops:



- 10 _
SAR Estimated and Actual Crop Yields (tons/ha)
Appraisal                             Actual
Without Project      With Project    Without Project   With Project
Rice         1.33               1.85               1.29               1.57
Maize        1.20               2.21               1.41               1.82
Beans       0.42                0.67               0.45               0.50
Coffee       1.13               1.72               1.20               1.46
Rubber       -                  1.00               -                  0.98
Cotton       -                  1.50               1.00               1.30
6.07        Total cropped area within the project area was estimated at
appraisal to reach 174,000 ha at full development, which represented an
increment of 34,000 ha. This was expected to be generated from coffee (50z),
soybeans (18Z), cotton (6Z), maize (6Z), bananas and rubber (4Z) and remaining
crops (162). Based on EMATER data, it is estimated that the total cropped
area under the project actually reached about 132,600 ha, or about 762 of the
appraisal estimate. Annex 3 shows that the expansion of some 5,000 ha was
generated mainly by rice, corn, beans and pasture, which cumulatively
accounted for about 87Z of cultivated area. The expected movement towards
perennials and more sustainable cash crops did not materialize, mainly because
of the shortage of agricultural credit and weak extension and research.
Virtually no credit was made available to target farmers; extension agencies
did not have technological packages readily usable by small farmers; and the
agricultural research efforts into Amazonian crops and production systems
started too late to generate quantifiable results under this project.
6.08        It was assumed at appraisal that the development of perennial
crops and the intensification of cultivation practices would have created
requirements for an additional 6,500 fully employed laborer years, of which
460 would have been provided by hired labor. However, based on a
recalculation of the labor requirements of the most common farm models
implemented, only 3,100 incremental laborer years were created, of which 220
laborers/year were provided by hired labor. This was due to the lower than
expected number of farmers assisted by the project, and the consequent
reduction in cropped area.
6.09        Activities Parallel to the Project.  Three activities, one
supposed to be financed directly by the Brazilian Government, and two of them
financed under another POLONOROESTE project (Loan 2060-BR), influenced the
productive and ecological objectives of this project. On-farm development by
beneficiary farmers was supposed to be financed through existing Government
rural credit programs without Bank participation (due to large subsidies
inherent in that credit). Seasonal credit was considered important for annual
crops and maintenance of perennial crops and medium- and long-term credit was
essential for the establishment of perennial crops. Practically no
agricultural credit was made available to project beneficiaries. Extension



- 11 -
agents, trained mainly to assist farmers in obtaining and using credit were
not able to develop very useful messages for small farmers without credit. A
commendable experiment in in-kind credit was tried out during implementation
with some positive results. However, this scheme, as well as new extension
approaches and research into other Amazonian crops, started too late to
generate quantifiable results under this project.
6.10        Two other activities financed under Ln. 2060-BR, but to be
implemented in the project area, included forest control and protection, and
land regularization. All infrastructural targets for forestry control,
including four control posts and strengthening of the National Forest Service
(IBDF) regional offices, were achieved. In the case of the ecological
stations, all physical targets were achieved, except for the Pantanal park for
which only approximately 70% of the planned equipment was purchased. However,
despite these protection facilities, the rate of deforestation accelerated
during the project period because of continued heavy migration and the spread
of slash and burn agriculture into environmentally fragile areas. According
to IBDF data, the percentage of the project area cleared at appraisal (1980)
stood at about 11Z. By 1985-86, the Candido Rondon Foundation estimated that
23% of the project area had been cleared. It cannot be determined what the
cleared area would have been without the project, but it is obvious that a
reduction would have occurred only in conjunction with a change in fiscal and
policy incentives for investment in the Amazon region; credit availability for
establishing sustainable tree crop agriculture; and available adaptive
research results and the establishment of a strong extension service which
could have guided agricultural development.
6.11        The land tenure regularization component for Mato Grosso, which
was financed under Ln. 2060-BR, had little stabilizing effect on the
occupation of land by small-scale farmers. Titling achieved represents only
50% of target (40% using a more restrictive classification of definitive
titles). Although other forms of authorization or licenses of occupation were
used, which in theory are acceptable as security for on-farm investment
credit, in practice the banks accepted these documents only as security for
seasonal loans. At the same time, field estimates and data provided 'y unions
and church groups indicate that there are still about 50,000 landless families
in the state interested in establishing themselves as small-scale farmers.
Furthermore, some 40,000 farmers have settled on the poor soils around Juina
and Alta Floresta in northern Mato Grosso, areas not considered apt for
sustainable agriculture.
6.12        Economic Rate of Return.  The project's economic rate of return
(ERR) at appraisal was estimated at 242. It was derived by including 100% of
project costs for agricultural extension and research, agro-ecological zoning,
storage and drying facilities, input supply facilities, municipal roads,
project coordination, management and monitoring. The benefits considered in
the analysis included all the incremental production above the "without
project" situation of the 10,000 farmers who received direct technical
assistance.



- 12 _
6.13        Using these same assumptions, the ERR was re-estimated using 1989
constant prices. Past expenditures, excluding taxes and duties, already
calculated in U.S. dollars, were adjusted to 1989 constant prices by using
M.U.V.1 deflator factors. For labor, a conversion factor of 752 was
applied, as at appraisal. Prices of tradeable goods, such as rice, maize,
rubber, cotton and coffee, were calculated at 1989 constant prices based on
World Bank Commodity Prices and Price Projections, as were fertilizer prices
(see Annexes 4 and 5). The incremental value of production of the total
project was obtained by aggregating the production from the farm models,
adjusted for actual changes in cropped areas and yields, by the number of
assisted farmers shown in Annex 6. The re-estimated ERR of the project is
about 7% (see Annex 7). Factors contributing to such a low result include the
smaller than anticipated number of farmers assisted by the project, low
productivity levels of several crops and the decrease in real prices for
coffee, maize, cotton and rubber by 29%, 31%, 36% and 172, respectively, over
the period 1982-1989.
6.14        Financial Performance.  At appraisal it was estimated that, at
full development, the weighted average annual farm family income would more
than double, reaching about US$6750/year. In the event, yield increases were
lower than expected, there was a general increase in farm input prices and a
drop in the real prices of farm products like rice, corn, cotton and rubber,
with the result that farm family incomes reached only about 35% of the
original estimate (i.e., US$2400/year, which is equal to about US$890/year
more than the without project situation). Details about cropping patterns for
each model are shown in Annex 8. The estimated financial rate of return (FRR)
at appraisal ranged from 17% to about 50. The actual FRR ranged from 8Z to
more than 50%. The discrepancy between these FRRs and the ERR (beyond the
adjustments) is mainly attributable to the fact that while for the project as
a whole, costs were not sufficiently offset because of the smaller than
expected nmnber of beneficiary families, for each individual family the
incremental financial gains exceeded considerably incremental investments and
operational costs. Similarly, although the financial rate of return on
investments was in most cases high, the limited average amount of such
investments meant that typical farm family incomes increased less than
expected at appraisal. Details on price and crop budgets used for the
financial analysis are shown in Annexes 9 to 16. A comparison of the FRR
estimated at appraisal with the nine farm models analyzed is shown below:
1/ M.U.V. (Manufactured Unit Value) 1982 to 1989 as follows: 1982 = 1.447,
1983 = 1.484, 1984 = 1.511, 1985 = 1.495, 1985 = 1.264, 1987 = 1.1.56, 1988
= 1.063, 1989 = 1.0.



- 13 -
Financial Rate of Return (Z)
Appraisal       PCR
Al Bananas                      >50         >50
A2 Rubber                        17.1         34
B1 Coffee                       >50         >50
Cl Coffee                        21.4        35
D  Livestock                     20.6        33
E  Livestock                     42.0        8
F  Coffee Sharecropper          >50         >50
B2 Cotton (0-20)                -           >50
C2 Rubber (40)                               19
6.15        Fiscal Impact.  It was assumed that at full development the
marketing tax (ICM) would have produced an annual revenue for the state of
Mato Grosso of US$3.21 million. At completion, the estimated revenues were
about 44Z of the original estimate and should reach approximately US$1.8
million per year at full development. Export taxes were estimated on the
basis of US$50 per 60 kg bag of coffee beans yielding US$12 million p.a. in
revenues to the Federal Government. It is now estimated that these are
approximately 60Z of the initial forecast. The incremental rural social
security tax of FUNRURAL was supposed to generate about US$0.6 million per
year, but has now been estimated at about US$0.2 million, or about 33% of the
appraisal estimate. These reductions in expected public revenues occurred
because of the lower level of production.
7.    Risks
7.01        The main project risks were rightly identified at appraisal as
being:
(a)   the ability of project management to achieve the necessary
coordination among all executing agencies;
(b)   the institutional capacity of the executing agencies in
accomplishing their tasks;
(c)   the technical risks associated with the incomplete knowledge of
production and soil conservation techniques appropriate for the
frontier region;
(d)   the ecological, risk of increased deforestation of poor soils; and
(e)   the risk that new settlements induced by the project could
stimulate encroachment on Amerindian reserves.
On the other hand, the magnitude and rate of spontaneous migration into the
Northwest Region and the full extent of Brazil's fiscal crisis were not
foreseen at appraisal.



- 14 -
8.    Project Sustainability
8.01        The staff strength of key institutions (e.g., the extension
service) was maintained or increased and the infrastructure for schools,
health, storage snd roads was expanded, as shown in Table 4 of Part III.
However, the relatively low level of incremental revenues to the State of Mato
Grosso generated by marketing and export taces (para. 6.15) makes the
operation and mainvenance of the project dependent upon scarce and fluctuating
budgetary allocations.  While the State and Governments are making strong
effort to maintain the investments made under the project, existing fiscal
constraints raise doubts about their long-run sustainability.
9.    Bank Performance
9.01         The Bank's involvement has been consistent with average Bank input
for agricultural projects throughout the life of this project. Initial
identification, preparation and subsequent appraisal extended over a period of
two and one-half years and absorbed a total of 64 Bank staff weeks in the
field. A total of 15 supervision missions were fielded over a period of seven
years. The average mission had a duration of 4 to 5 field days, probably too
short for a project of this complexity, although there were two longer multi-
sector missions with a duration of 10-13 field days each. On some occasions,
as reported by the project coordinators, issues and problems identified during
supervision missions did not receive sufficient follow-up by the Bank.
Problems like availability of credit and storage/drying, would have deserved
rectifying action earlier on without waiting approximately three years. On
other issues such as the recruitment of personnel for institutional
strengthening and/or timely availability of counterpart funds, the Bank should
have pressed for a stricter adherence to the agreed covenants. In retrospect,
the Bank's decision to increase the percentage of project costs financed by
the loan and to extend the project by two years proved to be correct. It
enabled the agencies involved to use the experience gained in the first years
to execute the remaining part of project components in a more efficient way,
and valuable experience was gained for future projects.
10.   Borrower's Performance
10.01       The Borrower cooperated closely with the World Bank and FAO/CP
missions during t-ie preparation and appraisal of the project and it was
supportive of supervision missions and open to suggestions for improvements.
However, there is also no doubt that the Borrower did not give the required
counterpart funding priority to the POLONOROESTE projects, partly because of
the prolonged period of economic crisis and fiscal constraints. This delayed
the recruitment of technical staff and the procurement of important civil
works and equipment, caused a high turnover of personnel and generally reduced
the mobility of project administrative and field staff, thereby slowing
implementation of the productive components of the project and compromising
its overall effectiveness. The Borrower implemented, although with some
delays, the main loan covenants, except for the one relating to the provision
of agricultural credit. Regarding project management, the Borrower performed



- 15 -
as well as could be expected given the organization and management structure
of the POLONOROESTE Program which were weak in terms of interagency
coordination and decision making. Within the limitations imposed by the
financial/economic status of the country, staff resources were reasonably
deployed and trained.
11.   Proiect Relationships
11.01       The Bank-Borrower relationship, satisfactory until the end of
1984, became strained during 1985. In fact, in March 3.985, following the
communication of the critical findings of the November 1984 Mid-Term Review of
the POLONOROESTE Program, a moratorium on further investments was declared and
resumption of financing was made conditional on the results of a Special
Action Program, agreed by the Government in April 1985. Disbursements were
normalized in August 1985 after key items of the Action Program were complied
with. From that time onwards, apart from occasional misunderstandings
originating from controversial orientations given by different specialists
participating in the Bank's supervision missions, a fruitful dialogue was re-
established between the Federal Government and the Bank on the one side, and
the implementing agencies on the other, about the implementation of the
various project components.
11.02       Some of the imbalances observed in 1985 and the detrimental effect
on the Program of suspending disbursements might have been avoided if there
had been closer coordination among Bank units assessing earlier implementation
of the POLONOROESTE Program, so that its strengths and weaknesses would have
been appreciated earlier on. The Bank should also have reacted more rapidly
and firmly in cases where important conditionalities were not being met by
either insisting on compliance or, where the Government was clearly unable to
comply, by identifying and agreeing on alternative solutions.
12.   Consulting Services
12.01       There were relatively few consultant services utilized by the
project.
(a)   FIPE Evaluation Team: The Institute for Economic Research of the
University of Sao Paulo was contracted to conduct an on-going
independent evaluation of POLONOROESTE, including a report for the
Mid-Term Review of the project in 1984. Relations between SUDECO
and FIPE became tense and at times acrimonious, as FIPE filed
increasingly critical reports on project performance. From FIPE's
perspective, SUDECO and project management were defensive and
unwilling to consider constructive criticism. From SUDECO's
perspective, FIPE's evaluation was superficial and heavily based
on second-hand information, and concentrated on documenting
problems without offering practical alternative solutions. Some
of the Bank's supervision reports rated FIPE's reports as
outstanding. Eventually, however, the value to project management
of the evaluation reports declined because of the atmosphere of
mistrust.



- 16 -
(b)   CENTREINAR.  This firm was responsible for a study on the
establishment and location of communal warehouses. This proved
crucial in stimulating a reorientation of the respective project
component, although problems concerning the adequacy of storage
facilities for small farmers persisted.
(c)   FAO/UNDP BRA 87/037.  From the beginning of 1988, technical
assistance was provided under the FAO/UNDP BRA 87/037 project.
Three project officers based in Cuiaba have been assisting with
economic/project analysis, marketing and Amerindian communities.
Their assistance was much appreciated by StTDECO, and they made
substantial contributions to the preparation of the follow-up Mato
Grosso Natural Resource Management Project and to the draft
working paper for this PCR.
13.   Lessons Learned
13.01          The follcwing are the main lessons learned from project
implementation, which may be relevant for the design of other similar
operations.
(a)   General
(i)   A project which will be implemented in frontier areas
with a fragile natural environment should be based on
better technical information than was available at the
start of this project. In particular, basic agro-
ecological zoning should be done as a basis fo.
controlling expansion of the agricultural frontier, the
land tenure situation and the demarcation of reserved
areas. Government commitment to implement the
agroecological zoning should be a condition sine qua non
of future development projects in such areas.
(ii)   When an important objective of a project is to alter land
use patterns in an area, a thorough analysis should be
undertaken of the policy and regulatory framework
governing those patterns, to determine what complementary
actions may be needed in addition to investments in
infrastructure and services, to ensure the desired
results. The success or failure of a program like
POLONOROESTE rests not only on the technical quality and
the political support for the project, but also on the
overall policy framework (land regulations and fiscal
incentives) to ensure proper land use and natural
resource protection. Otherwise, investments made to
protect the environment may be undermined by stronger
incentives to degrade it.
(iii)   When the success of the agricultural production
objectives of a project rests on the widespread



- 17 -
availability of credit to target farmers, a careful
analysis should be made as to whether such credit
actually exists in the volume and on terms which are
suitable for the project, and whether project farmers
will be considered eligible by the banking system. In
the event that these conditions are not met, the Bank
should either make special provision for credit in the
project itself (only in exceptional circumstances
warranted by significant environmental or poverty
alleviation objectives) or it should not proceed with the
project.
(iv)   Projects which are innovative in type and design should
allow for greater flexibility and a longer start-up
period.
(v)   In the presence of above-average risks, institutional
strengthening, training and technical assistance
requirements should be carefully assessed.
(vi)   In order to create the required implementation capacity,
ways and means to motivate field personnel have to be
found, in order to reduce high turnover, and attract and
deploy new staff.
(b)   Project Management
(i)   Project organization and management arrangements,
especially when a multitude of implementing agencies are
involved, should give sufficient authority (including
control over budgetary resources) to the coordinating
entity to ensure efficient implementation.
(ii)   A thorough analys.s should be made of cumbersome
financing and b dgeting procedures and possible
alternatives should be agreed upon to avoid delays in
project implementotion.
(iii)   The project monitcyung and evaluation system should be
more oriented towar"'3 assessment of the physical and
economic impact of re project and technical results
obtained, than toward. the administrative control of the
financial resources.
(c)   Production-Based Components
(i)   A reorientation of the adaptive research/extension
service programs is required to make them more quality
oriented and impact oriented. Production economics,
agroforestry models, diversified production systems and



- 18 -
farm trials on demonstration plots should be the basis of
the new research/extension messages.
(ii)   Distribution of seeds and seedlings should be undertaken
by the public sector only in the remote areas which are
not likely to be well served by private dealers. Also,
formation of farmers' groups to produce seeds and
seedlings shovKd be encouraged.
(iii)   Establishment of simple storage/drying facilities should
be encouraged only after a careful assessment of the
ability and willingness of the farm group to assume
responsibility for managing the warehouses is made.
(iv)   An effective road maintenance program is required for the
municipalities of the project area. This requires, in
addition to equipment, technical assistance and staff
training in the fields of contract maintenance, community
labor contracts and the use of mechanized units.
(d)   Social Sector Components.  For the social sector components, more
encouragement should be given to the target group and community
participation. Projects should be based on a system whereby
beneficiaries can select, plan, implement and manage local
development projects best suited to their own needs. Strong
emphasis should be given to operational maintenance, staff
training and supervision.
14. Proiect Documentation and Data
14.01       The Staff Appraisal Report provided an important framework for the
Bank and Borrower to implement the project. Although the PMU maintained
project implementation records, not all data relevant to the preparation of a
PCR were readily available. Implementing institutions generally did not
maintain records and data to serve as a basis for a broad ex-post evaluation
but rather for short-term monitoring of mainly financial project results
against targets.



- 19 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Comments on Part I
1.01        The factual information regarding project and country data was
prepared by the participating institutions and included in a detailed Working
Paper prepared by the National Coordination of POLONOROESTE in September 1989.
The data were discujsed and cross-checked in the field during the visit of a
FAO/CP mission whi_h assisted in the preparation of Chapter I of this PCR.
This information also served as the basis for the Tables presented in Part
III.
2.    Evaluation of the Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
2.01        The Bank's involvement was intensive throughout the project cycle
and on many occasions very perceptive of local difficulties. In 1983, for
example, because of the Government's difficulties in providing adequate
counterpart funding, the World Bank increased its participation in project
financing from 34Z to 50X (see Amendment to Loan Agreement, December 1983).
In 1985, however, at the time of the six months' suspension of disbursements,
a more reflective attitude might have been helpful, considering that the main
reasons for suspending disbursements were more related to defaults in the
implementation of other loans under the POLONOROESTE Program (particularly Ln.
2060-BR), rather than to deficiencies in the Mato Grosso Project itself.
2.02        Bank personnel were recognized as highly qualified in their
respective fields. However, on occasion, the mission composition and/or
insufficient briefing of new mission members made it difficult for them to
address effectively the kind of implementation problems which were occurring.
This sometimes created unnecessary misunderstandings and delays in critical
decisions regarding in project implementation.
2.03        The major lessons learned are:
(a)   Bank-Borrower relations should be characterized by the utmost
sense of cooperation based always on mutual agreements. Taking
unilateral decisions should always be avoided because, apart from
deteriorating project relationships, this could also adversely
affect project implementation;
(b)   Communications between the Bank and the Borrower, particularly in
the case of mission composition, timing and briefing of mission
members, should be a continuous and well documented process. Some
problems could have been prevented if the Bank had consulted with
the Borrower concerning the composition of supervision missions
and avoided frequent changes in mission personnel.



- 20 -
3.    Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
3.01        The performance of the Borrower was clearly affected by the
country's prolonged economic crisis beginning in 1982, which jeopardized the
overall availability of counterpart funds for the project and in particular
for the agricultural credit component. This limitation, coupled with problems
such as difficulties in recruitment and high turnover of personnel,
contributed to the low institutional performance. In the case of the
extension service, this affected the overall impact of the production-based
components.
3.02        During the beginning of project implementation, the management of
the project also suffered from some problems, e.g. poor interagency
coordination, high turnover of personnel and weak monitoring of project
activities. Only during the last years of implementation did the project
management come to grips with these problems and become more concerned with
the impact and overall performance of the project.
3.03        The major lessons learned were:
(a)   The agroecological zoning exercise should, if possible, be
conducted well before implementation of agricultural investments.
(b)   Policy issues need to be raised and addressed to reduce any
conflicts between project methods and goals and the existing
policy framework;
(c)   When faced with difficulties in providing adequate counterpart
funding for essential components, as in the case of the
agricultural credit component, corrective actions and alternative
solutions should have been explored and proposed earlier on to
avoid implementation delays.
(d)   The organization and management of a project as complex as the
Mato Grosso Project should be as concerned with the evaluation of
the technical aspects of the project as it is with financial
administration. This requires, inter alia, the establishment of a
strong monitoring and evaluation system;
(e)   The project implementation capacity has to be maintained in order
to guarantee the proper project achievements. It is essential,
therefore, to find ways of raising staff motivation and reducing
personnel turnover.



- 21 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Table 1: IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan Number                     Year of     Purpose of                Status
Approval    Project
--Loan 2062-BR                  1981        The centerpiece of        Closed
Northwest Highway                         POLONOROESTE was the    1988.
Project                                   completion of a           PCR
highway -BR-364-         under
linking Cuiaba (the      preparation
capital of the State
of Mato Grosso) and
Porto Velho (the
capital of the State
of Rond6nia)
--Loan 2060-BR                  1981        Designed to upgrade       Extended to
Agricultural                              existing agricultural   03/31/90.
Development and                           settlements in            PCR under
Environmental                             central Rondonia and    preparation
Protection Project                        to strengthen
(Northwest I)                             environmental
protection and
ecological research
in the POLONOROESTE
area
--Loan 2061-BR                  1981        Designed to improve       Closed
Northwest Health                          and maintain health       1988.
Project                                   conditions in the         PCR under
settlement areas of      preparation
Rondonia
--Loan 2353-BR                  1981        Supported                 Extended to
New Settlements                           colonization of           03/31/90.
Project (Northwest                        unoccupied lands in       Further
III)                                      Rondonia                  extension
under
considera-
tion
Comments. In 1980, in recognition of the growing socio-economic problems
caused by accelerating migration, the Brazilian Government launched a program
of major investments in the Northwest agricultural frontier areas of Rondonia
and Mato Grosso. The Integrated Development Program for Northwest Brazil
(POLONOROESTE) aimed to absorb the human influx in an orderly and sustainable
manner. POLONOROESTE activities have been supported by five complementary
Bank loans including the Mato Grosso Development Project (Northwest II).



- 22 -
B. Project Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                         Date Planned         Revised Date         Actual Date
Identification <1>               April 1990                                April 1980
Preparation <2>                  June 1980                                 April 1981
Prapprsisal                                                                May 1981
Appraisal                        June 1981                                 June 1981
Project Brief                    July 1981                                 July 1981
Loan Negotiations                December 1981                             January 1982
Board Approval                   January 1982                              March 1982
Loan Signature                                                             May 1982
Loan Effectiveness               August 1982                               August 1982 <3>
Loan Closing                     December 1986        December 1988        December 1988
Loan Disbursement                June 1987            June 1989            March 1989
Closing
_________________
<1>     Project Identification made by WB and FAO/CP personnel.
<2>     Preparation made with FAO/CP assistance.
<3>     With retroactive financing starting 1 July 1981.
Comments:
No main issues arose during the project cycle other than those described
in Part I reflecting tho implementation history of the project.
C. Loan Disbursement
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
1982    1983    1984    1986    1986    1987    1988    1989
Appraisal estimate       3.20    8.30   14.60   20.40   26.00       -        -    22.87
Actual <1>                 -     1.88    6.77   10.89   13.19   16.18   17.94
Actual as X of estimate   -        22       47      63      61       68      89      8S
_________________
<1>     Including payments up to final disbursement.
Note:   Final disbursement against the loan was made on March 13, 1989. Undocumented balance
of the Special Account was refunded to the Bank December 29, 1989.



D. Project Implementation
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
Aoricultural Services
C  o  m  p  o  n  e  n  t  s         Units   SAR Target   Revised Target   Cumulative Achievement             R e a a r k s
AGROECOLOGICAL ZONING
Soils aptitude surveys                km2       55 000                                    55 000           - Excluding Vale do
topographical mapsimunicipality   no.               10                                        I               Guapore to  be
financed under
Northwest III
FXTENSION SERVICE
Extension otfices                    Units           1             19                         19
Iraining of extensionists             no.           195                                      210
lialning of farm leaders              no.          500                                       215
-raining of rural workers             no.        7 100                                     3 914
firm.rs groups I)riented              no.       17 SOt                                    15 464
Assisted farmers                      no.       I0.OOU                                     6 497
Lipmostratioii units established    no              150                                       61
Tpchrircians *mployed                 no.           91                                        61
AbRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Ccis5trslct ton of regional center   no               I             -                           I
Fperiment ;tationis                  no              3             -                           3
M-toreolinitcal stations              no.             6             -                           3
ily(1lo9liral stAt ions              no             6              -
(Cisaba off ire                       no              I             -                          I
f4perimelits                          no            55                                       180
E[ttablsiemeiit of UB seeds          no              I                                        I
R'se.irarl iInformation               no            55                                        41
Prodiuced seeds                       ton             -                                      L86           - Reoriented in 1985
by U 8 supervision
mission
4  INPUTS SUPPLY
ConstruLction of posts                no              I             -                           I
Nurseries .sljblishment               no              3             -                           3
'Pedlinqs produced                   no              -              -                 2.794.500
Rthbber                           no              -              -                   660 000
Coftefe                           no.             -              -                 1.601 000
CitrIts                           110.            -              -                   155.000
forestry                          no              -              -                   185 000
5.-ods pror.Jsc-J                     ton             .             -                      1 022
Pjrrchaseei s.srjs                    toil                                                 1.255
foo,itiil ni,r,,eries                 no                            8                          8           - Reoriented in 1985
by W 8 SPN mission



Table 4, cont'd
Construction and infrastructure
C  o  m  p  o  n  e  n  t  s        Units  SAR Target   Revised Target   Cumulative Achievement    R e m a r k s
5  CROP ORYING AND STORAGE
-  Construction of warehouses         no./ton  3/18.000                  -              3/18.000
-  Co'istr,gction of communal
warehouses         no./ton                    11/11.500              11/11.500         - Reor/ed WB/SPN 1985
-  nryers                               no.            5                                        S         - Reor/ed WB/SPN 1985
-   iquipment (dryers.balances,etc)   no.              -                23                     40         - Reor/ed WB/SPN 1985
Frairnin.  of attendants             no.            -                11                    11          - Reor/ed WB/SPN 1985
-  ofrice restructuoring               Units            -               10                      0         - Reor/ed WB/SPN 1985
6  Mij.I4CIPAL ROADS
- Roads improved                        km         1.470                 -                 1.087
-  Roads maintained                     km         1.470            3.690                  3.690          - Reor/ed  March 1986
-  Purchase of equipment               Units          95               120                    120         - Reor/ed  March 1986
-  Oridges constructed                  m              -             1.386                 1.386          - Reor/ea  March 1986
-  Tech. group formed                   no.            4                                        4
-  Roads: studies and design            km         1.470                 -                 1.174
-  Maintenance group                   Units           5                 7                      7
- Assisted municipalities               no.           10                15                     15          - Number increased
because of new
administrative
subdivisions



Table 4, cont'd
Social Services and Administration
C  o  m  p  o  n  e  n  t  s         Units   SAR Target   Revised Target   Cumulative Achievement             R e ma r k s
7. EDUCATION
-  Schools                               no.           126                                        80          -Reorttation WB/SPN
-  Schools restructured                  no.           122                                        96          -Reorltation US/SPI
-  Training: professors/directdrs    no.            1.818                                     1.900
-  Equipament for other schools          no.             -           227                        227           -Reor/tation WS/SPI
Constr/equip. multipur. schools   no.                 3             -                           I          -Reor/tatton UB/SPN
-  Formation of municipal groups         no.             9             15                        IS           -Reor/tation WB/SPI
Stronghtening coord. Cuiaba           no.             I             -                           I           Following new
municipal administ.
-  Preparation of rural curriculum   no.                 I              -                          -          -Not concluded
-  Number of posts                      Units      31.520                                    69.618
8 RURAL WATER SUPPLY
-  Water supply systems                  no.            24              -                        24
-  Maintenance of existing systems   no.                35              -                         35
-  People attended                       no.       20.455                                    22.450                                                  %n
-  Private branches/links                no.             -         2.900                      2.980
-  Training of personnel                 no.            35              -                         35
9. HEALTH ANO SANITATION
-  Healthi centers                       no.             7                                         7
-  Equipments of health posts            no.            30                                        18
Expansion post of Caceres             no.             I             -
-trainiiig of personnel               no.          123                                        74
Latrines construction                 no.        5.400                                       723           - Reor/ed by WB/SPH
-  Purchase of ambulances                no.            14                                        14                  in 1984
-  Health laboratory                     no.             I                                         I
-  Rycicles purchase                     no.           116                                        26          -
-  Helth centers restructuring           no.             5              4                          4          -
IO.COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION
Commiunity centers                    no.             6              -                          2
-  Community councils                    no.             6              -                          2
Fi.)d laboratories                    no.             -             3                           3          - Based on the work
-  Lonimilisity associations            assoc.           -            125                        125              of FAO/87/37
-  Production groups                    groups           -            8S                         85                   projet
-  Rural youth groups                   groups           -            39                          39
11 ADMINISTRATION
Rejlional cenler                      no.             2              -                         2
-  Tr.iiiiig of personnel                no.           38             43                          43          - Progranmne reor/ed
Ma111teii.ice costs                   no.             I              -                          I                 in 1985



- 26 -
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
Major elements in the cost estimates at appraisal were: civil works
(US$25.6 million); vehicles and equipment (US$6.0 million); field works,
personnel salaries and consultancy (US$20.33 million) and project management
(US$2.50 million), totalling to a base project costs of US$54.43 million.
Physical contingencies (US$5.95 million) and price contingencies (US$16.01)
raised the total project costs to US$76.39 million. Re-estimated project
costs are summarized below:
Table 6: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(USS million)
S.A.R.                      Actual
EstFi-mx&tes <1>   (%)         <1>        (%)
A. Agricultural Services
Agroecological zoning                      1.28         2            0.38         1
Rural extension                           10.98        20            5.82        18
Adaptive research                          4.40         8            2.44         S
Input supply                               0.46         1            1.74         4
Sub-Total:                   17.11        ri           10.38 
S. Production Infrastructure
Drying and storage                         6.78        12            4.88        10
Municipal roads                           10.90        20           17.88        41
Sub-Total:                   17.6e        32           22.1-8
C. Social Development
Eduction                                  12.18        22            a.88         8
Rural water supply                         1.60         3            1.83         4
Heolth and sanitation                      3.06         6            1.41         8
Comnunity organization                     0.40         1            0.12         1
Sub-Total                   17.14        YE             I0 iT
D. Project Management                          2.60         6            4.26        16
E. Totl Project
as-eline costs                            64.43       100           43.76       100
Physical contingencIes                     6.96        11
Price contingencies                       1.601        29             -
Total Project Costs:        7  39 <2>  1i4            437 7       100
<1>    Excluding Front End fee on loan.
<2>     Including about USS1.63 million of local taxes. Differences due to rounding.



- 27 -
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
Source                                Planned                       Final
(USsiT lT'-o_n)   (%)       (USSmi I 1117   (%)
World Bank loon                    26.4        34.0             22.7       61.9
GOS                                60.0        68.0             21.1       48.1
Total:                     6_4       1000              43.8       100.0
F. Project Results
Table 7: DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
Indicators                     Units          ADpprisal   Estimate at       Estimate at
E;tlmete    alo-si-no Dat-   FuTT Development
Farm families                     no.           10,000        6,497             8,497
Total cropped area             '000s ha            174           133              133
Totnl incr.val.prod.          USsmillion            34             8                7
Road assisted                    no.                10            15               16
municipalities
Schools, number of               no.            81,620       69,618            69,618
created posts
Water supply beneficiaries    families         20,466        22,460            22,460
Incremental on-form jobs       man/years        6,500         1,567             1,868
Table 8: ECONOMIC IMPACT
Appraisal          PCR
Esti mate
Economic Rate of Return                           24%               7%
Underlying Aesumptions
Incremental paddy production (tons)             17,900           8,000
*      maizte                             24,600            9,470
*      beans                                 800           -1,747
*      coffee    *                        14,400            1,298
*      rubber    *                           500            1,742
Comments:
In order re-estimating the economic  rate of return,  the PCR used the
same principal assumptions as the SAR. Past expenditures, however, were
adjusted to 1989 constant prices (for details, see Part I, paras 6.6 and 6.7).



- 28 -
Table 9: FINANCIAL IMPACT
S.A.R.             PCR
(%)
Financial rate of return
of form models:
Bananas (0-20 ha)                             > 60                  s o0
Rubber  (0-20 ha)                             17                    84
Coffee  (0-20 ha)                             > s0                > so
Coffee  (20-100 ha)                           21                    85
Livestock (20-100 ha)                         21                    88
Livestock (100-200 ha)                        42.0                   8
Coffee Sharecropper                           > 60                > s0
Cotton                                                              so>5
Rubber 40 ha                                    -                   19
Other Financial Indicators:
(USiMIllion)
ICM Revenues                                   8.2                1.6
Export taxes on coffee                        12.0                7.2
FUNRURAL                                       0.8                0.2
Table 10: STUDIES
Studies                       Purpose                Status              Impact
Independent <1>            To evaluate the direct       Completed      Used for the 1984
outside evalustion of      and indirect impact of                      Mid-Term Review
project performance        the project for the
Mid-Term Revieow
(by FIPE)
Establishment and          To re-orientate the          Completed    Usod to re-orientate
localization of            storage/drying                            the storage component
community warehouses       component                                  in 1986
(by CENTRINAR)
(1)     Financed under the Northwest I phase project.



- 29 -
G. Status of Covenants
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
SECTION/COVENANT                     COVENANT DATE           STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
3.02       Detalled annual work plan    Each 31 October           Oft.n received with delay
3.03(a)    Insurance of imported goods            -               Complied
3.04(s)    Furnish plans, specific-               -               Often recelved with delays
t.Lns contract documents
3.04(b)    Executing ontities to                  -               Complied with difficulty.
maintain records                                       The collected date
does not allow for
adequate analysis.
3.04(biii) Quarterly progress              Within 3 months        Complied always with
reports                        after end of quarter  delays.
3.04(d)    Evaluation report on            31 March 1984          Complied with difficulty.
project execution                                     FIPE report was partially
accepted by SUDECO.
3.04(e)    PCR                             8 months after         Complied
closing date
3.06(a/b)  Project facilities to be              -                Complied
properly maintained
4.01(a)    Ensure timely *vail-                  -                Not complied because of
ability of credit                                     the country's financial
constraints. Credit
component re-oriented
in 1985.
4.01(b)    SUDECO to evaluate credit             -                Complied
component
4.02       Maintain CFP in full                  -                Complied with difficulty
operation in the project                              and scarce success
area
6.02       Executing agencies to                 -                Complied
maintain separate accounts
6.03       Provide certified accounts   8 months after            Complied
closing fiscal year
6.04       Audited accounts by            Not later than 4        Complied. Generally with
independent auditors          months of closing       delay
Bank Fiscal year



- 30 -
Table 12: BANK MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Stae of         Month   Number of   Days of   Specialization   Performance        T :ts of
Project Cycle    Year    Persons        Fi        R reent           Rating Status    rolems
Z-5    ~ <2>                     <4)                <5>           (6)
Through           6/80         1       1.02 <3>        E                  -
Appraisal         e/81.        3      18.14 <3>    E, C, A
7/81        8       46.02 <3>  E,C,A,H,R,En,
FA,I
Supervision       6/82         1         4             E                  1
4/83        1          8             E                  1
4/83        2          7            E, C                1          F, M
2/84        2          8            A, En               2          F, P
12/84        9 *        4       E,C,A,H,En,S,F,I,R       2          F, P
4/86        4          4       S, Lo, F, Ls             3          F,P,M
8/86        2         13            S, A                3           F,P,M
9/85        1          2             A
1/88        1          2             Ts                 -
3/8e        2          2            S, R                3          F,P,M
6/88        7 a       10       S,R,En,Ts,A,An           3           F,P,M
7/86        1          7             Cs                 3
8/88        1          7             A
7/87        2          6            S,R                 3
11/87        1          4             E                  2
5/88         1         6             E                  2
_________________
<1>     Date of return to headquarters.
<2>     Multiple purpose missions marked Cs)
<3>     Expressed in manweeks.
<4>     E = Economist,  C = Civil Engineer,  A = Agronomist,  H = Rural Health
Specialist,  R = Road Engineer,  En   Environmentalist,  FA = Financial
Analysts, I = Institution Specialist, To = Tree Crops Specialist,
An = Anthropologist, Cs = Community Development Specialist.
<6>     1 = Prob!em Free,  2 = Moderate Problem,  3 = Major Problems
<8>     F = Financial,  M = Managerial,  T = Technical,  P = Political,
0   Other.
Ta' L1e 13     STAFF INPUT
(Staff weeks)
EX               80     QL       82      83       DA     la       DA       87      92     89      i       TotIl
Preappraisal     1.0   45.0     1.2                                                                       47.2
Appraisal              18.1    32.1                                                                       60.2
Negotiation                     6.9 s.9
Supervision                     6.0      9.7    26.8   26.2      18.8    11.9     6.2    3.6   16.0      124.9
Other                          12.9      1.1      .4                                                      14.4
TOTAL            1.0   83.2    69.3    10.8    27.2   26.2       18.6    11.9     6.2    3.6   16.0      247.7
_________________________________----      -     --            --              -    -      --           -



- 31 -
Annex 1
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Appraisal Estimates <1>
With  Project                    Incremental
Area   Production  Yields        Area   Production  Value
(ha)  ('000s tons) (ton/ha)   (ha)  ('000s tons) (US$m)
Rice (paddy)        36,250      66.9       1.85        -500      17.9      2.54
Corn                22,125      48.9       2.21       1,875      24.6      2.79
Beans               16,375      10.9       0.67      -8,375       0.6      0.46
Manioc root          2,750      42.8      15.56         -        12.1      0.62
Bananas              3,125      34.9      11.17         775      23.7      1.61
Coffee              27,500      20.3       1.72      15,500      14.4    16.02
Rubber                 500       0.5       1.00         500       0.5      1.15
Cotton               2,000       3.0       1.50       2,000       3.0      1.02
Soybeans             6,000      11.2       1.87       6,000      11.2      1.91
Other crops          4,875       3.7       0.76       3,625       2.8      1.59
Beef                   -         3.07       -           -         1.48    2.18
Milk                   -   16,943.5 <2>   700 <3>    -   10,824.5 <2> 2.09
Pasture             52,500                                         -        -
Total
Cropped Area:       161,000                          34,000               33.98
<1>     See World Bank Appraisal Report No.3635-BR.
<2>     Expressed in thousands of litres.
<3>     Expressed in litres/cow/year.



- 32
Annex 2
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SAR Yield Estimates           PCR Yield Estimates
W/o      With      Z          W/o       With       %
Project   Project             Proiect   Proiect
-     tons/ha -------       --------tons/ha--------
Rice (Paddy)           1.33     1.85      39         1.29      1.57      22
Corn                   1.20     2.21      84         1.41      1.82      29
Beans                  0.42     0.67      60         0.45      0.50      11
Manioc root           11.16    15.56      39        13.00    13.04
Bananas                4.77    11.17    134          7.00      8.60      23
Coffee                 1.13     1.72      52         1.20      1.46      22
Rubber                  -       1.00      -           -        0.98
Cotton                  -        1.50     -          1.00      1.30      30
Soybeans                -       1.87      -
Other crops            0.72      0.76      6         0.0       0.0
Beef                    -         -                    31        38      23
Milk                    360 <1>  700 <1> 94           119 <1>  171 <1> 44
c1>     Expressed in litres/cow/year.



- 33 -
Annex 3
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Area Assisted by the Extension Service
ins Compared to the Target Area
(ha)
Crop                           Assisted           Target           Z Target
Cotton                            8,087             2,000               404
Rice                            24,892            36,250                 76
Banana                            3,253             3,125               104
Cassava                             218             2,750                 8
Corn                             16,067           22,125                 73
Beans                           10,127            16,375                 62
Coffee                            3,277           27,500                 12
Rubber                            1,900               500               380
Soybeans                            -              6,000
Other crops                         -               4.875               -
Total Crops:                    67,821           121,500                 56
Pasture                         64,836            52,500                124
Total:                          132,657          174,000                 76



- 34 -
Annex 4
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Prices Derivation
Cotton    Maize    Rice    Rubber    Coffee
............... .(US$/ton) .
World Bank price
projections in 1989             1,480       109     296      1,271     3,140
constant dollars <1>
Price adjusted because
of quality <2>                  1,332        -      266        -       2,826
Overseas transport
and insurance                   -220       +60    +100        +200      -150
Prices at Port Santos:          1,112       169     366      1,471     2,676
Transport to project area        -100      +25      +25        +80      -100
1,002      194      391     1,551      2,576
Conversion factors for
processing (Z)                     35        -       55         33         43
Converted prices                  350      194      215        511     1,108
Processing costs <3>              -25        -      -20        -77      -166
Farmgate Prices:                  325      194      195        434       942
_________________
<1>     Based on World Bank prices projections bulletin October 1988.
<2>     Adjusted prices 90Z of projected prices.
<3>     Processing costs: cotton (7Z), rice (92), rubber and coffee (152)



- 35 -
Annex 5
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Price of Fertilizer
Urea              Potassium
Chloride
........ (US$/ton) .
World Bank price
projections in constant                 179                 96
1989 dollars <1>
Overseas transport
and insurances                         +100               +100
C.I.F. Price Santos                     279                196
Port handling, storage
and losses                              +70                +70
Transport to project area               +60                +60
Farmgate prices:                        409                326
_       Be nr_k i pj i                           bli c e 9
<l>     Based on World Bank price projections bulletin October 1988.



BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Parti;cpating Farmers
Farm Model/Crop         Years   1             2             3             4             5            6             7
Al  Banana                    125           247           414           681          616           616           852
Al  Rubber                      6            12            19            26            28           28            30
81  Coffee                     44            87           146           203           216          215           228
82  Cotton                    410           807         1,364         1,901        2,012         2,012         2,130
Cl  Coffee                    100           198           332           468           495          496           623
C2  Rubber                      10           18            30            42            44           44            46
F  (Melero)                    68           136           226           31S           333          333           352                       e
D  (Livestock)                424           842         1,409         1,978        2,091         2,091         2,212
E  (Livestock)                 62           122           208           290           307          307           324
Total Participation:        1,249         2.466         4,134         6.802        6.141         6,141         6,497
a,



BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RLRAL DEVELOPMENT PRtOJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECWON41C ANALYSIS
(US$ 000)
1982    1983     1984    1985    1988    1987       1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    199          1999    2000    2001
beVabja of P-od-top   132 6 M77  8   1692 9  4218 6  6495.2  7970.0   9115.1  9615 7  9431 1 10330.5  9938 2  7836.7  8535 3  9705 5 10034 4 10248 4 10502.1 10569 3 10602 4 10611 3
Total Banaf,t.               132 6   777 8   1692 9  4218 6  6495.2  7970 0   9115.1  9615 7  9431.1 10130 5  9938 2  7836.7  8535 3  9705 5 10034 4 1C0248 4 10502 1 10569 3 10602 4 10611 3
Total Costs
Zonsaaato                     389    88 6    137 9    87.5    79.    32.9             -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        - 
E.ta.a,on S,-.csa            826 5  1127 2   1387 6  1326 5  1015.8   655.6   1394 4   697.2   697.2   697 2   697 2   697 2   697 2   697 2   697 2   697 2   697 2   697 2   697 2   697.2
Ag-c.clt,rsl Rassarch.       190 3   543 3    614.1   792.5   598 0   161.8    422.5   211.3   211 3   211 3   211 3   211 3   211 3   211 3   211 3   211 3   211 3   211 3   211 3   211 3
Input S.npTy                     -   108 3    100.2   339 4   547.1   370 0    658.1   329 0   329 0   329 0   329 0   329 0   329 0   329 0   329 0   329 0   329 0   3290o   329 0   3290
storagq                      8772  13092    465 2   500.2   203 8   598.2   1620 4            -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Road.                        234 6  2434 7   6563.5  2456.1   167 0   420.0  10149.7   448.5   448.5   448.5   448 5   448 5   448 5   448 5   448 5   448 5   448 5   4.48 5   4.4 5   448 5
Ads.-strat.o                  95 9   802 4    287 2   S22 7   496.8  513 0   2404.9           -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Fara.ers/I.vast  Coats       555 2   882.1   1279 8  1558 8  1200 4   753.2    663.6   375.5   121.8    52.5    45 1          4.0      1 (I      -        -       -        -       -        -       -
"Farsar/Prod  Costs          250 6   625 6   1059 0  1697 9  2071 3  2404.1   2658 3  2753.1  2678.9  2627.3  2825 7  2794.9  2612 S  2724 8  2749 6  2769 2  2792 9  2801 4  2503 4  2804 1
Total Costs                 3069 27921 4  11894 4  9261 5  6379 65908 8  19971 84814 5  448667  4365.7  4556 74484 64299 4  44106  4435 6  4455 2  44789(  4487 4  4489 4  4490 1
Total Nat Sa-.a,ta
Total Nat Banaf;ta        -2936.6 -7143 6 -10201 6 -5063.0   115.7  2061.3 -10856 7  4801 2  4944 5  5764.9  5381.6  3352 0  4285.9  5294 7  5.598 9  5793 3  6023 3  6062 1 6113 1 6121 2 
IanlRats. of Ratur- of Nat St,.as-
7 321
SWITCHING VALUES AT 121
STREAM            APPRAISAL      SVITCHIIN      PERCSNTACE
VALUE          VALUE          CHANCE
e1             4 000006.00    6.000006.00           35 643
CI              320.904.00    -1 0000E.00        4.950.143
C2            7.032,350 00    -6.0000E.00          -223.691                                                                                                                                    Z
C3            2.770.140.00    -1.0000E.00          -573 451                                                                                                                                    X
C4            2.124.890.00    -1 0000E.00          -747.581                                                                                                                                    _
CS            3,627,590 00    -1 0000E.00          437 901
CS              1.00000E.00    -1.0000E.00         -108 921
CT            2,69i.5SW 00    -1 0000E.00          -549 371
Cs            8.320,130 00    -7 0000E.00          -190 931
co            4,689,780 00    -1 0000E.00          -338 721
CIO             1 00000E.00    -1 O0006.00         -112 651
TOTAL COSTS    6 O00006.00    4 000006.00           -26 283
Net P,easant Valus at OICC 121 a -15.885.200
Intar-al Rats oF Rat.-n . -0 51
Co.pon Eq-vlaeat Rats of Raturn . 7 91



- 38 -
Annex 8
ORAZI1
MA'O GROSSO RLRAL DEVELOPM0OT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
C'oPP-nc   Patto-n at Apo.a   and Actvsl
(HO )
A1 fRa,ana     A2 R _cco    Bl Cm".e    B2 Cotton    C1 Coff    C2 R,bbo,   ° LJ,*C  jt5                      F Mo.ico
p             (15 h)         (15 ha)      (15 ha)        (15 ha)     Z(s *)        (7            (50k.)       (13.5  a)  h
APR 1/ f"SI '/  APAR   PCR    APR   PCR    APR   PCR    APR   PCR   APR   POR    APR   PCR    APR   PCR    APR -er
t       -     .       -     -       -    3 0    1 0   37 7         _   _     _  _ _
2 5    2 5      3 5   3 S    2 7   30    2 7   3 0    6 0   6.0   6 0   6 0    5 0   5 0    7 5   5 0    0 5  0 5
1.5    2 1       -    0.5      -    03      -    0 3    0 5   0.0   0.5   0 0    0 5   0.5         -     -       -    -
~ausna,o     0 5    01       0 5   01    01   00 0        1 00    0.5   0 0   0.5   0.0    0.5   0             -     -       -    -
2 0    2 0      15   2 0    15   19    15   1 9    4 0   4 0   4 0   4.0    3.0   3 0    3 0   3 0    0.5  1 0
3 0    3 0      2 5   2 5    1 0   2 0    1.0   1.0    2.0   2 5   2 0   2.0    1 0   1.0    6 0   5 0    1 0  0 s5
5    00          -     -      15   00    1 5   00        -     -      -     -       -     -       -     -      -
a ^   -  -      -     -       -     -      -      -     1.0   0 0   1.0   0.0    1.5   0 0    2.0   0.0        -    -
*oo (no,)   -      -       -      -     3 0   1.5    3 0   0 0   (40) (1.0)   -         -       -     -       -     -     4.0  1.0
-fne( o d)            -        -     -       -     -      -      -     6.0   50    -       -       -     -       _        _      _
. X r o   -  -  220   5 0                                                -  -  -  -  -  0  400  -  -  -  -     -    -
_ 1220 0   -LQ   55o0  _ _
110    97    10 0  13 6    9 8         7    98   92   25 0  22 2  14 0  52 0   23 5  2            75     68 0    6_   3.0
>i4 2/
aty (%)  73        65      67    91      65    58      15    61      50    44    19    69      47    59      54    50      -    -
; t -.t.d
,  fp.8o    750    652         250    30  2.500   228          2, 130  2,000   523    -     46  2,000 2,212    500   324  2,000  352
AOR   E.t-mat.d at aPorasal
PCR   E-ot..at.d at PCR
.f '    Conedero boan.o ahd 501 cotton  n rotation afta, rice and corn.



3(4 
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL PRICES (ANNUAL)
(In USS)
Crop Year
Unit              1 to 20
Outputs
Banana                                ton                    30
Rice                                  ton                   110
Corn                                  ton                    70
Cassava                               ton                    1B
Cotton                                ton                   2S0
Rubber                                ton                   700
Beans                                 ton                   400
Coffee                                ton                   300
Coffee                                ton                   160
Beef                                  kg                      1
Milk                                  it                   0.14
Inputs
Rthe improved                         kg                   0.42
Rice grain                            kg                   0.27
Corn improved                         kg                    0.3
Corn grain                            kg                   0.16
Corn for planting                     C/u                  0.03
Beans improved                        kg                    0.9
Beans grain                           kg                   0.78
Coffee seedlings                      C/u                  0.12
Cotton improved                       kg                   0.22
Cotton farmer                         kg                   0.09
Rubber seedlings                      c/u                   0.5
Pasture/seeds                         kg                   1.92
Tractor rental                        hour                10.23
Animal rental                         hour                  4.4
Thresher                              sack                 0.26
Disking                               hour                10.23
Seeding                               ha                  16.34
Urea                                  kg                   0.34
Simple superphosphate                 kg                   0.22
Potassium chloride                    kg                   0.32
20-6-20                               kg                    0.3
Furadan                               it                  19.26
Mirex (ant bait)                      kg                   0.81
Dipterex                              It                      7
Aldrin                                kg                     20
Folidol                               it                   9.96
Malathion                             It                  12.18
Thiodnn                               It                   7.64
Copper Oxichlorate                    kg                   4.42
Dithane                               kg                   5.71
Insecticide for plants                kg                  11.08
Fertilizer N-P-Kkg                    kg                   0.26
Sacks                                 C/u                  0.46
Backpack sprayers                     set                86.32
Horse for plowing & carting           unit                  209
Plowing disk                          unit                68.04
Trap and harness                      unit                40.39
Motorized sprayer                     unit                 82.3
Harvesting equipment                  unit                  241
Minerals & vaccines                   unit                    1
Fencing                               mt                   0.48
Corral and shed                       m2                   6.88
Labor
Hand-labor                            m/d                  2.72



- 40 -
Annex 10
BRAZIL
HATO CROSSO RkSRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RICE/MANUAA  CROP MODEL
YIELDS AND INPUTS
crop year
E-'st.ng Technology                  No. Technology                      Incremental
U-t         1       2        3       45 to 20         12 to 20         1        2       3        45 to 20
-=== -==S===: ======= =======- ...= .=   ....==  ....... ......= -'====-  -= =       ...=O=         --,9=  C===
Y eld                       ton     1 45      1 4    1 35      1 3    1 25      1 5    1 55    0 05    0.15       0 2    0 25      0 3
oerat . -g
Inputs
R.e Cro .n             kg         50      60       50      50       50       45      45       -S      -5       -5      -5       -5
RceC Imroved          kg          -        -       -        -       -        9       9        9       9        q       9        9
Furedan                it        0 1     0 1      0.1     0 1      0.1     0.3      0.3     0.2      0.2      0.2     0 2      0.2
Thresher               sck        21      21       21      21       21       24      24        a       5        3       3        3
Sacks                  c/u        10       10      10       10      10       12      12        2       2        2       2        2
Labor
Hlnd-labor             m/d        32      32       32      32       32      S4       S4        2       2        2       2        2
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RUJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RICE/MANUAL CROP MODEL
YIELDS ANDC INPUTS
crop year
Existing Technology         Now Technology              Incremental
Unit        1       2  3 to 4 5 to 20         12 to 20         1       2  3 to 4 5 to 20
-_-0 000=0=0 00=00 = 0=000. =0  =  l=00000000   =00= =                     00=-t-=S=000==
Yield                      ton      1.55      1.5    1.45      1.4     1.6    1.65    0.05    0.15       0.2    0.25
Operating
Inputs
Tractor Renting        hour      2.5     2.b      2.5     2.5      2.5      2.5       -        -       -        -
Rice Grain             kg.        50       SO      50       50      50      50        -        -       -        -
Rice Improvd           kg.      12.5    12.5    12.5    12.5        25      25    12.5    12.5    12.5    12.5
Furadan                It.       0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.3     0.3      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1
20-5-20                kg          -        -       -        -      25      25       25       25      25       25
Threshe,               sack       23      23       23      23       26      26        3        3       3        3
Animal Ranting         hour        1        1       1        1       1        1       -        -       -        -
Sacks                  c/u        11      11       11       11      13       13       2       2        2        2
Labor
Hand-labor             m/d        20      20       20      20       24      24        4       4        4        4



- 41 -                                                           Annex 11
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
CORN/MANUAL CROP MODEt
YIELDS AN INPUTS
(per ha )
crop yoer
Exting Technology                         Ne- Technology                   Incremental
UJot       1      2       3      4 S to 20          1      2       3 4 to 20       1       2      3       4 5 to 20
-=_ =-===== =--=  ;== --U --=   ===. =5== ...-=  e=c=  -s== .... ...  ....= -  -== ..  ...==  ---== 
Yield                        ton    1 65   1 57   1.52   1.45        1.35    1.65    1.7   1.75        1.8       -   0 13   0 23   0.35   0 45
In-estment
Operating
Inputs
Co ngramn                kg.       15     15      15     15        15       15     15      15       15      -
Corn improed             kg.      1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5        1.5        6      6       6        6    4.5    4.5    4.5    4 5    4.5
Aldrin                   kg     0 03   0.03   0.03   0.03        0.03    0.05   0.05   0.05    0.05   0.02   0.02   0.02   0 02   0.02
Insecticide for plants kg.          -      -       -      -         -     0.5    0.5    0.5       0.5    0       0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5
Mirex (ant bat)          kg.      0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5        0 5        1       1      1        1    0.,    0.5    0.5    0 5    0 5
Sacks                    c/u       11     11      11     11        11       15     15      15       15      4       4      4       4       4
Thresher                 sack     22      22      22     22        22       30     30      s0      30       8       B      8       8      8
Labor
Human                    m/d      22      22      22     22        22       24     24      24      24       2       2      2       2       2
BWAZIL
MATO OROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CORN/SE1I-MECKANIZED MODEL
YIELDS AND INPUTS
(per ha.)
crop year
Existing
Technology         New Technology                   Increemntel
Un;t       1 to 20         1        2  3 to 20           1         2  3 to 20
sent   =er=sst= es-an   mamas-  sanes==a  =.====== e=as==ss e =-as-n5
Yield                                ton          1.65     1.65      1.75       1.9          -      0.1      0.25
Ope,ating
Inputs
Tractor renting                hour           2.5       2.5       2.5      2.5           -        -         -
Corn grain                      kg.             18       18        18        18          -        -         -
Corn improved                   kg.           7.2      12.6      12.6      12.6       5 4       5.4       5.4
Aldrin                          kg.          0.05      0.05      0.05     0.05           -        -         -
Insecticide for plants          kg              -      0.05     0.05      0.05        0.5       0.5       0.5
Mire. (ant bait)                kg.             1         1         1         1          -        -         -
Urea                            kg.             -        15        15        15        15        15        iF
Sacks                           c/u            13        15        15        15         2         2         2
Animal renting                 hour           0.5         1         1         1       0.5       0.5       0.5
Thresher                       sack            27        S1        31       31          4         4         4
Labor
Manual Labor                    m/d            18        14        14        14        -4        -4        -4
_-- -- ------------------ ------------------------------------------ ------- __  __  __  __  __  __  __  __  __  __  __  _       _--_--_       _--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_-



- 42 -
Annex 12
8114? It 
HATO cossrJ RURAI. DEVELO3M[INT PROJCly
CA5SAVA CROP MODE.
YlflODS AND INPUTS
(per ha)
crop year
E-aetog          New
Technology Technology Incr-ne tel
Unt         I to 20      1 to 20       1 to 20
tor.             13           13             -
YVeld
OperatnOg
Labor
Lond preparat.on                           mld            23           23
Seed preparat.oo and plent-o               m/d             7             7
Weed -0                                     m/d           20           20
Hareeatng                                  m/d            18            1s
BRAZIL
MATO CROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BEANS CROP MODEL
YIELDS AND INPUTS
(per ha)
crop year
Enioting Technology                New Technology                   Incremental
Unit       1 TO 2           3          4  5 TO 20       1 TO 3  3 TO 20        1 TO 2           3          4  S TO 20
ton         0.48       0.47      0.46        0.45        0.48        0.5            -      0.03       0.04       0.05
Yield
Operating
Inputo
Boans grain                            kg.         33         33         33         33          37         37           4          4          4          4
Boane improved                         kg.         16         16         16         16          19         19           3          3          3          3
Aldrin                                 kg.      0.05       0.05       O.CS       0.05         0.1        0.1        0.05       0.05       0.05       0.05
Fol idol                               It.       0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1         0.5        0.5         0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4
Miree  (Ant Bait)                      kg.          1          1          1          1         1.5        1.5         0.5        0.5        0.5       0.8
Sacks                                  c/u          4          4          4          4           5          5           1          1          1          1
Labor
Land preparation  and others           m/d         22         22         22         22          23         23           1          1          1          1
---------------------------------------------  _      _      _      _      _      _      _      .------------------  _      _       _,.  ---_--_--_      _--_      _--_--_--_-  _--_--_--_--_--_--_      _--_--_      _--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_--_-



BRAZIL
MATO CROSS0 RURAL OEVfIOPMEBdT PROJECT
COFIEE/NEW ME51MG CROP MODEL
YIELDS AND INPAUTS
F..atn.g
T-eK-Iogy                                    War Y-.cbnto                                                            I-crr-ata I
Lb-tlIto O0         1       2       3        4       5       67 to68          91 lt. 20        1       2        3       4        5       6  ?to60 Ito 20
Y,o14                      ton         -             03      0 6      12      13       1 3     1.3     14       15        -     03       0 6      1 2     1 3      1 3     13      24       1 5
Coffa. a.adi-oga       c/               2400-                       - -  -      -        -       -                 2400        -       -        --                                -
s;-pI. auaarpkoaobata kg           -      25       -       -                        -        -       -        -      25        -       -        -       -                         -
M.abor         .t
Land cl.r/-offaa  a/d                     23       -       -        -               -        -       -        -      23        -       -        -       -                .       -        -
Coffac panto.g         a/A                41       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -      41        -                -       --                        -
L.-g                   ./d                 2       -       -                -        -       -       -        -       2        -       -        -       -                -
Pthng  ~ ~   ~   .a/         -      20        -       -       -        -       -                -       -      20        -       -        -       -        -                -
DOat-b  A pI.nt-og   a/A                          is 1      -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -       is       -        -       -                         -
Sea-s-Ung
Coppar O-h-tr.a    kg                                                                                                          I                                                   
FoI,Aol                It          -     02      0 5     u        0 5     056     0 5      0 5     0 5      0 5     0.2      0 5     0 5     0 5      0 5     0 5      0 5     0 5      OS
20-5-20                kg                  -      50      so       so      50       so      50      so       so       -       10      so       so      50       so      50       50      so
Labor                  ./d                        10      55       66      74      64       82      63       63       -       10      55       66      74      84       62      83       83
MATO CROSS0 RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COFFEE/OLD PLAMfTATION CROP POELS
YIELDS AND INpeiS
crop Ya.r
E.uat,-g Tackholoy                                                                                          Naa  .an     209
U-S lto1t3          4       5       6        7       a       9       10      11       12      13 14 to20        1       2  3 to 4        5        6  7to6          5      10       II       12 13 to20
Y-.Id                      to        1       1        1 4     1 2       1     0.6      0 6       -        -    103       1 1     1I      1 6      1 6    1565      1 5     14       1 3                       1 2     14       1 5
Cogarfl.-hlo-ata    kg             -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -       -                -       -        1       1        1       1        1       1
Fo.hdoI                It       0 2      02      02      0 2      02      02       0 2     02      02       02      02       02      0 2      0 2     0 5     0 5      0 5     0 5      0         5      0         5
20-5-20                kg          -       -       -        - -         -        -       -            -           -        -         100      100     100      100     1o  100 20020                     100,    100      100
Labor
Labor                  a/A        82      82      8l      so       77      75       72      69       10      10      76       77      62       66      as       66      83       82      12       14      '         8      6



- 44 -
Annex 14
BRAZIL
MATO GROSSO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COTTON CROP MODEL
YIELDS AND INPUTS
(per he.)
crop year
Existing
Technology         New Technology                  Incremental
Unit      1 to 20         1         2  3 to 20           1        2  3 to 20
Yield                               ton             1         1       1.1      1.3          -       0.1      0.3
Operating
Inputs
Land Preparation               hour             4        4         4         4                   -         -
Cotton farmer                   kg.            30       30        30        30          -        -         -
Cotton improved                 kg.            15        24       24        24          9        9         9
Aldrin                          kg.             -      0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2
Folidol                         it.           1.2         2        2         2       0.8       0.8       0.8
Mirex (ant bait)                kg.             1         2        2         2          1        1         1
20-6-20                         kg.             -        25       26        26         26       26        25
Sacks                           c/u            10        13       13        13          a        a         3
Animal renting                 hour             3         3        3         3          -        -         -
Labor
Hand-labor                      m/d            38       42        42        42          4        4         4



KATO aS RO URAL  iEVBiWV*W PROJECT
RteBER CROP MODEL
YiElDS AND INPJTrS
(per ha.)
Eia-ting
Technology                                                   Now Technology
unit    lto 20          1        2         a        4         t        a         I        8         9       10        11 12 to 20
s         -e-   -_._=a _.                                                                        . _-  o .- e..w - _s , e   .s
Yield                        ton          -         -        -             -                       -     0.15       0.3     0.42       0.9     1.06       1.2
Input.
Rubbr se4lings           c/u          -       800        -                  -                           -         -         -        -         -        -
Labor
Land cl*erigg           m                      23        -         -
Planting                 mid                   11        -        -                  -         -        -         -        -         ---
Operating
Inputs
seane improved           kg.          -     34.2    2t.6          19     11.4         -        -        -         -         -        -         -        -
Chemicals. funicidaa   he.            -         a        8         t        4         4        4        4         2        2         2        2         2
Defoliants   others      kg.                  0.6        1       1.8      1.8       1.0      1.0      2.1       28       32        3.2      3.2       32
Fertilizer N-P-K         kg.          -       230      2S0      235       265       170      Ira        -         -         -        -        -         -
Sac                       /u9                                               3         -        -        -         -         -        -
Labor
Labor                    m/d          -     27.6      22.7     20.7      24.6        15       13       23        26       31        36       41        44
WAZIL
MrTO GRSSO RMAL OSY.L1PeWr PRO.EcT
t          ~~~YS.lDS M° 1I4tis
(per ha.)
crop year
Eaieting Technology                                    Has Technology                                              Increental
unit          1         2        3         4 5 to 20          1        2        3         4  5 to 20         1         2        3         4  5 to 20
Yield                        ton          S       7.6      7.6       J.4        7         8      0.2      6.2       8.4      8.6         -      0.3       0.6         I      1 6
Investment
Labor
Land clo ring/bananc    e/d           -         -        -        -         -       23         -         -        -         -       23         -        -
BSnana plating           aid          -         -        -        -         -        17        -        -         -         -       1?
Operatine
Inputs
Cor_ for planting        c/u        800      600       S00      600       600       00        00      800       5        500 -S0
20-5-20                                    -        -         -        -            20        20       20        20       20        20       20        20        20       20
Labor
Insect;cidcontrol        e/d          I         1        1         1        1        2         2        2         2        2         1         1        1         1        1
Fortilizer application  a1d           -         -        -         -        -      0.5       0.5      0.6       0.5      0 S       0 5      0.8       0.5      0 5       0 5
Weeding                  e/d         12        20       20       20        20        12       24       24        24       24         -        4         4         4        4
Harvesting               m/d         11        14       14        14       14        11       16       s6        le        18        -        2         2         2        2
x



NATO  tOSSO  LMAL OEVELOPtMNT PROJECT
PASTURE/ MO0. 0. bODEL
YIELDS AND ItNUTS
crop year
Existing
T*chnoloey                      How Technology                                                                Incr--.nti
unit    I to 20         1        2         a        4        5         I  7 to 20         1         2        3        4         5        6  7 to 20
ewe ........  __ _e  .n... . _               .__e         -        -         -  ....m.                         c - --   .==..n           .
Main Production
Beef                       kg.       30 8     23S6      248      256       35.4     36 6        38       38      -7.2        -6     -5.2      4 6       S 8      7 2       7 2
milk                       It.      116O.6    l1.8    133.2    140.4    1t6.?    168.4         171      171         -     14.4      21.6     32.9      44 6     52.2      52 2
Inveat_nt
Labor
Establishent            m/d           -        -         -     1.15         1     0.69      0.6         -         -        -      1.15        1     0 69       0 a 6
Operating
Inputs
WIneraig and Vaccines  unit        0.36     0.76      1.06     1.14       1.2     1."6      1.29     1.29     0.38      0.68      0 76     0.82      0 s8     0 91     0 91
Labor
Hand-labor              */d         1.5      1.5       15        1 5      1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5         -        -         -        - S 
Haintenance             m/d           2        S         4        4         4        4         4        4         1        2         2        2         2        2         2
68AflL
NATO GROSSO RUAL LEVBDPMET PROJECT
PASIW  MO0. E. MOEL
YlEtDS   D INPUT 0S
crop your
Esisting
Technoleogy                     N   Technology                                              Incrtental
unit    I to 20         1        2         3        4         6  t to 20         1        2         3        4         56   to 20
-    3a.m..   -ueam              .asntS.    al                         w . .         in... . ....  .....    n.is
Main Production
goof                      kg.        30.6     23.6      24.0     25.6      35.4     36.6        38     -7.2        -6     -5.2       4.6      5.6       7 2
I'lt                       it.      116.6    116.68   13.2    140.4    151.7    163.4          171        -      14.4     21.6      32.9     44.6      52.2
Investment
Labor
Estubli&oh_nt           */d           -     0.73      0.73     0.73      0.73     0.73         -     0.73     0.73      0.73      0.73     0.73         -
Operating
Inputs
inersal. and Vaccine.  unit        0.33     0.76      1.06     1.14       1.2     1.26      1.29     0.38     0. 6      0.76      0.82     0. 88    0.91
Labor
"and-labor              m/d         1.5       1.5      1.5      1.S       1.5      I5        1.5        -         -        -         -        -         -                                          >
rKnintenenc*            ./d           2         S        4         4        4        4         4         1        2        2         2        2         2
x



