Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3221-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECOND NORTHWEST REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(STATE OF MATO GROSSO)
February 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980              February 11, 1982
Currency Unit           Cruzeiro (Cr$)               Cr$
US$1            =       Cr$53.25                     Cr$134.10
Cr$1            =      US$0.14                       US$0.0075
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
POLONOROESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1   Cr$88.10)
corresponds to the cruzeiro June 10, 1981 exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CASEMAT        Companhia de Armazens e Silos do Estado de Mato Grosso
(State Warehouse and Silo Company)
CODEAGRI       Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola do Estado de Mato
Grosso
(State Agricultural Development Company)
CODEMAT        Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Mato Grosso
(State Development Company)
DERMAT         Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Mato Grosso
(State Highway Department)
EMATER-MT      Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural do Mato
Grosso
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA        Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilan Agricultural Research Company)
EMPA-MT        Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Estado de Mato Grosso
(State Agricultural Research Company)
FUNAI           Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
GPC            Gabinete de Planejamento e Coordenacao do Governo do Estado
(State Cabinet of Planning and Coordination)
IBDF           Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Development Institute)
INCRA          Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
POLONOROESTE   Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Brazil's Northwest Region Integrated Development Program)
SANEMAT        Companhia de Saneamento do Estado de Mato Grosso
(State Sanitation Company)
SEC            Secretaria de Educacao e Cultura
(State Secretariat for Education and Culture)
SEMA           Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente
(National Secretariat for the Environment)
SES            Secretaria de Saude
(State Secretariat of Health)
SUDECO         Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Regiao Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Center-West)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHWEST REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(State of Mato Grosso)
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:         US$26.4 million equivalent, including front-end fee.
Terms:          Interest at 11.6% per annum.  Repayment in 15 years,
including 3 years of grace.
Project
Description:  The loan would help finance a second phase of the Bank's
proposed participation in an integrated development program
for northwest Brazil (POLONOROESTE program). This program
is designed to help bring order to the spontaneous settle-
ment of a region of about 410,000 km2 covering the state of
Rondonia and 14 municipalities in the central and western
part of the state of Mato Grosso. The program aims at
increasing the productivity, income, and social welfare of
the region's present and future population, and is expected
to benefit directly some 120,000 small-scale farm families.
At the core of the program is the paving of the heavily
traveled and badly deteriorated Cuiaba-Porto Velho road, and
the investments required to achieve the balanced socio-
economic development of the road's area of influence and to
protect the region's Amerindian population and natural
environment.
The proposed Mato Grosso rural development project consists
of the following main components: (a) the strengthening
and expansion of agro-ecological zoning, rural extension,
agricultural research and input supply; (b) the improvement
of physical infrastructure, including consolidation and
expansion of crop storage and drying capacity, and the
improvement of municipal roads and establishment of a road
maintenance capability; (c) the strengthening and expansion
of education and health facilities and services, and
construction of community centers and rural water supply
systems; and (d) establishment of project management and
coordination, including monitoring and on-going evaluation.
Additional support activities such as agricultural credit,
minimum price purchase mechanisms, and financing for some
incremental recurrent costs not financed under the project
would be provided by Government. Provisions included under
the Bank-financed first phase of the POLONOROESTE program
would support a series of parallel activities in Mato Grosso
crucial to attaining the objectives of the proposed
second-phase project, such as land tenure regularization and
strengthening of IBDF's operations. The infrastructure and



- ii -
social services provided under the project should benefit
most of the 18,700 families expected to be living in the
subproject area by 1986. Agricultural services would be
more directly oriented to some 10,000 of the less developed
small-scale farm families within that area. The bulk of the
project is being implemented over a five-year period
starting mid-1981.
Risks:          The project area is located in an environmentally delicate
agricultural frontier, but has been settled for 10 to 20
years, in contrast to the Rondonia section of the Northwest
Program area rhich is still being occupied.  The challenge
in this project, as in other agricultural facets of the
POLONOROESTE program, is to establish and maintain a fairly
intensive productive base, to stabilize the existing small
farmer migrant population within the region, and to help
prevent irreversible harm to the ecology. This project's
zoning, research and extension activities, combined with the
broader environmental protection measures included in the
first phase of the POLONOROESTE Program, should help to
reduce these risks substantially. The project management,
monitoring and decision processes have been designed to help
mitigate the risk of inadequate interagency coordination. In
general, however, while the risks associated with this
project (or risks associated with the adequacy of execution
of the measures included under the overall POLONOROESTE
program) cannot be totally avoided, it is believed that the
measures incorporated in the first and the second phases of
the northwest region development program would result in a
much lower level of risk than would exist in the absence of
the POLONOROESTE program, and that the potential of the area
is such that these controlled risks are worth facing.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:                                     US$ Thousands
A.   Agricultural Services              Local    Foreign    Total
1.  Agroecological Zoning         1,152        128      1,280
2.  Rural Extension               9,663      1,318    10,981
3.  Adaptive Research             3,964        440      4,404
4.  Input Supply                    385         68        453
Sub-Total                    15,164      1,954    17,118
B. Production Infrastructure
1.  Drying and Storage            5,422      1,356      6,778
2.  Municipal Roads               7,085      3,815    10,900
Sub-Total                    12,507      5,171    17,678
C. Social Development
1.  Education                    10,350      1,827    12,177
2.  Rural Water Supply            1,129        377      1,506
3.  Health and Sanitation         2,599        459      3,058
4.  Community Organizations         340         60        400
Sub-Total                    14,418      2,723    17,141
D.  Project Management                  2,251        250     2,501
E. Total Project
Baseline Costs               44,340    10,098    54,438
Physical Contingencies        4,846      1,104      5,950
Price Contingencies          13,046      2,971    16,017
F.  TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                62,232 1/ 14,173    76,405 1/
G.  Front End Fee on Loan                -           400       400
H.  Total Financing Required           62,232    14,573    76,805
1/ Including about US$1.5 million of local taxes.



--iv-
Financing Plan:                                    --- US$ Millions ---------
Local    Foreign    Total
Government                                 50.4        -         50.4
IBRD                                       11.8       14.6       26.4
TOTAL                                 62.2       14.6      76.8
Estimated                            -------------US$ Millions--------------
Disbursements:    Bank-FY          FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual           0.9 1/ 5.0    5.9    6.1    5.7    2.8
Cumulative       0.9    5.9   11.8   17.9   23.6   26.4
Rate of Return:  24% for the directly productive components of the project,
covering 68% of estimated total project costs.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3635a-BR of February 23, 1982.
1/   Includes front-end fee of US$0.4 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A SECOND NORTHWEST REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(STATE OF MATO GROSSO)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Repubic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$26.4
million, including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a rural
development project in the State of Mato Grosso. This project would be the
second phase of Bank participation in Brazil's Northwest Region Integrated
Development Program. The proposed loan would have a term of 15 years
including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a new country
economic memorandum is scheduled for the second half of FY82. Country data
are provided in Annex I.
3.        The present government, headed by President Joao Baptista de
Oliveira Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term.
Much of its attention has had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and
a difficult balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of
the government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced
dependence on imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured
exports, and increasing domestic savings. Success on these fronts is
crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments problems,
as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards and better
income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        In the 13 years ending in 1980, Brazil enjoyed a high level of
economic growth, with GDP and income per capita rising at average real
rates of about 9% and 6X per annum, respectively. During the 1967-73
period, growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
1/   Parts II, III and IV of the report are reproduced without substantial
changes from the corresponding parts of the President's Report on the
Northwest Region Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection
Project (Report No. P-3137a-BR, dated October 30, 1981).



-2-
external resource balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and
there also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation.
However, given the heavy dependence of Brazil's industry and transport
system on petroleum, over 80% of which was imported, the quadrupling of oil
prices at the end of 1973 resulted in a sharp deterioration in the nation's
terms of trade. Excess aggregate demand and a succession of bad harvests,
along with increased energy costs, resulted in increasing balance-of-
payments difficulties and the reacceleration of inflation.
5.        Coping with these constraints, while responding to continuing
pressures to maintain high growth rates of output and employment and simul-
taneously establishing the basis for long-term structural adjustment, has
been the central problem of Brazilian economic management during the past
eight years. At the same time that considerable success was achieved in
maintaining rapid growth, an aggressive and innovative effort was launched
to reduce energy consumption andI substitute domestic energy resources for
imported petroleum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were
contained through the continued rapid expansion of exports (particularly of
manufactures), increased import barriers, accelerated import substitution,
and heavy external borrowing, inicluding large additions to international
reserves. However, the rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of
imports, and intensification of domestic inflationary pressures increased
the economy's vulnerability to fEurther external shock, and that
vulnerability was severely tested by the additional sharp increases in
petroleum prices and international interest rates that occurred in 1979 and
1980.
6.        A number of important measures were taken in 1979 and 1980 to
improve control over public sector spending and monetary expansion. These
included increased central authcwrity over the investments and borrowings of
the public enterprises, the phasing-out of most tax earmarkings, and the
reduction of major consumer and producer subsidies. Nevertheless,
aggregate demand continued to grow strongly, placing severe pressure on
prices and the balance of payments. In 1980, inflation, as measured by the
General Price Index, accelerated to 110% (from 41% in 1978), and, despite a
32% growth of merchandise exports and significant reduction in the volume
of petroleum imports, the current account deficit grew to almost US$13
billion (compared to $6 billion in 1978).  At the same time, Brazil's
international reserves fell from US$11.9 billion to $6.9 billion, and terms
tightened on the nation's heavy foreign borrowings.
7.        In response to the deteriorating situation, and strengthened by
the institutional reforms of the previous two years, severe constraints
were imposed on aggregate demand in 1981, and efforts to correct the trade
balance were increased. The public sector deficit and the monetary
aggregates were sharply reduced in real terms. In an effort to encourage
private savings and maintain adequate export incentives, monetary
correction and exchange rate adjustments, which were-allowed to lag in
1980, were brought back into line with domestic inflation. Banks were
freed from interest rate controls on their commercial lending, and rates
were also increased on official credits. Some tax incentives to exports,
which had been eliminated in the wake of a large devaluation of the
cruzeiro at the end of 1979, were restored, while the foreign exchange
transactions tax on imports was raised from 15% to 25%.



- 3 -
8.        As a consequence of these measures, the economy entered into
recession in 1981. Despite an estimated 8% growth of agricultural output,
GDP declined around 4%. The industrial sector was particularly hard hit by
high interest rates and cutbacks in public sector expenditures, and
unemployment has increased in the major industrial centers. Manufactured
exports, however, have continued to grow rapidly, 32.6% in nominal terms,
and a merchandise trade surplus of some US$1.2 billion was achieved in
contrast to deficits of $2.8 billion in both 1979 and 1980. The 1981
surplus also reflected a zero nominal growth of imports, including the
further reduction of real petroleum imports. Despite sharply higher
interest payments abroad, the current account deficit was cut by some US$2
billion. Inflation for the year was reduced to 95% with a steadily
declining trend evident through the second half of the year. No problems
were experienced in obtaining the US$11.5 billion in net external financing
required in 1981. Contrasting with 1979 and 1980 foreign exchange reserves
increased by US$600 million in 1981. Total M&LT external debt outstanding
at year-end was about US$61.4 billion.
Poverty Programs
9.        Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to general efforts to maintain the growth of
employment and prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the
northeast region have been continued notwithstanding the present tight
fiscal and monetary restraints. Coverage of the social security program
has been expanded and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of
the urban population is now covered by the social security health care
system, and a cash transfer program has been established for the rural
elderly poor. Almost two million loans have been made for housing by the
National Housing Bank (BNH) since 1964. Improvement and extension of the
primary health services to rural areas is a government priority in the
health sector. A program for grassroots health and sanitation actions for
northeast Brazil was initiated in 1976. Plans are underway for expanding
this program into a comprehensive national primary health care program. A
sites and services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban
poor more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to
finance home improvement and building materials. High priority has also
been given to the extension and improvement of urban water supply.
Consequently, some six million households comprising about 30 million
people have been connected to public water supply systems since 1971,
increasing the proportion of urban dwellers who receive such services to
75%. Efforts have also been made to attack the poverty-related problems of
adult illiteracy and malnutrition.2/
Future Prospects
10.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on
the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated, and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under
21   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR,
dated July 13, 1979).



-4-
risk contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil company.  Investments have
also been undertaken to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric
potential, to initiate nuclear power production, to substitute alcohol for
gasoline, to expand domestic coal production, and to exploit Brazil's large
shale oil deposits. Efforts are! also being made to induce energy
conservation. While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on
imported energy remains a formidable problem. With oil imports
constituting an estimated US$10.3 billion (nearly 44% of Brazil's
merchandise imports) in 1981, as compared to US$700 million (11% of
imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and balance-of-payments
viability will continue to be a principal preoccupation of economic
decision-makers.
11.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Accelerated
devaluations of the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements,
the scheduled phasing-out of tax subsidies to export, and the gradual
freeing of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments may continue to be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years, and foreign lenders,
including the Bank, should be prepared to finance a significant proportion
of project costs including, when, necessary, a part of local costs.
Furthermore, priority attention has to continue to be given to the
development of domestic energy sources, agriculture and stimulation of
domestic savings.
12.       Growth is expected to recover to about 4% in 1982 and to average
about 5% per annum in 1983-85, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in
1973-80. Such a growth rate should be compatible with a stable current
account deficit through 1983, falling thereafter. The debt service ratio
would decline slowly. These projections are highly sensitive, however, to
petroleum prices, international interest rates, and the rate of growth of
manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high
share of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy highly vulnerable to
external events, and this situation may be expected to persist for several
years more.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       With the forecast trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to become positive in 1982. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1982-85 period,
even if international interest rates should decline. Thus large service
account deficits will contribute to continuing current account deficits on
the order of US$10-12 billion through 1983. As a proportion of GDP, the
current account deficit is projected to fall steadily from its peak of 5.4%
in 1980. This projection assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace
through 1985, reflecting restrained demand, continued import substitution,
and a strengthening of the overall domestic savings effort.
14.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to
be around US$11-12 billion in 1981 and 1982, and to decline progressively
thereafter to about US$5 billion by 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be



about US$19 billion this year and remain in the US$18-20 billion range over
the five-year period, with 75-85% obtained as financial credits from
private lenders. Consequently, the net debt service ratio 3/ would
decline from about 67% in 1980 to about 43% in 1985.
15.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced the
nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was
initially eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national
creditworthiness, the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the
ample opportunities for efficient import substitution offered by the large
domestic market. Nevertheless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum
imports, the resurgence of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation
of external debt left the economy increasingly vulnerable to further
external shocks. The government recognizes the need for careful demand
management and for selectivity in its investment policies emphasizing
efficiency in export expansion, import substitution, employment creation,
and poverty alleviation.
16.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to
petroleum prices and. international interest rates will continue to make
projections subject to a wide margin of error. The present scenario also
depends heavily on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand manufac-
tured exports despite slower growth of the world economy, and on its
continued access to international capital. A major effort is underway to
reduce dependence on foreign petroleum, but significant results may not be
apparent for several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy
remains dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient. The task of econoaic
management will not be easy, but policymakers have demonstrated their
ability to adjust to changing circumstances, and recent policy measures
have greatly strengthened their management capacity. Thus, Brazil remains
creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the amounts
indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
17.       By September 30, 1981 the Bank had made 106 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$5,995.6 million (net of cancellations), of which 54 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77,
US$252 million in FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and
US$378 million in FY81. They are expected to increase further during the
3/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



-6-
next few years. Tne total undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1981 was
US$2,950.2 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as
of September 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY77, seven loans were
made totaling US$425 million; in FY78, nine loans totaling US$705 million;
in FY79, nine loans totaling US$675 million; in FY80, seven loans totaling
US$695 million were made. In FY81, eight loans totaling US$844 million
were approved. So far in FY82, three loans totalling US$320 million for
the first phase of Bank participation in the POLONOROESTE program have been
approved. Work is relatively advanced on an agricultural development proj-
ect in the state of Amazonas, a rural development project in the state of
Maranhao, a power distribution project, an urban development project in the
city of Recife, a large iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas,
and the third-phase project of the northwest region development program.
19.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1979 amounted to US$51 billion, and is estimated to
have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981. At the end of 1979, the Bank
held 3.6% of the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1979
was 2%. In 1981, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated
to have risen slightly to 4.2% while its share in total debt service re-
mained constant. These percentages are not expected to rise significantly
in the next five years.
20.       As of September 30, 1981, IFC commitments to Brazil totaled
US$774.5 million, of which US$519.6 million had been sold, repaid or can-
celled. Of the balance of US$254.9 million, US$193.8 million represent
loans and US$61.1 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of
September 30, 1981 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
21.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the government to identify and develop
projects that will increase t:he productivity and incomes of the lowest
income segments of the populatiorn, to broaden the economic opportunities
open to those groups, and to improve their living conditions. Consistent
with this objective, the proposed project,complementing activities under
the recently approved agricultural development and environmental protection
project and the associated health and highway projects, would help improve
the productivity, incomes, and health and social welfare of the northwest
region's present and future populations. Previous loans for nutrition re-
search and development, primary education, vocational training, agricul-
tural research, agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower
Sao Francisco river basin, and integrated rural development were designed
to assist low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in the north-
east. Further projects to assist the rural poor are in preparation,
including several additional integrated rural development projects. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in



greater Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the south, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-
cost housing, and a loan for urban. development in medium-sized cities are
assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban population,
particularly of the urban poor.
22.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control within
the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure that they
are used economically through rational selection of investment projects.
This institution-building objective is particularly important in the
proposed project which seeks to build up the planning and administration
capabilities required to promote the orderly human occupation and develop-
ment of Brazil's fast-growing northwest frontier. The projects in the
northwest region development program, of which this is the second phase,
would help upgrade the Brazilian institutions charged with the protection
of the region's fragile ecosystem and would help the state of Mato Grosso
develop its capabilities for planning, implementing and coordinating rural
development, health and road activities. Loans for urban development,
electric power, railways, industrial finance, highways, agricultural
research and extension, rural development, water supply and sewerage, and
the recently approved loan for alcohol and biomass energy development also
have important institution-building objectives.
23.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development, a constraint that has become more critical since
the increase in petroleum prices in 1974, by supporting projects designed
to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute
domestic production for imports. As a result of the deterioration in
Brazil's terms of trade and balance of payments which took place at the
time of the 1974 energy crisis, this objective was placed in the forefront
of the government's economic policy. The proposed project would also
directly contribute to this objective by helping develop a region that has
a considerable potential for agricultural production. Lending for the
electric power sector supports this objective, since it is based primarily
on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the need for petroleum
imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical projects is assist-
ing Brazil to substitute large-scale efficient domestic production for
imports and thus aid its balance-of-payments position. The alcohol and
biomass energy development project directly addresses the need to restrict
growth of petroleum imports. Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the
transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facil-
itate the smooth and economical flow of exports. Support of the steel
expansion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a tradi-
tional import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to
the country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its
internal markets. A similar objective is being achieved through the
VALESUL aluminum project which will use Brazil's abundant hydroelectric
resources and ample bauxite reserves.
24.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is
to provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital
inflows that Brazil has needed and will continue to need for many years in



order to sustain satisfactory growth and achieve its employment creation
and regional development object:ives.  Continued active lending by the Bank
in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as an impor-
tant sign of confidence in Brazil and encourages others to continue
contributing to the country's development. In some sectors, especially in
electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain
additional resources in greater amounts and on more favorable terms from
bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions than may
otherwise have been provided. Eleven co-financing operations, for more
than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial
institutions and several others are in preparation, including about US$110
million in private co-financing for the CEEE Power Distribution Project
(Loan No. 1824-BR), US$50 million in private co-financing for the Second
Minas Gerais Rural Development Project (Loan No. 1877-BR), about US$65
million in private co-financing for the ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission
Project (Loan No. 1895-BR), ande US$250 million for the Alcohol and Biomass
Energy Development Project (Loan No. 1989-BR).
PART III - THE NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 4/
25.       General Presentation.  The northwest region of Brazil is offi-
cially defined as the area of influence of the 1,500 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho
road (BR-364). This area encom,passes all of the new state of Rondonia
and 14 municipalities located in the central and western parts of the state
of Mato Grosso. In total the nLorthwest region covers approximately 410,000
km2 -- about three quarters the size of France (IBRD Map No. 14865R2). The
region was practically uninhabited, except for scattered indian communities
and itinerant rubber-tappers an.d prospectors, until completion in the
mid-1960s of a 1,500 km earth road linking the two major cities of the
region, Cuiaba and Porto Velho, started a massive influx of migrants in
search of land and employment. The 1980 regional population was estimated
at 1,060,000, having grown at a rate of about 10.8% per annum over the last
decade (7.8% per annum in Mato Grosso and 15.8% per annum in Rondonia); it
is expected to continue to grow by about 10% per annum during the 1978-88
period. The average population. density is still less than three inhabi-
tants per km2 (the national average is 14 inhabitants per km2), mostly
concentrated in towns and settlements built along BR-364. One of the main
attractions of the northwest region and one of its distinctive character-
istics, shared by few other parts of the Amazon, is the relatively wide-
spread existence of climatic ccnditions and soils suitable for agricul-
ture. However, soils are quite heterogeneous and, as development in many
areas is recent, systematic research and evaluation will be needed. The
region is estimated to have som.e 29,000 km2 of good eutrophic podsols,
mainly in Rondonia. A further half of the remaining soils are estimated
4/   For a more detailed assessment of the northwest region development
potential and constraints and of the Northwest Region Development
Program see "The Integrated Development of Brazil's Northwest
Frontier" (Report Y-- 3042a-BR, dated December 23, 1980).



- 9 -
to be capable of sustaining agricultural practices and inputs.  In 1978,
about 1% of the region was planted in either annual or tree crops and about
80% remained in its natural state; natural and seeded pasture and forestry
operations accounted for the remainder.
26.       Constraints on the Region's Development.  The large and uncon-
trolled influx of migrants into the northwest region that has followed the
opening of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway has brought into prominence a
number of key areas of concern in the development of the regions One such
area of concern is the potential threat to the Amerindian groups located in
the region. They are estimated to number about 8,000 people distributed
among 22 different tribal groups, some of which have yet to be contacted.
There are an estimated 1,000 Amerindians living on five reserves totaling
some 610,000 ha in the area of the proposed project. Only one of these
five reserves has been officially demarcated. The National Indian Agency
(FUNAI) has only one understaffed indian post in the area. Measures are
underway for strengthening FUNAI's operations in the entire northwest
region, including the proposed project area (paragraph 35). The recent
swell of migration to the region has increased the transmission of
diseases, such as tuberculosis, measles and influenza, to which the
Anmerindians have little or no immunity, and has intensified pressures on
their lands. Squatters have, in some cases, invaded officially designated
Amerindian areas, although not in the area of the proposed project.
27.       Increased threats to the fragile and little-known northwest
region's natural environment from the rapid human occupation of the area
constitute another area of concern. To date, spontaneous migrants and
existing settlement schemes have, by and large, occupied areas of good
soils, and the pace of deforestation, though increasing, remains much lower
than commonly thought (less than 5% of the forest area had been cleared as
of 1980). However, if adequate policies and institutional capabilities are
not developed to help direct the increasing human occupation of the region,
there will be an increasing risk that occupation of poorer soils with
ill-adapted agricultural practices and uncontrolled deforestation could
result in leaching and erosion of the soil, and possibly changes in the
climatic and hydrological conditions. Finally, the failure of some past
attempts at settling small-scale farmers elsewhere in the Amazon region has
demonstrated the need to provide migrants with a range of productive and
social infrastructure and services in order to fix them productively and
permanently to the land and create a sense of community and security in
otherwise unstable and harsh frontier conditions.
28.       Program Formulation and Concept.  The orderly occupation and
development of the northwest region is currently of high priority to the
Brazilian government. The region is perceived as an important future
source of agricultural production for export and domestic markets, and as a
location where migrants from other parts of Brazil can be productively and
permanently settled. In August 1979, an interministerial working group was
established for defining a strategy for the harmonious development of the
region. The recommendations of this working group served as the basis for
a federal special program called the northwest region integrated
development program (POLONOROESTE program). The POLONOROESTE program,
established by a Presidential decree of May 27, 1981, is the latest of



10 -
several regional development programs currently underway in Brazil.
Execution of the program is coordinated by the Superintendency for
Development of Center West (SIJDECO).  At the core of the program is the
paving of the heavily traveled and badly deteriorated Cuiaba-Porto Velho
earth road, and the investments required to achieve the balanced
socio-economic development of the road's area of influence and to protect
the region's Amerindian population and natural environment.
29.       Program Components.  The POLONOROESTE program calls for the
execution of integrated measures in the following areas: (a) improvement
of the transport system through the paving of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho
highway and the improvement of the feeder road network (53% of estimated
program costs); (b) establishing new settlement schemes expected to accom-
modate new migrant families (24%); (c) consolidatIon of existing settlement
schemes in Rondonia and Mato Grosso (15%); (d) land tenure services to
provide settlers with definitive title to their land (1%); (e)
environmental protection including establishment of natural reserves,
institutional upgrading and eczological research (2%); (f) health activities
for the territory of Rondonia and health research (2%); (g) protection of
the Amerindian population (2%); and (h) program administration and coordin-
ation (1%). The program is expected to be implemented over a six-year
period. Bank participation in the program's financing is currently envi-
saged in three overlapping phases. The first and most extensive phase
includes the associated highway, agricultural development and environmental
protection, and health projects approved by the Executive Directors
December 3, 1981. The second phase would encompass the proposed rural
development project in Mato Grosso presented in this report. The third
phase would cover new planned settlement schemes in suitable areas of
Rondonia. Though this new settlement phase of the program was initially
expected to help place some 30,000 families on 3 million ha, availability
of accessible suitable lands, execution capacity constraints, and develop-
ment of appropriate production recommendations where cultivable soils of
relatively lower quality are to be used, will probably limit the number of
farmers and the total new area settled, or may also extend the execution
period for these new settlements.
30.       Measures for Protec-ting and Assisting the Program Area's
Amerindian Population. Measures envisaged under the POLONOROESTE program
for reinforcing the protection of the northwest region's Amerindian
population have already been initiated under the first-phase loans
(President's Report No. P-3137-BR) and would continue to be carried out
with funds entirely provided by the government. Under a special project
prepared by the federal government authorities, FUNAI is upgrading its
organization and operations in the region and has already initiated a
series of measures giving priority treatment to (a) the protection and
demarcation of Amerindian lands, and the removal of illegal settlers; and
(b) health care, through stepped-up preventive campaigns and more effective
assistance to fight infectious diseases. Further lines of action would
seek to promote education and economic development activities. Planning
would be decentralized for more efficient field-level involvement. The
government's commitments regarding the implementation of the special
program is covered under Section 4.05 of Loan Agreement No. 2060-BR,
(Agricultural Development and Environmental Protection Project) dated
December 15, 1981 and Supplemental Letter No. 1 of the same date.



11 -
31.       Program Costs and Financing.  The total cost of the POLONOROESTE
program, including physical and price contingencies, is estimated at about
US$1.5 billion. This excludes agricultural credit on the order of US$100
million.  The preliminary government financing plan for the POLONOROESTE
program assumes that 43% of the program would be financed from the budgets
of the various executing agencies, and 23% from special development funds.
The government has requested Bank financing for the remaining 34%.
Agricultural credit would be financed through existing credit programs
outside the POLONOROESTE program budget. Funding would be channelled
through the various implementation agencies under the supervision of
SUDECO, which would coordinate and monitor all program activities. Funds
allocated to agencies of the state of Mato Grosso would be channeled
through the state planning secretariat.
32.       Program Benefits and Justification.  The northwest region has
considerable potential in agriculture and forestry, and response to public
investments made through the POLONOROESTE program is expected to be both
rapid and extensive. The region's agricultural production is expected to
grow at a 13% average annual rate (compared to a historical growth rate of
5% for all Brazilian agriculture), while more sustained cropping would be
encouraged. Transport cost savings associated with program investments in
transport infrastructure would result in improved price incentives to agri-
cultural producers and cost-efficient access to domestic and export
markets. The POLONOROESTE program would provide large numbers of poor
migrants with enhanced employment and income opportunities and would sub-
stantially improve living conditions, especially access to education and
health services.  An economic rate of return computation for the program
has been attempted, based on a comparison of the "with-and-without" program
situations. The "without" situation assumes no investments in the main
highway or feeder roads, no institutional strengthening and no additional
technical support of agriculture. The "with" program scenario incorporates
all actions to be taken under the program. The internal rate of return of
the entire program, computed over a 20-year period, has been estimated at
over 50%, reflecting primarily the predicted substantial increase in agri-
cultural output as well as improving facilities for transporting this
output. Major non-quantifiable benefits include better protection of large
ecologically sensitive areas, intensification of efforts to protect the
Amerindian population, improved health and education services, strengthen-
ing of the capacity of regional institutions, and improved knowledge of the
Amazon basin environment. There are also costs which are difficult to
quantify attached to the development of the region, such as those asso-
ciated with possible invasions of unsuitable soils, potential threats to
native flora and fauna species and pressure on previously isolated
Amerindian populations.
33.       Program Risks.  The POLONOROESTE program is to be implemented in
a frontier area of the Amazon region. The lack of some detailed regional
information gives rise to uncertainties regarding the environmental risks
of the program. The recently approved Northwest Region Agricultural
Development and Environmental Protection Project includes measures to help
protect the more fragile areas of the region and monitor land use closely
so that potentially dangerous trends could be halted. These measures are
being complemented under the proposed project (paragraph 47). The proposed
program would also entail increased risks to the region's Amerindian



- 12 -
communities. The government is already taking steps to safeguard the
interests of these communities. The continuity and timeliness of these
actions would be closely monitored. Despite these mitigating measures, the
execution of the program would entail a high degree of risk. However, this
risk would be considerably lower than that which would exist were no
attempts made to control the negative effects of the ongoing spontaneous
and disorderly development of the northwest region.
PART IV - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Sector Performance, Constraints and Policy
34.       Agriculture continues to be an important sector in the Brazilian
economy. It employs about 36% of the economically active population, and
contributes about 11% of the total GDP and half of total export earnings.
Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the
largest producer of sugarcane, and the third largest producer of soybeans.
Other major agricultural exporlts include meat and fish products, cotton,
corn, peanuts, cocoa, castor oil, and sisal. Whereas coffee accounted for
45% of total export earnings in the mid-1960s, its share had dropped to 11%
by 1975 and is now around 14% (1980). About 66% of Brazil's natural rubber
consumption is imported at present. In most years Brazil has been
self-sufficient in basic food production, except for wheat. From 1970-79,
the average annual agricultural growth rate was about 5%.
35.       The great majority oif farmers in the north, northeast and center-
west regions continue to employ traditional agricultural practices and
rudimentary technology. Constraints on increased agricultural production,
particularly for small farmers, include: limited access to institutional
credit, extension services and modern agricultural inputs; inadequate
supporting services and infrastructure for marketing, storage and
transport; and uncertain land ltenure and highly uneven land distribution.
36.       About 36% of the national territory (some 306 million ha) is
comprised of agricultural properties. About half of the agricultural area
is used for livestock production. A further 30% is devoted to extractive
or planted forestry, or is productive land not currenty utilized. Brazil
has traditionally relied on an expansion of its development frontiers to
increase its agricultural production.  This trend is likely to continue in
the decades to come, despite productivity gains expected from stepped-up
investments in agricultural research. During the 1981-85 period, in part
due to the rapid expansion of biomass energy programs, it is estimated that
up to 2.8 million ha of new land will be cultivated annually.
37.       Agricultural development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's Third National Develolpment Plan (1980-85). Major policy objec-
tives include: (a) the increase of basic staple and export production,
especially by small- and medium-scale producers; (b) improvement of produc-
tion, storage, transport and marketing systems; (c) expansion of agricul-
tural research and extension a,-tivities; and (d) decentralization of agri-
cultural policy execution and the increased participation of the private
sector, and state and local governments. Government measures aimed at



- 13 -
stimulating agricultural production and raising rural incomes, particularly
among small-scale producers, include:  (a) reorganization of federal exten-
sion services to provide better rural extension services to a broader
segment of the rural population; (b) support of special programs such as
POLONORDESTE in the northeast and POLONOROESTE in the northwest; and
(c) expansion of access to institutional credit.
38.       An important aspect of Brazil's agricultural policy has been the
provision of agricultural credit at subsidized interest rates which, with
the continuing high level of inflation, are negative in real terms.  The
subsidies were introduced to induce an expansion in agricultural production
by offsetting the high cost of inputs and by giving special assistance to
disadvantaged groups. However, the drawbacks of the system -- economic
distortions and administrative complexity -- have become increasingly
apparent. The government recently announced increases in nominal interest
rates for all agricultural credits, as well as the reduced eligibility of
larger-scale farmers and specific end-uses for subsidized funding, and has
indicated that it intends to continue reducing these subsidies over time.
Bank Involvement in Brazil's Agricultural Sector
39.       Bank-assisted operations in Brazil's agricultural sector combine
an area development approach, which focusses on poor rural areas in the
northeast and northwest, with a functional approach designed to bring about
needed policy changes. To date, the Bank has made 22 loans totalling
US$868.6 million for agricultural and rural development in Brazil. Of
these, eleven, including the recently approved northwest region agricul-
tural development and environmental protection project, were for rural
development; two each for irrigation, livestock development, agro-indus-
tries and agricultural research; and one each for land settlement, agricul-
tural extension services, and grain storage. In addition, Bank loans for
fertilizer production, a nutrition research and development project, secon-
dary and feeder roads and a northeast basic education project are having a
direct impact on agricultural production and rural development. Field
appraisal for a rural development project in the northeastern state of
Maranhao and the proposed Amazonas state agricultural development project
have recently been completed. Completion and Project Performance Audit
Reports have been issued for the grain storage and the two livestock devel-
opment projects. In each of these three projects, significant differences
developed between the government and the Bank regarding interest rate
policy, leading to some cancellation and/or early repayments of the loans.
Project Performance Audit Reports are currently under preparation for an
agro-industry credit project and the Alto Turi land settlement project.
PART V - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project is part of the POLONOROESTE program and
was prepared by the state and federal government authorities with the
assistance of the Bank/FAO Cooperative Program. This project was appraised
in June 1981 and negotiated from February 1 to February 5, 1982. The
Brazilian delegation to the negotiations was led by Ambassador Leite
Ribeiro of the Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency. A Staff



14 -
Appraisal Report, entitled "Brazil Northwest Region Development Program:
Second Phase - Mato Grosso Rural Development Project" (No. 3635-BR, dated
February 23, 1982) is being d-Lstributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Area
41.       The state of Mato Grosso is a transition area between the
cerrados (savannah lands) to the east and south wlich cover some 33% of the
state's land area, and humid tropical jungles to the west and north which
cover some 57% of the state and include about 18% of the Amazon basin
region of Brazil. The remaining 10% of the state is a low-lying swampland
(the Pantanal) in the basin of the Paraguay river. Rainfall varies from
1,150 mm/annum in the Pantanal to 2,000 mm/annum in the northern rain
forest.
42.       The project area covers some 61,500 km2 and includes nine munici-
palities located in the central and western parts of the state (IBRD Map
No. 15935 attached at the end of this report). Some 30% of the area can be
used, with minor restrictions, for annual or perennial crops. A further
20% is estimated as capable of sustaining annual cropping with appropriate
policies and inputs, 35% could best be used for seeded or natural pasture,
and the remaining 15%, suitable only for forestry, should be kept as
reserves. The population of the project area in 1980 was about 217,000, of
which 59% was rural. Occupation of the area began in the mid-eighteenth
century when gold prospectors and explorers established settlements along
the rivers. Between 1960 and 1970, stimulated by the opening of the agri-
cultural frontier, population growth mushroomed to about 13% per annum.
Immigration slowed to about 7% per annum in the following decade, as the
best agricultural areas were occupied and cheaper and better land became
available in Rondonia.
43.       The main economic activity in the project area is related to
agriculture or timber extraction. The total area under crops in the
project area was estimated at some 160,000 ha in 1979, with a further
600,000 ha under pasture. The average farm size for the overall project
area is 167 ha. Only 39% of the area farmers own the land they are work-
ing. The remainder are either squatters (29%), renters (27%), or share-
croppers (5%). The estimated present income of the targeted beneficiary
families is equivalent to a weighted average of about US$2,735 in 1981.
However, some 75% of the farm families fall below the rural poverty level
for Brazil, which is about US$330 per capita, or US$1,980 for a family of
average size (6 people). Although the region is within 100 km of a federal
highway, thus placing it under the jurisdiction of the National Institute
of Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA), the state land agency and
colonization companies have also issued titles in the region, often without
an adequate title search, resulting in overlapping claims to land and in
conflicts. INCRA is proceeding with land tenure regularization activities
which would be accelerated with Bank financing under the first-phase loans
to the Northwest Program.



- 15 -
44.       Productive and social infrastructure and services in the project
area are deficient. Agricultural extension services have traditionally
focused on credit activities and, until recently, favored the larger
farmers. Agricultural practices and technology among the area's small
farmers remain largely rudimentary. Modern agricultural inputs and
equipment are provided almost exclusively by private suppliers. The main
government credit agencies operating in the area have few outlets, which
restricts the small farmers' access to credit.   Private intermediaries
constitute the main link between farmers and markets. The main crop is
rice (about 50% of the total area cropped in 1979), followed by beans,
corn, manioc and coffee. Some farmers are experimenting with soybeans,
which are grown more widely in the southeastern part of the state. Rural
electrification is practically nonexistent. Health and education services
are poor in the rural areas. Most of the medical services in the project
area are provided through the private sector and service coverage is thin,
with almost all facilities located in urban centers. The school
participation rate for the rural population between seven and 14 years of
age is 48% compared to an area-wide average of 65%. Teacher qualifications
are poor, especially in rural areas.
Project Objectives
45.       The proposed project aims at stabilizing the rural population and
improving the long-term agricultural development in an area which was the
agricultural frontier 10 to 15 years ago, and is now settled by farmers who
have established a fairly reliable productive base. Proposed project
objectives are to: (a) raise the income and living standards of some 17,500
families operating farms under 200 ha, giving priority and more intensive
assistance to a group of 10,000 of the least developed small-scale farmers,
95% of which are either sharecroppers or owner-operators in the 0-100 ha
size category; (b) promote a sustainable development of agricultural
production mainly through improvements in production techniques, with some
increases in areas cropped; and (c) improve agricultural and social
services in the area, expand and strengthen physical infrastructure, and
improve the Government's capacity to plan and execute similar area
development programs in other parts of the state. Project activities would
focus on some thirty small rural communities which are the gathering points
and service centers for most of the small-scale farmers in the region.
These communities, already identified and surveyed, are located in areas of
at least reasonable agricultural potential.
Project Components
46.       The proposed project would include the following activities:
(a) the strengthening and expansion of agro-ecological zoning, rural exten-
sion, agricultural research and input supply; (b) the improvement of physi-
cal infrastructure, including consolidation and expansion of crop storage
and drying capacity, improvement of municipal roads and establishment of a
road maintenance capability; (c) the strengthening and expansion of educa-
tion and health facilities and services, and construction of rural water
supply and sanitation systems and community centers; and (d) establishment
of project management and coordination, including monitoring and on-going
evaluation. Additional support activities such as credit for agricultural



- 16 -
agroindustrial development, minimum price purchase mechanisms, and financ-
ing for recurrent costs, including incremental ones, not financed by the
project, would be provided by the Government. The recently approved
northwest region agricultural development and environmental protection
project would provide for a series of parallel activities in Mato Grosso
crucial for attaining the objectives of the proposed project, such as land
tenure regularization and the strengthening of IBDF operations in the area.
47.       Agro-ecological Zoning.  In support of longer-term development
planning in the area, as well as the specific agricultural extension and
adaptive research work to be carried out under the project, this component
would continue efforts to identify better the natural resource potential of
the area, undertake general agricultural aptitude studies, and collect and
analyze environmental data with a view to preserving the ecological equi-
librium of the region. The component, to be executed by the state agricul-
tural research agency (EMPA-MT), would provide for soils and agricultural
aptitude surveys of 55,000 km2 covering the ecologically and pedologically
most diverse portion of the project area, and the Guapore Valley at a scale
of 1:250,000. Vehicles and equipment, consultancy services, incremental
staffing and operating costs would also be financed under this component.
48.       Rural Extension.  EMATER-MT would be expanded and upgraded to
provide intensive technical assistance (including individual on-farm
guidance) to some 10,000 small-scale farmers (owners and non-owners) in
order to improve their agricultural production techniques, with particular
attention given to crop diverSification and to raising on-farm produc-
tivity. EMATER-MT would also initiate broader group-based agricultural
orientation and promote community organization and education in nutrition,
sanitation, and home economics, which measures together would benefit the
larger target group of 17,500 farm families. The component would finance
the establishment of 11 local offices and 150 demonstration plots, as well
as vehicles and equipment, training courses for extensionists and farmers,
and incremental staffing and operating costs. The field-level agricultural
extension staff would be increased and a new social extension staff of
about 30 persons would be established. All new local extension offices, to
be located so as to serve at least 500 small-scale farmers, would be oper-
ational by April 1, 1984 (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
49.       Adaptive Agricultural Research.  The proposed agricultural
research activities would complement the ongoing research included in two
Bank-financed research projects (Loans 1249-BR and 2016-BR). Emphasis
would be placed on selecting and adapting varieties and cultivation tech-
niques appropriate to the ecological and logistical conditions in the
project area. The newly created EMPA-MT would be the executing agency.
The proposed component will help finance the establishment of a regional
center for coordination and support of research activities, three local
experiment stations and simple weather observation stations and hydrolo-
gical observation posts. Other items to be financed include consultancy
services, and incremental staLffing and operating costs. EMPA-MT would
publicize each year, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the results of
the proposed research activit:ies, and would, each year, consult with
EMATER-MT and representatives of project area farmers before establishing
its annual research program. A condition of disbursement for the



- 17 -
the research component would be that appropriate sites for the three
research stations had been acquired (paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement).
50.       Input Supply.  The project would help improve the supply of
agricultural inputs by financing the establishment of a supply store and
the implantation and initial operation of three nurseries in the project
area. The state agricultural development company (CODEAGRI) would be the
executing agency for this component. The state government would ensure
that adequate working capital be provided for stocking and operating the
input supply post which would be in operation by December 31, 1982.
51.       Crop Drying and Storage.  The improvement of two existing 3,000-
ton warehouses, including the construction of adjacent grain dryers and the
construction of a new 6,000-ton warehouse, would be financed in the early
years of the project. An additional 18,000 tons of grain storage and
drying capacity and three further weighing and drying stations would be
subsequently constructed, based on the results of studies undertaken in the
project's early years. The state crop-drying and storage company (CASEHAT)
would be the executing agency for this component. Construction of the
additional 18,000 tons of storage capacity and of the further weighing and
drying stations would be conditional upon receipt by the Bank of evidence
of adequate full utilization of installed capacity in the project area
during the preceeding calendar year, and on receipt of an updated regional
grain storage and drying plan satisfactory to the Bank. The state and
federal governments would ensure the effective implementation of the
existing minimum price crop loan and purchase mechanism (Sections 2.11 and
2.12 of the draft Project Agreement and and 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
52.       Municipal Road Improvements.  The component would include the
design and construction of improvements on 1,470 km of municipal roads in
the project area. A system to provide routine maintenance and emergency
works on these roads would be established and its initial operation
financed under the project. The component coordinating agency, CODEMAT,
would contract out improvement works for 805 km of roads in the six munici-
palities newly created or restructured, which are the weakest administra-
tively. Works for the remaining 665 km would be executed through force
account by the municipalities; four technical support teams would be estab-
lished within CODEMAT by March 31, 1983 to assist the municipalities in the
planning and execution of road maintenance and improvement programs.
53.       Education.  The component would seek to increase access to, and
improve the quality of, rural primary education. Under the project, about
126 schools (equivalent to an additional 394 classrooms and 31,520 student
places) and three additional multi-purpose schools (to expand vocational
training opportunities) would be constructed and equipped. About 122
existing schools would be renovated. Some 1,820 teachers and
administrative personnel would be trained. Curricula, coordination and
monitoring of rural education activities in the project area would be
upgraded. These measures should raise the primary student area-wide
matriculation rate from 65% to 73% by 1987 with the rural rate increasing
from 48% to 70%. The state's Secretariat of Education and Culture (SEC)



-- 18 -
would be responsible for coordinating the execution of the component.  The
location of schools to be constructed or renovated under the project would
depend on an ongoing school riapping exercise which would be completed, with
a satisfactory map furnished to the Bank, by September 30, 1982. A satis-
factory implementation plan for multi-purpose schools, detailing oper-
ational plans, objectives, and evaluation parameters would be furnished to
the Bank by September 30, 1982. The Bank would be provided with a satis-
factory review of the initial results of the implementation of the first
multi-purpose school prior to executing the other two (Section 2.13 of the
draft Project Agreement). A condition of disbursement for this component
would be that the central and regional SEC coordination staffs were in
place and operational (Paragraph 3(e) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement).
54.       Rural Water Supply.  In order to support activities under the
health component, and reduce the incidence of water-borne disease, the
project would provide for the construction and equipping of about 24
simplified rural water supply systems and the establishment of maintenance
capabilities for existing and new systems. The state water supply company
(SANEMAT) would be the executing agency. Prior to initiating the construc-
tion of a rural water supply system, EMATER-MT, in cooperation with SEC and
SANEMAT personnel, would assist the recipient community to establish an
association responsible for operation and maintenance of the system and
collection of water use charges sufficient to cover operation and mainte-
nance costs.  SANEMAT would be responsible for routine preventive mainte-
nance of the systems installed (Section 2.14 of the draft Project
Agreement).
55.       Health and Sanitation. The project would improve the coverage
and quality of primary health care services in the project area through:
(a) the construction and equipping of seven health centers and 30 health
posts; (b) the expansion of an existing health center in Caceres; (c) the
training of 81 health post attendants, 21 attendant supervisors, 14 sanita-
tion auxiliary personnel in latrine construction and seven laboratory tech-
nicians, and the provision of refresher courses for state Secretariat of
Health (SES) staff in administration of health services and community orga-
nizations; (d) provision of vehicles and bicycles for operation of the
health services system; (e) installation of some 5,400 latrines in communi-
ties trained and organized for their installation; (f) the strengthening of
SES planning and supervision capacity; and (g) incremental staffing and
other costs associated with first year startup activities. The state
Secretariat of Health would be the executing agent for this component. A
satisfactory manual for rural health attendants, including guidance in the
bi-monthly routine family visitation program and other responsibilities,
would be provided to the Bank by September 30, 1982 (Section 2.15 of the
draft Project Agreement).
56.        Community Organization.  To enhance community development and
participation, the project would help organize and train community councils
in coordination with agents of the rural extension, health and education
components, as well as other agencies active at the local level. Six
community centers would be constructed. The executing agency for this
sub-component would be EMATER-MT. Communities to be assisted under this
component would be selected based on their demonstrated receptivity and



- 19 -
interest, the fact that they have a majority of small-scale farmers, are
being assisted under other components of the projects, and are distributed
so as to enable broad demonstration effects as well as use of facilities by
nearby communities. Initiation of the construction of any community center
would be conditional upon receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory construc-
tion plan and evidence that a community council had been formed and was
functioning satisfactorily (Section 2.16 of the draft Project Agreement).
57.       Activities Parallel to the Project.  On-farm investment credit
would be provided principally from the existing rural credit programs.
Since these operate with highly negative real interest rates, credit was
not included in Bank financing for the proposed project. However, the
federal government would ensure that adequate credit for working capital
and investment was made available in a timely manner to the project benefi-
ciaries (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Incremental credit
requirements for the 10,000 directly assisted farmers have been estimated
at US$15 million equivalent for on-farm investment credit and about US$28
million equivalent for seasonal credit.
58.       The state Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA-MT) is develop-
ing a state seed production and distribution scheme, within the guidelines
established by the National Seed Production Program. This scheme would
establish a mechanism to evaluate potential statewide demand for the
various types of certified seed, and promote mechanisms involving both the
public and private sector to supply these requirements. The state govern-
ment would ensure that it would, by September 30, 1982, employ a coordin-
ator for the seed supply scheme and put this scheme into operation (Section
3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
59.       The total cost exclusive of farm credit of the proposed five-year
project is estimated at US$76.4 million equivalent, of which about US$14.2
million would be foreign exchange equivalent. The total includes about
US$1.5 million equivalent in local taxes. Physical contingencies were
estimated at about 11% of mid-1981 base costs. Price contingencies equal
to 29% of base costs were calculated in US dollars on the following basis:
9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, and 7.5% for 1983-85. A breakdown of the
estimated cost is shown in the Loan and Project Summary on page iii.
60.       The proposed loan of US$26.4 million, which includes US$0.4
million for the capitalized front-end fee assessed by the Bank, would
finance 35% of the net-of-tax project cost, exclusive of credit
requirements, covering the entire foreign exchange component and US$11.8
million equivalent (about 19%) of local costs. It seems reasonable for the
Bank to finance this portion of local costs in order to make a meaningful
contribution to a project designed to improve the income and living
conditions of relatively low-income farmers. Retroactive financing of up
to US$2 million equivalent would be permitted to help cover eligible
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1981. The federal government would
contribute the balance of the project cost from the budget of the
POLONOROESTE program and through regular agency and state allocations. The
federal government would ensure that these counterpart funds as well as all
facilities, services, and other resources required for the purpose of the
project would be provided in a timely manner (Section 3.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
Procurement
61.       Civil works for mun:icipal road improvement would be relatively
simple and often located in somewhat remote areas. Part of these works
(totalling US$4.6 million) would be contracted out following local competi-
tive bidding procedures which are satisfactory. The procedures do not
preclude foreign contractors from bidding, but they are not expected to be
interested because of the scattered nature of the works and limited size of
construction lots (estimated costs from US$300,000 to US$500,000). The
remaining part of the works (totalling US$2.1 million) would be carried out
by force account. Most civil works for education, health, drying and
storage and other project construction (totalling US$18.9 million) would be
in relatively small lots and quite dispersed, and would be awarded follow-
ing local competitive bidding procedures. A small portion of the works
would be carried out by force account or by community action. Road con-
struction and maintenance equipment (totalling US$2.6 million) and other
equipment, materials and vehicles required by the project (totalling US$3
million) would be purchased in several stages, by executing agencies in
various locations, over the 5--year execution period. They would be
procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures which are
acceptable. Satisfactory evidence of acquisition of construction sites
would be furnished to the Bank prior to the initiation of construction of
any school, health post or health center, or community center to be
financed under the project (Section 2.17 of the draft Project Agreement and
Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Consultancy Services.  The equivalent of 6 man-years of consul-
tancy services would be required under the project to provide technical
assistance in road design, adaptive research, agro-ecological zoning, the
education component, and project monitoring and administration. The cost
of such consulting services, which are expected to be provided locally,
would range from US$1,200 to US$4,000 per month, depending on the
specialty. The selection, qualifications, experience, and terms and condi-
tions of employment of these consultants would be in accordance with Bank
policies and procedures (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
63.      Disbursements.  The proceeds of the proposed loan would be
disbursed against 34% of expenditures for each project component. In order
to reduce the interval during which the Government would finance the
Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, the Government may
request the Bank to make advance payments in dollars from the loan account
into a Special Account to be opened in the Central Bank (Section 2.02 of
the draft Loan Agreement). nTe Government would be entitled to make with-
drawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account upon submission of withdrawal
applications to the Central BEnk. Conversion from dollars into cruzeiros
would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date the expendi-
tures on the project were made. The Central Bank would forward the with-
drawal applications to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special
Account. Supporting documentation for minor civil works by force account
and for operational expenses would not be submitted to the Bank, but would
be retained by the agency responsible for their certification and would be
made available for inspection by the Bank during project supervision
missions. Standard documentation covering contracted civil works,
vehicles, equipment and technical assistance would be submitted to the



- 21 -
Bank. Disbursement for each construction facility under the agricultural
research, and crop drying and storage components would be conditioned upon
satisfactory evidence of the acquisition of land required for these
facilities.  The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31,
1986.
Accounts and Audit
64.       Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate
accounts of its project expenditures which would be audited annually by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.  Copies of the participating
agencies' audited statements would be provided to the Bank through SUDECO
within six months of the end of the POLONOROESTE fiscal year. These
reports would include an opinion (and comments as necessary) on the methods
employed in the compilation of the statement of expenditures, their
accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing
in terms of the project's legal agreements and the standard of record
keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. The Special
Account would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
(Sections 5.03 and 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
65.       Overall Coordination of the POLONOROESTE Program.  SUDECO has
established a POLONOROESTE general coordination unit under its Deputy
Superintendency of Planning to monitor and evaluate program progress and
impact, initiate special studies, and harmonize program activities. A
program coordinator has already been appointed. SUDECO has already under-
taken, as part of the first-phase loans, to (a) appoint two section chiefs
(in charge of monitoring, evaluation and special studies, and of harmoni-
zation of program activities, respectively) under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, no later than March 31, 1982; (b) complete the
establishment of the coordination unit by March 31, 1982; and (c) maintain
this unit with personnel whose qualifications, experience and conditions of
employment are satisfactory to the Bank. SUDECO would, by October 31 of
each year, provide the Bank with the proposed POLONOROESTE program plan of
operations and budget, by component, for the following year (Section 3.02
of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       Project Management and Organization.  Although most project
components would be executed by existing agencies, overall coordination and
management of the project at the state level would be the responsibility of
a specially created Project Management Unit (PMU) in the state's Cabinet
of Planning and Coordination (GPC). GPC would enter into written project
contractual arrangements (convenios) with all the executing agencies
involved, providing guidelines and key targets for the execution of the
component involved, understandings and procedures regarding disbursement of
funds, reporting requirements and needs for collaboration with other
entities (Section 2.04 of the draft Project Agreement). Receipt by the
Bank of satisfactory contractual arrangements would be a condition of
disbursement for each component (Paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement).
67.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  A project monitoring system would be
established and managed by the PMU to alert management to problems which
could emerge, and to provide a basis for the annual planning exercise.



- 22 -
Execution information would be provided to the PMU by the executing
agencies on a quarterly basis to be consolidated and submitted to SUDECO
for incorporation into the POLONOROESTE program monitoring system. The
project information system would build on existing reporting requirements,
but would add indicators designed to indicate more clearly the quality of
services provided. SUDECO already maintains a computerized data system for
monitoring the physical and financial progress for all special programs.
This project's monitoring system would feed into that larger system. An
annual review of project impact on agricultural activities would be held at
the end of the production cycle. Attainment of project objectives in
health, education and community development would also be reviewed annually
by PMU staff and SUDECO. These periodic impact reports would be
incorporated into the regular quarterly project reports. PMU, SUDECO and
the executing agencies would develop standardized data requirements and
reporting formats, establish coding and analysis procedures, and provide
the Bank with monitoring plans and procedures by September 30, 1982. The
quarterly monitoring reports would be provided to the Bank promptly upon
their completion, but not later than three months after the end of the
respective POLONOROESTE fiscal quarter (Section 3.04 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
68.       Evaluation of project activities, including ad hoc, mid-term
review, and project completion studies, would be carried out as part of the
overall evaluation of the PO]JONOROESTE program being financed under the
first-phase loans, under the responsibility of the general POLONOROESTE
coordination unit within SUDECO, with the assistance of independent consul-
tants satisfactory to the Bank.  It is expected that some aspects of these
evaluation activities could be contracted to local agencies with adequate
qualifications, such as the federal university of Mato Grosso.
Benefits and Justification
69.       The impact of the project on agricultural production in the
project area is expected to be derived from productivity gains for annual
and perennial crops and livestock, an expansion in areas of annual and tree
crops, and a reduction in post-harvest losses. Although most of the pro-
duction increases are assumed to come from the 10,000 farmers who would
adopt proposed practices and receive more intensive extension assistance,
the adoption of only a portion of the package by the remaining 7,500
farmers who only receive limited extension orientation and training would
also have a positive impact on production. At estimated June 1981 farmgate
prices, incremental annual production at full development is expected to
amount to US$34 million. Of this, some 7% is due to rice, 47% to coffee,
8% to other perennial crops (such as rubber and bananas), 25% to other
annuals (such as beans, corn, soybeans and manioc), and 13% to incremental
production of beef and milk. The range of perennial and annual crops is
expected to broaden with the establishment of appropriate processing indus-
tries (including alcohol from sugarcane or manioc), the expansion of the
marketing apparatus for tropical fruits (such as avocados, coconuts,
oranges, and mangos) and as the results of the adaptive agricultural
research program become available. Although the area under coffee is
projected to expand some 15,500 ha, project support includes improving the
productivity of existing stands (some 12,000 ha) through improved husbandry
and cutback pruning. Incremental project production at full development is



- 23 -
estimated at 14,400 tons of green coffee beans. This represents less than
1.5% of average Brazilian production during the last five years. The
International Coffee Organization (ICO) considers world oversupply of
coffee by the end of the decade a possibility. ICO reintroduced quotas on
exports of coffee in October 1980 and has cautioned against investment in
projects designed to increase production significantly, unless such
increased production is due to a diversified pattern of agriculture as part
of an integrated rural development program. Production from such programs
should be offset by reduced production from marginal areas taken out of
coffee. The proposed project meets these criteria as the production of
coffee in the project area is part of rural development efforts oriented
towards relatively low-income farmers. Moreover, it is expected that the
new production will replace coffee from less suitable areas such as the
"frost belt" areas of Parana, where coffee production is declining. In the
northwest region, on the other hand, ecological considerations make tree
crops particularly suitable to protect soil resources, while other crop
alternatives are limited. Brazil's interest in an orderly operation of the
world market for coffee is evidenced by Brazil's consistent support of the
International Coffee Agreement. The Government has represented to the Bank
that its policy in the 1980s is to aim for a production capacity of around
28-30 million bags per annum, which would cover Brazil's probable export
quota under the International Coffee Agreement, as well as export to
non-quota countries and domestic consumption. Such a production capacity
might also allow for the creation of a limited reserve stock which is
required for facilitating compliance with the country's export commitments
during post-frost shortages.  In view of these considerations the Brazilian
policy target of 28-30 million bags per annum would not present serious
market risks for the remainder of the 1980s.  The Government has provided
us with policy statements and descriptions of its use of policy instruments
such as control of working capital and investment credit and producer price
guarantees.  The Government's confirmation of its intention to use these
instruments effectively to assure that production is within a level
compatible with its international obligations and a stable world market and
that coffee production in new non-traditional regions would be offset by
reductions elsewhere, further reduces the risk of excess production.
Project return for coffee has been computed on the assumption that prices
would not rise, in real terms, from their present levels for the next ten
years.
70.       At full development (by 1995), the 10,000 direct beneficiary
families would increase their average annual income for the average family
of six from US$2,735 at present to US$6,750. Return to on-farm family
labor would also double, going from the current level of US$8 per day to
about US$17 per day. The project cost per family would be about US$3,700,
taking into consideration the full number of families to benefit from the
various project activities. This cost includes physical and price contin-
gencies, but excludes on-farm development credit.
71.       At full development, the government of Mato Grosso would derive
tax revenues of some US$3.2 million per annum from the incremental
production. These expected revenues would be equivalent to the estimated
recurrent costs required to maintain the infrastructure and services
established under the project.   Storage and water supply tariffs would



- 24 -
cover the operating and maintenance costs of the services. The federal
government would achieve revenues in excess of US$12 million per annum from
the export tax on incremental coffee production.
72.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return for the
directly productive aspects of the proposed project (representing about 68%
of total project costs) has been estimated at about 24%. For various other
aspects of the project, such as the health, rural water supply and
education components, which have significant but not readily quantifiable
benefits, no economic rate of return was calculated. The cost stream
included all on-farm incremental investment and operating costs, off-farm
investments in infrastructure and services directly related to agricultural
production, and the recurrent cost of maintaining these services during the
25-year period of analysis. The benefit stream includes incremental
agricultural production for the 10,000 farmers receiving direct technical
assistance and credit. The estimated return of the project is fairly
insensitive to likely variations in costs and benefits. A reduction of 50%
of the value of the benefits would reduce the economic rate of return to
16%, and a simultaneous 20% increase in costs and reduction in benefits
would lower the economic rate of return to 19%.
73.       The development of perennial crops in the project area, and the
intensification of cultivation contemplated as part of the project would
create employment for an equivalent of 6,500 fully employed laborers per
year, of which over 90% would be drawn from family labor. The economic
activity generated by the incremental agricultural production would
furthermore create numerous jobs in the intermediation, milling and
processing industries.
Risks and Uncertainties
74.       The project area is located in an environmentally delicate
agricultural frontier, but has been settled and cultivated for 10 to 20
years, in contrast to the Rondonia section of the Northwest Program area
which is still being occupied. The challenge in this project, as with
other agricultural facets of the POLONOROESTE program, is to establish and
maintain a fairly intensive productive base, to stabilize the existing
small-farmer migrant population within the region, and to help prevent
irreversible harm to the ecology. This project's zoning, research and
extension activities, combined with the broader environmental protection
measures included in the first phase of the POLONOROESTE program should
help to substantially reduce these risks. The project management,
monitoring and decision processes have been designed to help mitigate the
risk of inadequate interagency coordination. In general, however, while
the risks associated with this project (or risks associated with the
adequacy of execution of the measures included under the overall
POLONOROESTE program) cannot be totally avoided, it is believed that the
measures incorporated in the northwest region development program would
result in a much lower level cf risk than that which would exist if there
were no interventions in the region and the potential of the area is such
that controlled risks are worth facing.



- 25 -
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Mato
Grosso and the Bank, the draft Supplemental Letters, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
the Annex III. Disbursements for each construction facility under the
agricultural research and crop drying and storage components would be
conditioned upon receipt by the Bank of satisfactory evidence that the land
required for these facilities had been acquired. A condition of disburse-
ment for the education component would be that the regional and central SEC
project coordination staffs were in place. Additionally, disbursement for
each component would be conditional upon the execution, satisfactory to the
Bank, of the respective contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph
66 of this report. Failure by the Borrower, Rondonia, Mato Grosso, or the
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento (BNDE) to comply with any covenant
agreement or obligation under the Loan and Project Agreements for the
northwest region first-phase projects would also constitute an event of
default on the proposed project, pursuant to the Bank's General Conditions
(draft Supplemental Letter No. 1).
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 26, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 26 -                                               ANNEX I
Pay.e I  Of  5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHIED AVERAGES
LA'D AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                              - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
IOIAL            8512.0                                    MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
ACGKICLLIURAL    2077.2                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATEN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN                EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    320.0         570.0    1780.0 *                   1616.2                     2609.1
ENERGY CLuSUMPTIUo  PER CAPIIA
(KILOGRAMS UF COAL EQILVALENT)        392.1        565.0    1061.5                     1324.1                      2368.4
POPULATIUN AND VITAL STAIlSTICS
PUPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDb) 71513.0         95322.0  116539.0 *
URB1AN PoPULATIUN (PERCENT DF TOTAL) 46.1           55.9       64.1                       64.2                       53.2
PoUVJLAIoNh PROJECIIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2U0O (MlLL1ONS)                          176.5
STATIUONARY POPULATION  (MILLIONS)                          281.0
YLAR SIAIIONARY PuPULATION IS REACHED                      2U75
POPULATION DENSIIY
PEK SQ. KM.                           8.4         11.2       13.7                       34.3                       80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        44.1         5C.5       55.1                       94.5                      133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCIURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YKE.                            43.6         42.7       41.5                       40.7                       30.1
15-64 YRS.                            53.8         54.3       55.1                       55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6          3.0        3.4                        4.0                        8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOIAL                                 3.0          2.9        2.2                        2.4                         1.5
URBAN                                 5.5          4.8        3.8                        3.7                        3.1
LRUDE BIRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)        42..5        37.0        29.4                      31.4                       22.9
CRU2L DEATH KATE (PER THOUSAND)        12.9          10.5        8.7                       8.4                         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0           2.6        2.0                       2.3                         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTURS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        111.0      203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             1.6
FPOO  AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FPOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             89.0        102.0      114.0                      108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
uALORIES (PERCENT uF
REQUIREMENTS)                     101.0        104.0      107.2                     107.6                       125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             61.0         62.0       62.7                       65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          34.0         34.0       35.1                       34.0                       39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MURIALITY RATE        17.3          12.0        8.3                       7.6                         3.4
HEALTH
LINE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH  (YEARS)    54.7           59.1        62.7                      64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             128.0            ..      92.0                       70.9                       25.2
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
M2PULArION )
TOTAL                                  ..         56.3       77.1                       65.7
URBAN                                  ..         77.7       88.8                       79.7
RURAL                                  ..         29.0       56.8                       43.9
ACCESS TO LXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UO POPULATION)
CUTAL                                  ..         59.9       64.8                       59.9
URaAN                                  ..         86.1       83.7                       75.7
RIJRAL                                 ..         26.5       31.7                       30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             2561.2       2123.8    1700.0                      1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSUN        2772.1       2992.3         ..                     1288.2                      896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               307.0        269.0      247.7                      471.2                      262.3
URBAN                               325.6        322.6         ..                      558.0                      191.8
RUKAL                                  ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         18.0         ..                        ..                       18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.1          4.8        4.9
URBAN                                  ..          4.6        4.7
RURAL                                  ..          5.2        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          1.1
URBAN                                  ..          1.0
RURAL                                  ..           1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                38.7         47.6        63.0
URBAN                                  ..          75.6      84.9
RURAL                                   ..          8.4       19.2



ANNEX I
_27  -                                              Pge 2  of  5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT              HIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIKARY,.    TOTAL                 95.0       125.0       88.0/c                  101.7                     105.9
MALE                 97.0        125.0      87.077                  103.0                     109.6
FEMALE               93.0        125.0      88.07E                  101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  11.0        26.0       24.0/c                   35.3                      66.3
MALE                  11.0        26.0      22.07;                   34.9                       73.2
A                                FEMALE                10.0         26.0      26.07&                   35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  19.0          17.0      47.0/c,d                 30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIF.ARY                           33.0        28.0       22.0/e                   29.6                      26.8
SECONDARY                          13.0         13.0      13.07-                   15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         66.2      75.7                     80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0        24.4       53.6                     42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.4       123.8      155.0                    215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         16.8        64.0       97.9                     89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  54.0        37.0       45.2                     62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0           1.9       1.9                      3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22869.1      30078.5   36718.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   17.5        20.4       22.6                     22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.9        45.6       39.8                     35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.8        18.3       21.8                     23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.0        31.6       31.5                     31.8                      42.3
MALE                                 52.7        50.3       48.9                     49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                               11.2         12.8      14.2                     14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4          1.4       1.4                      1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20) PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0        63.5       62.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8          3.2        2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8          9.0        9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..     150.0                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     465.0                    513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     332.0                    362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years;' therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data;  /d 1974;  /e 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Atlas are US$2,050 (at 1978-80 prices) and
US$119 million.
February 1, 1982



- 28-ANEX 
?COof  5
DEFINITIONSU'F ~SOCIALInICAfiNt
Note:  Although tn  -cAi  ... dra-  from   -L-os  generalIly lodged the aniaabt-at-ssd raihlabi, in  bftood alo Is  -oia  tha  t Oo  ty ton be Octet-
natonll 'I .       alebcas  of...the1 e    Ierk of standardi-ed definiLions, and ..n...ept .. used by      1 difeen  con rie. in collecing  the data.  fhn dete-.  .
oteirta  usefolno descibe ordrs it ug.tlnde, indicate  trends, ar   h-rseter.-iscntt  nejordferos  b--se  oo... e j-
Th.ntrectgrop er (I) th1, anocnrygropo   il                                 ;-jstrutryad  (2) scoontry   ... groyethsOsahtbLigh-raera.ge  ir,...esth,uothe...ntry group
ofteabrtcuty(_enrot for   P'aotaSrpu  01Epotrstop sh-r  "Middle lacun  Not1h A trit  and tiddle lost'' is cho-e  b-o..n. ofetuor
oo uiunaIf"o"u,s  .  D  the Ledarro   group data the s Srag. ar  population e-ghtad  atithnl   an   o   aot.lac   n   loo   ayaa
anjonutly ofteruai.t       ru   or   uafrta   nino   lirst-                               nst-   o  outrr   sog  b lh td iraeora  idtepend  on           h-aannlsbcy  ofdat
Tota  - Total cut r  aa  uno-osio  lard s              -aad inlan   a_et-uban  adralI) darided hr tbiot                                                     -I,rtco   cee  onhayr beda
Eniuluel-tiluae oftenolun1ue   adteoeily or p Idaanl                                         onIoloi ubi rdpiae generlI ed-perftedheitnl std Ls-
fr.  or-ya, yastrea, narke,'t adbobngrdn rt   i  fallre; 19hdt.hhldaloerra-Nsfo    r   ec)tbharos  -oraent0y  neffed
INO Fy byd  ((i) -GNP per rapcna ant irua   ttretmri    rre,ok                                        ltr    tno   Inldad.  tR-1 boepitolI,tosr,  t_lous 0eeth
ruaI d byesrotainc  -etda  Ot0Bn  Als(97-9hcsl   91 nd-sdrlooearo    atntl   tfted turtra                                                                                htb
1970, And 1979 dan.                                                                                   .edit.1 -astlaton, ting, nidilfe,  mr .7otlr   o'to'   taLent
detio  nod yrouide a liaited ..onge of ueflalac'tra                For-   an
-tttr liNtitNOto  FIt  hayl- -t-  Eoon   ronhtd..o.y        .. inroerId lsd org   (oa"IcaI y harroara urban  bopil  cr.r l-dt cOc IIoI or    fAnn   _lbsoel-t,
data.                                                                                              Adataatcr-a car .oarial tad - T-1a o-uehrofaIas-ttoo     otages
trmhsiasdtvidad by tOn  nohofhna
FOFOLITIDN ANI0 VITAI. STATISfTICS
Tona   oonlo,Ndlarccoou  - 00 of J,ly 1; 1960, 1970, and 20)9                                    folutI7NG
doff,ereo  dafloftlo-  of  Ira   ...o nI o, ffer 0 roapor...   fr1y c  data                        sod theIr  ort -.a1..  A toeLero o-          o   o  ornrro   aaclddr
_.rgcuttrre ; S90, 1970. nof 1079 dura.                                                         rhe hoc.ab..    for stoalcl.Faa
_oosro  Poac -o                                                                            O_rraeen_eh-f neracll ne"I           aroa,rfI'ollo'  Aeagts
Fooitict inyea ~2000 - Ccrrr.   poculcro                       IL)er  oo   n  bued o190           bin  of Pern   peL  oo. In n   urban, end tono   -roied rete-,to-
totl  c -iat- by ogt and areord nhnfr   onaoyad fero rltytrt.                                  -llot,   -eoectry. hellf arts            1, aslreo -ponuo t aturore   add
frt(orniortataattett irtonr-.olccrnutesooaFtc..PinnotthrealLe-nlaeuu--rorc-d raP.-
Otoel  nod   fnon literycoo    -olciao  70.0 y-eare -pitfb                  - pat.               fnon Ica   neligae    elnrttnitcit9-  to- tiolon  oureA a  psrto
tentrafor ftiiliyrar Ilaohonrhro              7staanaioeerliooi                                                                                    -t-tl  -chu,uop-rl  nllna-eyoreay
toob.. rnot,y it nhn  ..auig-o   o  o   hsnro -obtIron r  n_tninty                           tDhCAlldt
udfrilitc  L-eds toe cr-) ot ioAFopan.-Ltutd E-ollerot Panfre
trtlntooouatrrlataucur    oylalr  heoIanItoeh:.reFtnrtnhol-etnl.nlesdtn    G-t...onl  nl  ar,d t
eoirocotatatt.  lIfe  It ariron   coyafe   ietl .t as  de.lin  ::r                         y        htnury  nob tlag    p Iunlos   otlItfrderidengd -
rthe yeor 1000  ordth  rceofdelle   f  ntlltyetdt rylcLedoday                                                fhoi    tta.  ul-od  sat           e-- neyordoehoa;snonar
ototlorol.            I                                                                 aduoottnnneqult. h,esunlnat Aoreu..   areprro .d.rcdury   Ltnsnc)o
otto  he ebono ear         IIfehIId.                '     -1l                                      utt ltcltl    t0eoag;crtcdttoieeaoeen
Forclunit sesain                                                                              rerS- dd.tyL.l L..1                df l          .,,dI
tota -rc; -990  190-         d 19)9 i   - ana. -Treudt nerbrlral, j-dretngol, orote  Fciaovh                                                                             - cyeute trpeod
only  190-     1f  urd (979 dora.. Iualtearhfn1 tho-t ynar, an 9earrdr  -                                                                                    -oct    e IeIt trc tl ledu
Potulu kir   Ag  Structue- fecent)  p- Ibdrr- Il  yeana .  ortg-g  (5                                  pimar  an -er1adnt  Itoe-   Otrd-d-nnht  r-i ...rers ir th
Latro   1990  19601.en 1979 dat.uutltrryrt7yr                                                                                              .Iterte aduts (o.hih eie-ado-  uindep-d
oaLeatlon I ron -t-te(ynredc-total-ed nuo   groethraceLtdototLnht-d                                    aseonnaneag   o_ttnendlyooar_eedfyeradoo
yaun ynoularaore  ton 1951-Il, lunD-fl. snd 19(0-19, ~~~~~                                                   ~h.  'd 
lotyions       d     ,d(6   er  .d-r forp190-90,1911-f,inod1970-9.-Oss pr-orCa                                     g (et Ihundnnodlc-ge.frcr   nunn    o
yoyu-ar96r;  196,170,   urd 1979   dana.                                                           eddtli    ye LrLas      ,t t           U..        .t.~b              d
Itiliryrree;95ul_y  tn1-7eun -nrft   ndigi  19, 99    ad1(9                                          osrntneaoll9e   ianlg
of.d   oIhtld-beartngagd (        A0-141ran   bototoa    Penr h-r-orn   Onooe  nod-            AeiaarCtoltod(e   hosn  co,oeo(-  teth                                eaac
0000 001 fOlftIIllO                                                                     to he "dolly"  If iney....earantid-eoachtort dAtln  ay-L   ei
10d_ o   Food           ~  ..doto.pa.. ir   199(-10       Idn  fpt  aia   m01Ao.ouna.AtedreIe   anr  pnOonBsd  nthRochro
1960tlo   f  l  fod19r70n,tdutnecldeodndta   n                                               tickets aold doting,  tbeiyear,_hc  ...a  dsattat d_tticruet
oaclocal_oara.. Ilyrnon fi-ye ca-get  -961-9i, 1970, td19(9, daro,.                              fia   .aho  Force (t1ihouads Ii_rooorol  atceceannlrudo
FercnoironorlorfalorAt(-teo   ofra... uiren-Anr..uI-Cnpitafrn-...                                 I nrntfcre-     atdnesloyehcoaclcrcgoutolcn,atdenp..-Ia,nf,,
necannoaaiotd   yyo   htd  r  bslloiufcotic   dtoluti                                        faio   u   e          genar.f.. ollar  frc:190,170-d   190 I             Oandu,
FOANiD oTIRITbeaNh  oedno    ncon-rlcasaue   oyn ho  sgoIdbtr                                                        Lfrrrt  -t lao omIt IItrfrt0,.cot.-uu. .        ooatr
bocanhol  miI:191-t,P90,dr  it)) Iota.971-00                                                       1970e  p,-pt  - .   i end 1979 Atdana,.       -       B.d.   I.
Forroro_t    uryo o    rofti(doe pe -d-tyf   -Fteltdcotrdeoo   oferd ':ndc                       ytlrira-t-I 000 lne hIrecent  -oi-1nis,          d nale    .1 adIanl-Fei-icaa_   o
aLr lAnooo  61 groa  0pr060   pritnct yet day, otd  0 tes on1 drltl and196, 100  endc 1979 dat. d                                   h a   m    uedo ly 1-t  'a ytiop1tod   ate
cclgy .rco.   ofohh10gaahol  hr actua il.ldd pr trlr   PInngnd                                   rfret_gag-ensnutce __rho y....anir_,IfndIloo  t,an-od
...l Foo   tiroro;   ly1-1   1970 and  19(7 catba,                                           to  the irtol laborIfotca.
o _ed  fro  ale ul; o ando65 o 19 o0 5-usa97 con Icy  191t,990cr   17  a7 C                        0 yIbdz 1979UdoO
00111(oga   1-n  Mrnollto ~   (co chotoo) -Ooooa-inah p-er  rbotoo - o1                 ,ecnun      ,fFiot o,pe              hO  ro   odkcftooolhyAhn
on1h-rch;  160, 19)1 cod              -e p             ~                         1676 Ouo9 ao               Abdol  be  ttp ad   ouThecroterc b.In  ruoiOc.Lt
Ictoonlornutny loeh-ye  rhutr g    -I Ih.oul deta  fjoot  unla,e~,  Th  on.    or.ulae  Ihuloc   F-r-t-Ab n  Intel   (00oa  r-d -i                            g -tbo id     o-dnAl
kcoeatolod F  WarS--  1n6nr 65n of7 ooodnool toa,977          o  oOero   iuu-                       ntnitthne-y  IIIcnIetdonnroo    o-oo   ourpf    00
ofthoi-tttarao- ,!-on  royloroo    oa  u9ta   anaa7 ublo
Chraldenet  onbengolbi  reagocanin ....oau of -...I boone. Iru l Per eh-           a iee  nt  od cate-  fc- tlbeh  -aa   of d kirdf -Rurh-a-n  b-L
_ed                                                                        .,d~~~~~~~~~~~~~feoae   ouoin  eo   hoot  orn   oroelol(erea      rI
doot uf          utyc 0P..I   Olcoocoaco7to o  rca. day c. t f 1ftrto   ttti
fItoo' tnua;   reelt.             d
Oorfaa-  rtoolena Rstoo-sIo .. d I            ...onto9 r ldlo-rr.l f irho,-  adr-y.. Etd natal
Nunhnr of pertla  (annol, urlso.LednAb.lrorPl-7y I-osdIbySeco-ieco-f-n-osulna
rnnceniaonn of onslr respect ba  poFt- lutronath.ttncnotoeIlaplsolhnor lonloi-
and onana-nonr hy saren-bror e7arauncrrneuaa of pi-i-oi...and  iti-                                         Ecorca1 probat   sndt. -rbcrno   tedote-n
losna ..oIthea I.....l..oyptg,                                                                                                                               1001y-1~)
Fouotin fa yhenrOr  F_puLonion_       oddb  nohr  fparlioyi
riaoaquciifidfnnaanedtcl  tchooloiuloeraltyleoIL.                                    ~~_   .                                                                    -
r_poaido  oaLed     tn   aru   -  oualr   il     ty.                 1   -. ou-le  ioh Idaritctg
calsardten-leuraduyrslutaaa



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population         127,0 millior. (1980)
GNP Per Capita;  US$2,050 (1980)
Amount                  Average Annual Increase (Z)                   Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
_______     Indicator                    (Million US$ Current)            (at Constant 1970 Prices)                           (at Current Prices)
1980            1965-70   1970-75   1975-80    1980-85              01                             C      1985
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product /a                    248,200                7.7       10.6       6.9         5.0       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          100.0
Agriculture                                23,365                 1.9        5.7       4.7                     8.2       8.7       9.4       9.4         9.4
Industry                                   71,590                 9.2       11.6       7.6                    29.1      32.6     31.8       28.8       31.8
Services                                  111,365                 8.0       10.7       6.8                    43.0      41.3     42.5       44.4       42.5
Consumption                                  201,040                7.7        9.8       5.7                    76.9      78.6      79.8      80.5        76.3
Gross Investment                              52,460                9.4       14.6       5.2                    23.5      25.4      22.6      21.1        22.9
Exports of Goods and NFS                      21,305                8.2       11.2       7.3                     6.6       7.4       8.2       8.6         9.7
Imports of Goods and NFS                      26,575               14.5       17.2       2.8                     7.0      11.4      10.6      10.7         8.9
Gross Domestic Savings                        47,160                7.9       12.9       6.1                    23.1      21.4      20.2      19,5        23.7
Amosnt                    Average Annual Increase (2)                  Composition of Merchandise Trade (S)
(Million US$ Current)           (at Constant 1970 Prices)                            (at Current Prices)
1980              1965-70          1970-75         1975-80      1946          1970         1975         19807lb
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                          20,132                 7.8           11.9              5.8        100.0        100.0        100.0          100.0
Primary                                     9,840                 7.3            8.3              1.1         82.9         75.1         61.8           44.9
Manufactures                               11,092                 7.9           28.2             18.2         17.1         24.9         38.2           51.1
Merchandise Imports                          22,961                10.0            17.6            -1.4        100.0        100.0         100.0         100.0
Food                                        1,239                -3.8           -6.7             17.5         11.5          4.5          3.0            5.4
Petroleum                                  10,210                 9.3            7.6              4.3         14.7         11.2         24.5           44.5
Machinery and Equipment                     4,392                22.1           15.2             -7.5         15.2         21.2         14.0           19.1
Other                                       7,120                 8.3           28.4             -1.9         58.6         63.1         58.5          31.0
1975        1976         1977          1978         1979         188moL
Prices and Terms of Trade
GOP Deflator (1970=100)                      289.6       410.9        584.2          809.2       1,229.6       2,469.5
Exchange Rate (Cr$/US$)                        8.1        10.6         14.1           18.1          26.9          53.5
Export Price Index (1970-100)                17t5.0      192.0        226.0          228.0         266.0         290.0
Import Price Index (1970=100)                242.0       255.0        286.0         317.0          389.0         431.0
Terms of Trade Index (1970=100)               72.0        75.0         79.0           72.0          68.0          67.0
As Z of GDP
(at CurLent Prices)
1970        1975         1979 /b
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                               16.6        19.8         20.8
Current Expenditure                           14.4        15.8         17.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                     2.2         4.0          3.2
Capital Expenditure                            2.6         3.8          3.7
Financing (Net)                               -0.4         0.2         -0.5
1965-70    1970-75       1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (Z)                            7.7        10.7          5.8
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (Z)                 4.6         7.7          3.0
Energy Consumption Growth Pate (Z)             7.2         7.3          6.5
ICOR                                           2.9         3.0          3.9
Marginal Savings Rate                         20.5        25.7         22.7
import Elasticity                              2.2         1.6          0.3
/a   At marker prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and
indirect taxes less subsidies.
/b   Estimate.
/c   Preliminary.
February 22, 1982



-30-
Page 3 of 3
8UA2410  OP PAYTS2ST, EXTERItAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(illion US$  t current pric-)
Population     117 million  (1980)
CGNP Pe  Cpt:US$2,050 (1940)
ACTUAL                                                                                      PROJECTED
190    1975          1976          1977          1978          1979         1980         -IN    ai 92                           l1983         198-4
Net exports of goods and nri                           -583        -6,702        -6,010        -4,037        -5,999        44, 760)   -13,042        -10,800                (28,000)        -9,974      - 7,155
Exports of goods                                  (2,739)      (8,670)       (10, 129)      (12,120)      (12,659)      (15,244)    (20,132)       (23,300)               (25,000)       35,195        42,244
Import  af gaods                                  (2,507)      (12.210)      (12,38:1)     (12,023)      (13,683)       (18,084)    (22,960)       (22,100)                              31,137        33,634
lN.t factor ion-                                     -330       -1,733        -2.1858        -2,338        -3,237        -3,542       -7,030          -                   (-9,500)      -11,536       -12,807
(ai shioh i--ret PoYmnot)                          _ 284)    (-1,498)      (-1,809)      (-2,103)      (-2,694)      (-4,186)    (-6,311)       (-8,702)                            (-10,192)   (-11,498)
Not oo-faotor n-i..s                                 -485       -1,429        -1, 574,       -1,376        -1,708        -2,378       -3,184          -                                 - 2,493       - 2,762
Nrt tronf-r                                              21              2             1.        -                72            18          133           200                    200            30            30
Correta....o.t balance                                 -362        -6,700        -.6,013       -4,037        -3,927       -10,742      -12,887       -10,630                -10,100       - 9,923       - 7,104
Di-eo  private                 Lbsaot/                   92           892           958           810           906          1,681        1,512         1,300                 1,901          2,228         2,513-
MLaT loan  net                                          76P         3,760         3,033         4,631         8,919          4,843        6,030         9,402                  8,200        10,370         7,910
Toaditioo ... ou..rce-                                833)     C1,408)       (2,032)   -(2,648)          ( 2,793)         (2,246)     (2,409)       (1,203)                (1,890)        1 4,173)    C4,040)
Finanola   ordAtE,                                    566)     C4,324)         5 ,880)     C6,118)       (11,312)         (9,98))     (8,661)      (20,900)               (13,400)    (13,519)    (15,454)
A-otiootioo                                          -632)     (-2,172)       (-3,009)      (-4,133)      0-3.286)       (-6,385)    (-3,020)       (-7,70))              (-7,200)    (-9,321)    (-11,604)
-irxlIio   o-n  shroad Coot)                            -            -192          -268          -26)          -358           -185         -364        -1,000                 -1,000         1,910       - 2,521
Other ospita o.e,i                                      244         1,295         2,627          -307            440        21,104        2,201         2,300                  1 500          -             -
Change Inrsre    -ices)/                               -543           950        -2,346          -630        -3,880          3,215        3,490           4600                  -500      - 755         -   799
Iore-ntls-l Reseve  /d                                1,142         6,036         6,544         7,236        11,826          9,689        6,913         7,503                 8,003          9,301       10,099
Reenn   e  oths ofIxutsI                         5.5           0.9           6.3           7.2          18.4            6.4          3.4           4.1                    2.0           3.6           3.6
ACTUAL                                  _______
1974          1975          17             97           17             99            18
K.terna Dbht
Total debt oatatadiog and dlshbsr-d                                17,576        23,200        28,344        34,440        46,309        50,836        56,407/0f
Pobio and pbslioly gornod9,394                                                13,608         17,211        21,434        30,137        33,092          -
Official .o.ro                                                 3,276         3,911         4,393         4,693         5,354         0,801           -
1380                                                        (  871)       (1,093>,      (1,217)       (1,413)       (1,602)       (1,827)         -
oth-c                                                       (2,603)       (2.8180       (3,176)       (3,280)       (3,732)       03,974)         -
Privsc.o..o.o.                                                 6,128         9,697        12,918        16,741        24,803        29,291           -
Private no-gos-at-d                                              8,182          9,092        11,100        13,006        16,132        15.864 
Dsdishbosd dnbt (poblia omly)                                       2,324         3,761         6,617         8,290        10,083        13,429          -
Genes Dishbss-a-t
Tonal gross dinhce-ts of 858,T loan                                 7,234         6,912         8,076         9,242        14,921        12,181          -
Puhblo and pahblaly goarsotoad                                    2,937         3,717         4,837         5,380        10,133    , 8,760             -
Official export crdits                                            406           395           393           188           486           399          -
185D                                                             247           230            173          299            273           301          -
Other moltilateca1                                                129           1219          ill            92           136           207          -
Private noarc                                                  2,143         2,930         4,160         4,809         9,256          7,9533
rivate no,-g-sxcntend                                             4,317         3,183         3,239         3,962         4,794         3,421          -
Debt S-vicr
Total dabs serice payments                                          3,280         3,670         4,797         6,163         8,017        10,485        13.460
Itotees   (net)                                                 (1,378)       (1,4984)      (1,809)        (2,103)      (2,694)        (4,194)      (6,311)
Psymetn  a  2  f Exports 6 N90                                       38.8          37.6          63.0          46.2          57.2          62.7          66.9
Payments a  If GM3.1                                                                2.8           3.3           3.7           4.2           5.1           3.4
Averge interest rats no  on  guaranteed loan  (Z) !                  10.6           8.7           7.6           8.3           9.9           11,2         -
Offial  snort                                                       7.0           8.0           7.9           8.0           7.5           8.3          -
Averag  eatoity of se  goar-tmd loan                                 10.9           90           11.2            9.9          10.0          11.5          -
Offtinil snort                                                     14.6          13.4          16.2          16.4          14.4          14.1          -
Privete ..ourne                                                     9.7           6.9           9.2           8.7           9.4          11.1          -
IB50 DOD/toa   DCwe (2)                                               3.0           4.7           4.3           4.1           3.3           3.6           3.9
I380 dislnn-aetstntal g.on. disb -snnets  31.4                                      3.6           2.-I          0.2           1.8           2.5
I1B8D debt srfetaldebt serice (0)                                     2.4           2.3           2.7           3.2           2.6           2,0          2.0
As I of total debtnotndn
et ad oi Do.eahe- 1979
aktuity  mtr,tnr  of debt otutesdiog
Netocitin, duo nIthis  3 pear                                                                  66.3
arstrities  duo aithin  18 peer                                                                92.6
/b   Erlodiag os-is-trd prodin..
In    Exolodig dollar valution adjst-tot  and mootiostion of dometic gold. 
/d   laleig   od and dollar valution sdjooMence.
7;   on6d  ony.
7f   Detailssaviab
IA Psblio debt smlp.
Febr-ry 23, 1982



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                                  1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power               125.0           9.0
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power                81.0          19.6
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education            23.5          10.3
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways            175.0           6.0
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads               110.0          21.5
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          22.6
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0          25.2
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture          23.0           5.7
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways             75.0          16.2
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0             8.4
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads         55.0          33.9
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture          40.0          16.6
1300   1976  Eletrobras                        Power                50.0           5.5
1302   1976  Brazil                            Nutrition            19.0           5.0
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply         40.0           3.2
1317   1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry        83.0          70.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                         Power                82.0          20.0
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development  42.0            13.1
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer           64.0          32.0
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do             Fertilizer           55.0           2.2
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                            Education            32.0          23.5
1488   1977  Brazil                            Rural Development  17.0            12.5
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage           110.0          83.3
1537   1978  Brazil                            Rural Development  24.0            20.0
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power               130.0          86.8
1557   1978  Brazil                            Roads               114.0          94.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                           Petrochemicals       85.0          20.3
1563   1978  Brazil                            Urban Transport    88.0            49.4
1568   1978  Brazil                            Agric. Extension  100.0            80.3



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
A.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            30.3
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               75.2
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0               95.5
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              98.0          42.5
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            24.5
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            67.0
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0          95.6
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            36.3
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          20.8
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0         108.1
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply         130.0         130.0
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power                114.0         114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           158.9
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0         139.0
1867    1980  Brazil                           Education             32.0          31.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63,0            62.J
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0         125.Q
1924    1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0            55.6
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 54.0          54.0
1965 /1 1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport       90.0          90.0
1970 /1 1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            180.0         180.0
1989 /1 1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Devt.        250.0         250.0
2015 /1 1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           29.0  -       29.0
2016 /1 1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           60.0          60.0
Total                                               5,995.6 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  788.4
Total now outstanding                               5,207.2
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid            44.9              0.9
Total now held by Bank                              5,206.3
Total undisbursed                                                 2,950.2
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



AN11 i
-   .33 -                                                                   Pal. 3  f  14
A.  ITATDDIlT OF IC   VtRSTMZIfiS (as of 3Sten ab.r 30. 11I)
Yt tr1                                            0 b 1 i g o r                                               Type of  usinese                                    Amoun  tin US0  sillion
fear                                                                                                             I.c.r.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~La.  2quity  Total
1957                     Siee.. do  rasil Ci4. de  lerticidade                                          glectrical equipncnt                              2.00               -              2.00
1958                     Olinkraft. S. A. Callos.  a Papl                                               Pulp  and Paper                                   1.20               -               1.20
1958                     0. L. t. Plastic*o  do Dra.il. S. A.                                           AutootIve Parts                                   0.45               -              0.45
1958                     Willys-Overlnd do Ir-n11  S. A. - Indostrta o Cmeercio                         Motor Vehicles                                    2.45               -              2.45
1959                     Conpanhis Mineirs de Cieento Yortland, S. A.                                   Cemnt                                             1.20               -               1.20
1959                     Chapion Co one  S. A.                                                          Pulp                                             4.00                -              4.00
1966/1968/1972           Acne Villaras. S. A.                                                           Steel                                            8.09               1.93            9.93
1966/1969                Pap.1 a Ce.lloe, Catarion.-, S. A.                                             Pulp and 'UpV'                                    3.7e              3.41.            7.19
196711972                Ultrafertil, S. A. - Ind.stria a Co.errio do F-rtilioances                     Ferttlier*                                      8.22              3.03            11.25
1969                     P.troqul.loa U.nio, S. A.                                                      Petroch -itcal                                    5.50             2.88             8.38
1970                     Poliolefioas, S. A. Industri. e Co=rcio                                        Petrochexic.ls                                    5.50             2.88             8.38
1971                     O.Iteno.  S. A. Ind..tria a Coeac.i                                           Petrochemical                                    4.60              1.44             6.04
1971                     RIo Grand. - Co,p.nhit da Celolosa do Sul                                      Pulp                                             4.90               -               4.90
19i2/1975/1981           Co.panhia do Cioento Naci-o.l do Nins.                                         C-emet                                         1I9.14              6.70           175.84
1973/197411977/1981    Conpanhia Siderurgica da G-anboro - COSIGUA                                      Steel                                           76.97             11.22            88.19
1973                     C.pital Market Docolop-ent Fund - FUMCAP                                       Capital KMrket Devebopeent                       5.00               -               5.00
1973/1978                Eaprene de Dtsenvlvi,ento de Rocur-on Mi-raIs - CODEMIN  S. A.                 Nickel Mining and Refining                      85.00              8.34            93.34
1974                     Indu.trian Villares. S. A.                                                      levetors and Industrial Equipmnt                6.U0               -               6.00
1974                     fabzIc. do TecLdo Tatapo.  S. A.                                               TeatiIes                                        31.00               -              31.00
1975/1979                Capuav. C.rbonos Induotrias Ltd.                                               Carbon Black                                     6.18              1.19             7.37
1975                     O.iteno Nord-st.  S. A.                                                        Petroch.sicaln                                  10.00               -              10.00
1976                     Santista Ind.strla - Te.til do Nord.nte, S. A.                                 Teetile                                           6.45              1.00            7.45
1976/19S0                Tecanor S. A. - Tothil Catorinen.o do N.rdente                                 Tentilen                                         16.20              -              16.20
1977                     Frit S. A. Pr.d.ct- Mr,el.rgicee                                               Iron and Al-ni.Z Cacirngs                       20.00                -             20.00
1977                     Minaracac  8-  do Norte S. A.                                                  Mining                                           15.00              -              15.00
1978                     Cinetal Sldoengi. S. A.                                                        Iron and Stell                                    7.00             3.00            10.00
1979                     VolV  do Brasil MorOres   Velc.los S. A.                                      Motor Vehicles                                  60.00              5.00            653C.
1980                     berilg do Nordoeto S. A. - Malh..                                              Ready-nd. G-arents                               2.00               -               2.00
1980                     Send.  do Paer  S/A - Doenp.n  - Cricult.ro.  Ind..trx.                        pal.-Oil                                          3.50             1.00             1.50
a Conei. de  . Ool1ginosas
1980                     Vhilarrs Induntrica  do B..e S. A. - VIlASA                                    Iron end st.11                                    5.00               -              5.00
1980                     PPH - Coepan.hi  Ind.rtrl.l d. Polipropileno                                   Chemical. and Petrocheaicals                    15.00              2.00            17.00
1980                     Oestilarla Clanorto S. A.                                                      Che-Icals end Peicocheelcal.                       -               0.25             0.25
1980                     Sotave Aasoonil QOi.ica e Mineral S/A                                          Fertilioern                                      16.00             4.00            20.00
1980                     Poli..1 Potroquirica                                                           Cheiicala and Petrochenicala                    43.00              5.00            48.00
1981                     Irasllpar                                                                      Money and Capital KMrkets                          -                1.50            1.50
1981                     Conpanhi  SraB ilira de Agropec.aria - COY6APE                               Pond and Pood Processing                          5.50             3.00             8.50
1981                     triunfo                                                                        Che-i.le and Potroc8,onic.ln                    46.00              4.00            50.00
Total Grosn Co-nltontn                                                                                                        701.74             72.77           774.51
L.en Cancellation. Tecinationa. Reppeynt. and Salon                                                                           507.91             11.71           519.62
Total Coi...n t  No, Held by liC                                                                                              193.83             61.06           254.89
Total Undiab.raad                                                                                                             146.45             19.20           165.65



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of September 30, 1981 1/
As of September 30, 1981, there were 49 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two are expected to be com-
missioned by year-end 1981. A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast
due mainly to a substantial increase in the size of the transmission
works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Projezt:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Thirty-four of the 46 facilities
to be constructed are now operating.  Proposals for some expansion
and minor modification of project components and a postponement of
the closing date are beaing processed.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily.  The
execution of the items financed by the Bank will be completed
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35
.iNNEX LI
?ag- 5 sof 14
by the end of 1981. RFFSA's financial and operating performance
has been good during the first five months of 1981, due to continued
tariff increases and a decrease of about 10% (in real terms) of
operating costs. The loan amount has been fully committed.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) has suffered delays because of financial constraints
imposed by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds
for 1981 have been provided recently and works are being reactivated.
The 73 stations are now expected to be completed by 1984. The Loan
Closing date will be postponed accordingly.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Implementation of the Stage III project is
scheduled to be completed by December 1982. Achievement of this
objective, however, will require substantial resources in 1982 in
the form of new equity contributions from SIDERBRAS as well as the
raising of new external loans. In light of the shortfalls in the
level of SIDERBRAS' equity contributions in the past and the
company's already strained financial position (in terms of excessive
levels of long and short term debt), raising the necessary resources
may be difficult to achieve, with consequent further delays in the
Stage III project. This situation has been discussed with the
Government, SIDERBRAS, and COSIPA during meetings in Washington in
September 1981. At that time, it was agreed that a plan of action
would be submitted to the Bank in November 1981 which would specify
the steps to be taken to complete the Stage III project as scheduled
in 1982 as well as restoring the Company to a satisfactory financial
position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. COSIPA is facing severe financial difficulties
due to inadequate equity contributions from SIDERBRAS, excessive
reliance on short term borrowings, heavy debt repayment commitments
and high interest rates. This situation has been exacerbated in
1981 by operating problems with one of the company's blast furnaces
which has reduced production below 1980 levels and led to a loss for
the first half of the year.  As a result of funds constraints, imple-
mentation of the Stage III project has been slowed down considerably
and further substantial delays in completion are likely. This
situation has been discussed with the Government, SIDERBRAS and
COSIPA during meetings in Washington in September 1981. At that



- 3S -
ANNEX 1I
'Page 6 of 14
time it was agreed that a plan of action would be submitted
to the Bank in November 1981 which would specify the steps to
be taken to restore the Company to a satisfactory financial
situation and at the same time ensure the tirmely completion of
the Stage TII project.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Pclders Project:  US$23,0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date:  November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of works in several flood plain areas which
suffered heavily from floods in 1979. With respect to the
project works, construction of the irrigation and drainage
system and settlement in the Betume flood plain has been
delayed by the unexpected need to construct a new small dam
to control floods in a tributary river. Roads recently
constructed by the Government in the area of Brejo Grande flood
plain are acting as control dikes for irrigation purposes, so
previously planned project works may be excluded from the project.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The project, as redefined to take into account FEPASA's weak
financial position in 1976-78, is nearing completion. FEPASA's
operations continue to improve significantly. Freight traffic
increased 25% in 1980 compared to 1979. The railway has reduced
its operating cost by 12% in real terms in the past year due to
reduction in staff and improvement of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. PIhase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule.  The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing. storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fishertes.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II.
but activities related to land and inland fisheries have recently
shown good progress.



_ 37 7
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Sixteen sub-loans have been approved,
committing the full amount of the Loan for construction or
improvement of 6653 km of roads in twelve states.  One-fourth
of the work has been completed. Implementation has been very
slow, mostly because of the constant devaluation of the ORTN,
the monetary unit in which sub-loans are defined.  The project
is now being reformulated to reduce the scope, and/or provide
additional financing for 13 sub-projects in order to restore
BNDE/IBRD participation to its initial level. The project is
now expected to be completed by end 1983.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23.
1976; Effective Date:  September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. With the removal of constraints on the levels
of incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project is now progressing satisfactorily and the rate of
disbursements has risen sharply. Provided the current levels of
counterpart funding, project implementation, and consequent rate
of disbursements are sustained during 1982, project completion by
the current loan closing date should be substantially achieved.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31
1981. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. The agreed targets for con-
nection of low income households have been widely exceeded. Sub-
stantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE. In 1981, COELCE and COELBA will
not achieve the rate of return target agreed upon.
1302      Nutrition Research and Develo2ment:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981.  The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. Seventy-four percent of the loan is now disbursed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1981), commitments for the second loan began only in 1979. The
existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
temporary Government policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated
to the actual inflation rate have ended. The Government is now follow-
ing a revised monetary correction system under which the level of
indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation, in line with
the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrangements for monitoring
the adequacy of monetary correction have recently been agreed with
the Government. New commitments under this loan are now being
approved, and disbursements began in April 1981.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission F'roject:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the original closing
date of December 31, 1981.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by 18 months, and a reallocation of loan
proceeds to incorporate marketing, road improvement, and water
supply activities, was recently agreed.



_ 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977: Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Construction of plant buildings and erection of equipment are well
advanced, but some delays have been experienced in delivery of
locally ordered equipment which may delay the project completion
date by about eighteen months.  Commercial production is now
expected to begin in October 1982. The costs to complete the
project are expected to be about 15% below the appraisal estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977: Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project has been in operation from August
1980. During this period it achieved an average capacity utiliza-
tion of 81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several
plant modifications have been carried out to improve performance of
MAP and TSP plants.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December_31,
1982. Construction of the industrial training center is largely
completed and the commercial centers are in the design stage.
The Government is preparing a proposal to allocate funds not used
for hotel training schools to the occupational safety training
component. The rural training program has not been carried out
as planned, and unless prompt corrective action is undertaken by the
Government, the corresponding portion of the loan may be cancelled.
1488      Ceara Rural Development ProJect:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date:  August 7, 1978;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1984.  Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities and is
expected to be solved soon. Project completion is expected to be
delayed by about two years.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project administra;
tion. Several components, such as land tenure services, non-farm
rural enterprises, and agricultural cre.dit, show encouraging progress.
However, the pace of execution of other project components, most
notably, marketing, is still slow.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date.
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding the sub-project of CEKIG (one of the
three beneficiaries under the Loan), the last supervision mission
found that delay in project execution was now also due to financial
difficulties which originated in low tariff levels that gave CEKIG
a 7.9% rate of return on remunerable investment instead of the
minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian legislation. All available
funds were channelled to the Emborcasao hydro project which CEMIG
considered its first priority and current expectations are for a
2-year delay in project completion. The sub-projects of CELESC and
ESCELSA have similar problems, and project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years. Delays in providing counterpart
funds have hampered the execution of the projects of all these
companies. In July 1981, ELECTROBRAS arranged for the required
counterpart funds to 'be provided so that these projects can now
proceed satisfactorily.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8. 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982,
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because
of financial constraints imposed by the federal government. However,
these problems have been recently corrected and project execution
has been resumed after a satisfactory revision of the highway
rehabilitation component. The maintenance program in the state Of
Parana is progressing well.  The second phase of the weighing
station program will not begin until the first phase (under Loam.
1075-BR) has been comlpleted and the effects monitored. Project
completion could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6.__121,s
Effective Date: Octolber 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 75%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October 1982. The anticipated cost to complete the
project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.



- t41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
1563      Urban Trans-ort Project:  US$88.0 million loan
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 319
1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities invol-ved.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  Us$100.0 million loan of M   22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978: Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project imple-
mentation. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980. Early
local funding delays appear to have been resolved.  The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use
of consultants. Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of  uy  19
1978; Effective Date: December 5. 1978: Closing Date: December 31,L
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened.  The health component is proceeding smoothly;
however, the education and water supply components are far behind
schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979: Effective Date: July 9. 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement has recently been signed.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979: Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closina
Date: June 30, 1983.  The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. However, because
of initial difficulties, the project may be completed with about a
one-year delay.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding without major problems, but a delay of
six months and a cost overrun of 10% is expected.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Proiect:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; ClosinR Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very
close to first year targets and exceed second year targets. The
land titling and colonization components are progressing more
slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results. The
management of the project has become quite effective, and the
monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after a slow start due
to the change in Government.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to continuing delays in the release of
federal funds. Project administration has recently improved but
coordination among the entities involved in its execution is not
yet satisfactory and calls for close supervision. The agency
responsible for the village water supply component has not performed
adequately and is being replaced by another entity. The recommenda-
tions of the land tenure study are still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.  While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
being developed by the Government outside the project, in the
Brejo Grande sub-area may lead to the dropping from the project of
previously planned irrigation and drainage investments there. CODEVASF
is now reviewing proposals as to the number, location and management
capacity of silos and central rice processing mills. The monitoring
unit has been installed and is now operational.



- 43 -
ANN<EX 1:
Page 13 of 14
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The second feeder roads project provides
continuity to the program of secondary and feeder roads started
under Loan 1207-BR. Twenty-two organizations from 20 states and
one territory have applied for sub-loans.  Nine sub-projects have
been approved and it is expected that six more would be approved by
November 1981 and fully commit the loan. The project is being
reformulated to take account of the devaluation of the ORTN, as
explained for Loan 1207-BR, and now aims at constructing or
improving 4630 km of roads. Project completion is expected to
take place by the end of 1985.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date:  October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
now is advancing at a good pace and will be completed by the end
of 1983.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. The project is experiencing some delays because of inadequate
resources mainly due to low tariffs.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement are in the process of being
solved.
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of items financed by the Bank is well advanced, physical execution
is progressing on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about nine months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during Calendar year 80. Part of the delay is expected to be made
up for during Calendar year 81 and Calendar year 82. A substantial
impact evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project
should yield knowledge of educational determinants vital to other
work in the education sector.



- 44 --
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
ClosinR Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
19X4      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 5, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.



- 45 -                      ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHWEST REGION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(State of Mato Grosso)
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:       18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:       State of Mato Grosso (with the
assistance of the Bank/FAO
Cooperative Program) and
Federal Government
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:    May 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:   October/November 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:    June 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:          February 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:       July 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) All new extension offices, to be located so as to serve at least
500 small-scale farmers, to be operational by April 1, 1984
(paragraph 48).
(b)  EMPA-MT to publicize each year, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, the results of the proposed activities; to consult each
year with EMATER-MT and farmers' representatives before
establishing its annual research program (paragraph 49).
(c)  Adequate working capital to be provided for stocking and
operating the input supply post to be put into operation by
December 31, 1982 (paragraph 50).



- 46 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) That prior to construction of the last 18,000 tons of new storage
capacity and of weighing and drying stations, the Bank would (i)
be furnished with evidence of satisfactory utilization of similar
existing facilities, and (ii) receive a satisfactory updated
regional grain storage and drying plan (paragraph 51).
(e) School mapping exercise to be completed and satisfactory results
furnished to the Bank by September 30, 1982; a satisfactory
implementation plan for multi-purpose schools to be furnished to
the Bank by Septem'ber 30, 1982; results of the implementation of
the first multi-purpose school to be satisfactorily reviewed
prior to the initiation of the remaining two (paragraph 53).
(f)  An association responsible for operation, maintenance and
collection of water charges to be established prior to initiating
construction  of a rural water supply system in any given
community.  SANEMAT to provide routine maintenance of systems
installed (paragraph 54).
(g) A satisfactory manu.al for rural health attendants to be prepared
and provided to the Bank by September 30, 1982 (paragraph 55).
(h) A satisfactory construction plan and evidence that a community
council has been formed, to be provided prior to construction of
any community center (paragraph 56).
(i)  The federal government to ensure that adequate credit for working
capital and investment would be made available in a timely
fashion to project beneficiaries (paragrph 57).
(j) The state government to make operational the seed supply program
and to employ a coor.dinator for this program by September 30,
1982 (paragraph 58),.
(k) Contractual arrangments satisfactory to the Bank to be entered
into by GPC and all executing agencies (paragraph 66).
(1)  The executing agencies, PMU to develop and provide though SUDECO
to the Bank by September 30, 1982 satisfactory monitoring plans
and procedures (paragraph 67).



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION
NTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, PHASE II
Mato Grosso Rueal Development Proiect
2/                                                                                                                        FAd~~~  ROECT FINANCED NOFFASTRJCIUUO
A  K'                          ';I I Y                                                    _                   _                 ?Rb
V~~~ _,                           ;                     X                                                                                            0 ,  t1  .a-   Feebrw_= d pe he pveso
, :  .  .  X   .   ... >  -                 f  >4,,  |.Xx                                                                            .n w~~~~,  po ",.
i;  \   )  1   r  z   ~   r  P1) a 0 ol Fi IY g;  mpe o7   yJ              rto-re hogree F   ouds
I.~~~~3  'A  T    ~~~~~~~~..                             0   Ivo~~rg..reep   0-0SF
a0t, . t: :.:   tg    s     ' > rb.v.wsa A               ce, >/                      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  h-h "t
i~~~~~~~~1 K                                               IN |1- _.  d| EL                                                                           H v          ,.Frnneo   1Y,F'      Rslpoe sPI Y
/         /f t {1        p   a       A<S2to do Ceu sO   \0 '      pOA p do uere, p i (>                                                 -M rop   veorderoo
\ ~~~~~~~~~~~1 dj                         -A Le t.,gr                                  ju         g       ' / /Nsaehr\ e   sWrhue
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lr    Ni;vl                       eeseoe4s
:                N                                                                                                                   zzZ27eI,,, A,  - ,     -r
g  0   tr>LI $ 1-;i Q 00 0  0 i; ,    .   0,             gS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  C-  d  ~
ioi;                   N<                            g                                                      RoseLlsoslr,,prsre-           t 
__~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~d L --t_ _.    g.
141p3  \                                                                                Ags colloel~~~~~~~~~~~~41
(    ~~~~~~~>  /ELoU  -.     NAAcp              N    5'             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D    SU 
'g 'y ~  ~      oYTSE' 






______   ____ ______   ____ ___________ __________ ___   _______    ___________     __________IBRDRRD                                       5593
1 75 0                                    ~~~~~~~~~~58-                                                                            56'                    RA I                     SEPTEMBER 1981
in'   vOn                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTHWEST REGION
r, P"'. V. 1h.                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTEGRATED  DEVELOPMENT  PROGRAM, PHASE 21r
/  ~ ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~ ~ 6O ~~~~~~                Mato Grosso Rural Developmrent Project
-                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL APTITUDE  AND  RAINFALL
-~~~~~    ~ ~ ~~~  -.                                                                    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~Projectarecalboudary
I                      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                         - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Road to be paved
Iongord do, Serra                                                                                         Federal highvrays
-'--~~ ,u-"  -~~~                   --,~~,-,'-          - - ~  Stote highways and roads
y cy                   /
1500  r   7               *'~~~~~~~~~~~-----~~~~~I*      -~~~~~'                            v~~~~'    ~       ~      ~      ~        Novi,gable rwers
Parts
/ -~~~~~~~~. .~~~~~~-   .      I                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Municipal capitals
qo0lirv do Co 8eu..  Municipal bovndaries
/  '-                     RairadoBegren        l6.                                           SOy         -    --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~750   State bovndary
Pontes e Lacerdo,                  /                                          b                                                                                                         Frogr  am  re   boundary
,c ,i  roo                                                                   -nunc,                        __        lternot,onsol boundary
/        Arcputonqao',~                                                                        ~          '                                      Rimfall: lsohyels in -rilimeters
~~'   ~~~~  f.~~~~~-\  r'                                            .          Cuio ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural aptitude:
~~~iJOti~~~~~~~~~~~O  /  )                                            . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cla,ss. Suitable for annual and
G\"'Crande    ____Class 2,3. Suitable for perennal crops
.1                                                                   ' -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  vc~~~~~~~~~~~                             and arnnal crops w th som-e
0'                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Clans 4. Scitable for artificial pasture
iv'  /                -                                - I                        i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~nClass 5Sa. Suitable for naitural pasture
Caceres                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Class 5b, 6. Suitable only for forestry
'-V                                       .       e~~~~~~~essn~~~~~m~~~,  'I ~~~Pocone)
-:7  ~       ~          ~                      .              v       .Porto Cercado56
-?MArO l0-cr005o,
I)    20    30 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                               ugo   esl
I MATO GROSSO
ii    ThrrncnnumisnemimrsvWvuav801i<u,n  rn,,~u-,                                                       8DO         jSULr
nyrtr 0,500 a en onus 50 uu,r9 von/eva Th~~~~ 0o, ,uiiv,v 000 0,5                                                              f   At1CtCr0Tl11u~~A0/
un,a,ouevurv-,cvoupi  vii,,,,sioWOiunav5
uccoon, nvrj,4e,ervr 0 lv, Ou>OiOto 0 nvriroiv,vve,nnOv,,iOc/t~~~~~~~~iRuGQA



