 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14693

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                             Date Posted: 06/30/2015

                 Country: Indonesia
                           Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                    Yes    No
                           How many operations were planned for the                                  2
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                                  2
             Series ID: S144775
       First Project ID : P126162                                                 Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name: Institutional, Tax          Project Costs (US$M):                        300                   300
                          Administration, Social
                          And Investment (in
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                         300                   300
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy          Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                   11/20/2012
                                                               Closing Date:            04/30/2013            04/30/2013
           Sector(s):     Central government   administration (56%); General  public administration sector (19%);  Other
                          social services (13%); Compulsory health finance (12%)
          Theme(s):       Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (50%); Poverty strategy;
                          analysis and monitoring (13%); Tax policy and administration (13%); Participation and civic
                          engagement (12%); Social safety nets (12%)
      Second Project ID :P144775                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Institutional, Tax            Project Costs (US$M):                       400                 400
                          Administration, Social
                          And Investment (in
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       400                 400
       Sector Board:      Economic Policy             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                      Board Approval Date :                                   11/19/2013
             Cofinancers:                                      Closing Date:            04/30/2014            04/30/2014
           Sector(s):     Central government administration (50%), Other social services (30%), Compulsory health
                          finance (10%), Sub-national government administration (10%)
          Theme(s):       Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (30%), Poverty strategy,
                          analysis and monitoring (25%), Social safety nets (25%), e-Government (10%), Tax policy
                          and administration (10%)
Evaluator:                 Panel Reviewer:        ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Iradj A. Alikhani          Robert Mark Lacey      Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    This Review covers a series of two Institutional Tax Administration, Social and Investment (ISTANSI)
    Development Policy Loans (DPLs). According to the Program Document (PD1, para. 52) for the first operation,
    the objective of the series is to “support the Government of Indonesia’s reform efforts in: (i) strengthening public
    financial management (PFM); and (ii) enhancing poverty alleviation and service delivery efforts.” The PD (para.
    96) for the second operation (PD2) states the objectives as continuing “to support the Government’s development
    agenda, particularly in enhancing poverty alleviation and shared prosperity, and strengthening PFM for improved
    service delivery.”

    This Review is based on the first PDO statement, because of its greater clarity, and closer links to policy areas
    and intent of the operation.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    Until 2012, Bank budget support to Indonesia was through single multi-sector DPL series. From then on, the
    Government requested more focused support through three parallel DPL series, including the series of two
    operations reviewed here. The other two covered the financial sector and the investment climate, and logistics
    and have been completed. The INSTANSI series was initially conceived as consisting of two operations. PD2
    stated that consideration was being given to a third operation, but this did not materialize. The series, covered the
    following two policy areas (ICR para.12 and PD1 Table 6.), which were aligned with each objective:

    (i) Strengthening public financial management (PFM) through improvements in the medium-term results
    orientation of the budget process, the introduction of an enhanced automated budget and treasury system
    (SPAN) and ICT services, improved budget execution within Central Government, strengthened state assets
    management, improved Government accounting, audit, tax administration, and subnational fiscal management;
    and
    (ii) Enhancing poverty alleviation , service delivery and shared prosperity efforts through improved governance
    and institutional accountability, better measurement and targeting of the poor in social assistance programs,
    improved household-targeted poverty reduction programs, and community-based poverty reduction programs.

    PD2 repeats the same pillars (the word pillar is used interchangeably with policy area in the main text) in the loan
    program summary. Both operations share PFM as an objective. However, there is further specification of the
    other objective under the second DPL. Under the first operation the poverty objective (PD1, loan program
    summary) is defined as “Poverty Reduction and Service Delivery Efforts” (restated only as poverty reduction on
    p.48 of the main text), while under the second operation the definition is more specific: “Poverty Reduction: Social
    Assistance and Social Security Reform.” Intra series adjustments are discussed further below and in section 3b.

    There were eight prior actions for the first operation (ICR, Table 1a), five of which were related to the PFM
    objective (four covered budget execution and one the tax administration sub-objective), and three to the poverty
    reduction and public service delivery objective. The policy matrix also included “benchmark/milestone” policy
    actions that were part of the program, but not linked to the approval or disbursement of the Loan. There were 21
    such benchmarks as part of the first operations. They were either intermediate steps, such as draft documents, or
    were institutional in nature (and thus not strong largely irreversible reforms). Some covered certain
    sub-objectives for which there was not any corresponding prior action for the first operation. Others were
    intended to contribute to a trigger for the subsequent operation.

    Policies supported by the second operation were different from those envisaged at the outset. The reforms
    pivoted away from the PFM reform agenda, and gave social protection new prominence. The prior actions are
    also different from the proposed triggers. The original triggers were modified as follows:

    (i) PFM objective: two triggers related to the integrated financial management system (SPAN) were dropped
    while another one was modified, three others became benchmarks based on partial achievement, and the last
    two remaining triggers were achieved, with one on taxes split into two prior actions with the same overall
    coverage as the original trigger.
    (ii) Poverty alleviation and service delivery: there were seven prior actions, five of which were not previously
    specified as triggers, and the other two expanded or deepened an original trigger.

    A third operation was proposed in PD2. It was designed on the basis of five triggers and eight benchmarks in the
    first area and three triggers and six benchmarks in the second area, reflecting a pivot back towards the PFM
    agenda. The Government subsequently decided not to proceed with this operation.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    The two operations were approved, respectively, on November 20. 2012 and November 18, 2013. They were
    declared effective on December 14. 2012 and December 13, 2013 (dates not specified in ICR). Both IBRD loans
   were disbursed shortly after effectiveness, on December 21, 2012 and December 19, 2013. Both Loans closed
   on schedule, on April 30, 2013 and April 30, 2014. The loans of US$300 million and US$400 million were fully
   disbursed. There is no mention in the ICR of any financial contributions from other external partners, although a
   footnote to staff costing (ICR, p.25) indicates that “significant resources are from a number of trust funds and are
   not listed in these tables.” PD1 also raises the possibility of cofinancing, but this is no longer considered in PD2
   (respectively Tables 5 and 3) and did not in fact materialize.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial. The objectives were relevant to two of the eleven areas within the Government’s Medium-Term
   development Plan for 2010-2014, namely public sector and governance reform, and poverty reduction. There
   was an indirect link to the Government’s accelerated growth strategy (launched in 2011), which aimed for
   improved efficiency of public investments in infrastructure through more effective public expenditure
   management. Other specific relevant government strategies include the 2002 White Paper on PFM (which
   needed in the light of the findings of the 2011 Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability, PEFA , report) and
   various national poverty alleviation targeted programs (PD1, para. 61). According to the task team, these poverty
   programs were not subject to detailed assessment by the Bank, but nevertheless deemed appropriate as the
   basis for some of the reforms supported by the DPL series under review.

   The original program was broadly consistent with the 2009-12 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) that was still
   in place at the time of approval of the first Loan. This document anticipated thematic DPOs such as those
   reviewed here (Annex B3). However, the program did not tackle some areas identified specifically in the CPS
   (e.g., revenue mobilization, para. 75). The Program Development Objectives are also relevant to the public
   sector strengthening and poverty targeting policy areas of the 2013-15 CPS (as outlined in Annex 1 of the CPS),
   which was the relevant Bank strategy document throughout implementation of the series and at closing.

   However, the objectives were at a high level of generality, and went beyond what the series could be expected to
   achieve through the reform actions it supported.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Negligible. Various aspects of the design suffered from major shortcomings including a weak results chain, lack
   of continuity between the two operations, omissions in coverage, limited synergy between policy areas and
   horizon that was too short. The main issues are detailed below.

   First, the results chain was weak. How the actions supported by the operations were to lead to intended results is
   unclear. Moreover, these results might easily stem from factors exogenous to the program, thereby weakening
   attribution. The logical chain between supported actions and objectives was weakened by the latter’s degree of
   generality, especially in the case of the second objective. Moreover, rather than continuity, there is
   segmentation and lack of synergy between DPLs 1 & 2, as reflected in: (i) substantial changes in intermediate
   outcome indicators between the two operations despite unchanged outcome indicators; and (ii) despite the
   substantial revision of the program between the two operations, PDO indicators were not changed. Furthermore,
   the PDO indicators were high level ones with at best partial attribution to DPL actions.

   Second, the development objectives were inconsistent between the two operations in the series.

   The third issue concerns the choice of instrument:

    The series aimed to support policy related aspects of institutional reforms, and Development Policy Lending
   was thus an appropriate instrument However, there was a limited connection and direct synergy between the two
   areas covered, This is especially notable in the design of the second operation, which was based primarily on a
   poverty targeting agenda, with many PFM prior actions dropped, diluted or delayed to the proposed third
   operation.
    In view of the richness of the program and considering a realistic timing of various actions, three operations
   were necessary and should have been foreseen from the outset. This became apparent under the second
   operation, and a third one was then envisaged to complete reforms envisaged initially and to shift the focus back
   on PFM issues. This third operation was subsequently dropped as the newly elected government decided to
   focus on other priorities. An alternative approach would have been to implement individual inter-related but
   self-standing DPLs. PD1 effectively argues for such an approach when it notes (para. 137) that triggers for the
   second operation are “ideas that have recently emerged.” This seems inconsistent with a well-defined
   programmatic approach, which according to Bank guidelines normally consists of three operations (Good
   Practice Notes para. 21, p.12).
    The opportunistic approach of the second operation (ICR para. 22) entailing taking advantages of the
   evolving situation, when changes are quite drastic, seems at odds with the logic of programmatic lending based
   on a medium-term program. It would be best suited to stand-alone DPLs.

   The fourth issue relates to the choice of pillars and policy reforms. A broader public expenditure reform agenda
   should have logically included areas such as improving expenditure allocation and efficiency, as well as revenue
   which is now a concern for the new Government (tax to GDP ratio is about 12%, below that of middle-income
   comparators). The ICR (para. 39) recognizes this issue and characterizes tax reforms as modest. Within the PFM
   pillar, the reforms did not tackle the weakest areas identified by the 2012 Public Expenditure and Financial
   Accountability (PEFA) report (D and C ratings, PEFA Table 1). In some cases this was because the reforms
   would have required the operationalization of SPAN, which was an aim of the program initially, but dropped from
   the second operation because the platform was not ready. In other cases the reasons for not pursuing reforms in
   low PFM performance areas are less clear. Furthermore, while the removal of fuel subsidies was an important
   positive step taken outside the INSTANTI program, it was not attributable to it and resulted in the need to make
   major opportunistic modifications to prior actions. The PD2 indicates that reforms of social security that were
   added would have been implemented even in the absence of the DPL because they were decided by the
   Government outside the program.

   Lastly, DPLs require a sound macroeconomic framework and stability. There is a question whether the operation
   should have included stronger fiscal measures. There was no IMF program in place in Indonesia at the time. The
   International Monetary Fund (IMF) article iv Report dated November 1, 2013 expresses the following concern:
   “Recent market volatility and reserve losses highlight the need to deal decisively with macroeconomic
   imbalances and contain financial stability risks.” These risks are recognized in PD2 (Section II.B). It argues,
   nevertheless, that the macroeconomic framework is adequate for the operation (para. 37) as the Bank is dealing
   with macroeconomic issues through another operation (para. 36). Otherwise, the analysis of the macroeconomic
   basis for the operation in the ICR is quite limited (paras.1-2). Given its focus on public finances, and the fact that
   tax administration forms part of its title, the program should have included measures notably to increase
   revenues, which is a primary focus for Government now. Furthermore, while the issue of composition of
   expenditure was partly addressed by Government mid-way through the program with the elimination of fuel
   subsidies, key allocation issues remain. Notably, public investment, which averages 2% of GDP (4% including
   Regions and State Owned enterprises), is too low by international standards to sustain growth consistent with
   continued macroeconomic stability.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Objective 1. Strengthening public financial management - Modest

    Intermediate Outcomes :

   (a) Improved budget information transparency with improved rating for PEFA indicator 12 (multi-year
   perspective in fiscal planning, expenditure policy and budgeting). According to the task and ICR team, there was
   no quantifiable progress and the C+ rating remained unchanged.
   (b) Streamlined budget execution and increased flexibility of budget management with improved rating PEFA
   indicator 17 (recording & management of cash balances, debt and guarantees). According to the ICR, A rating
   (from B+) has been achieved. Given high initial starting point, this constitutes an incremental improvement.
   (c) Improved Government accounting and audit functions with central & local governments introducing accrual
   based accounting methods in 2015. Achieved with respect to accounting, as it required an operational SPAN
   which came on line in early 2015.
   (d) Increased tax revenues from domestic non-oil and gas sectors. The target of increased revenues between
   2011 and 2014 from 4.7% of GDP to 4.9% was not achieved (4.6% in 2013). The attribution of results to the
   program would be problematic since both GDP and tax revenues would be affected by factors exogenous to the
   program.
   (e) Strengthened M&E in planning and budgeting cycle. This was partially achieved (some of the objectives
   were for 2015, which are not yet available).
   (f) Enhanced PFM efficiency and effectiveness. According to the ICR, this was partially achieved (some of the
   objectives were for 2015, which are not yet available).
   (g) Modernized core tax system. The indicators chosen were related to online filing of VAT refunds for tourists
   and e-filing of individual tax returns, and therefore covered a small part of the tax reform agenda. These
indicators were partially achieved (ICR does not report 2013 data). The ICR (para. 39) also describes other
aspects of modernization of the tax administration system through increased use of information technology.
(h)      Full implementation of SPAN in all 177 Local Treasury Offices. The project team subsequently informed
IEG that the SPAN System was successfully running 100% of all transactions by February, 2015.

Outcomes:

The two PDO indicators, which remained unchanged throughout the series, were: (i) greater integrity and more
effective use and management of public funds, as measured by increases in the percentage of Central
Government ministries and agencies receiving an ‘unqualified’ audit opinion from 63% for FY2010 to 84% for
FY2013). and (ii) an increase in the percentage of total capital expenditure disbursed by end of the second
quarter from 18.1% in FY 2012 to 22% in FY2014.

The target in the first indicator was not achieved. As of end-December 2013, 76% of audits were unqualified.
Moreover, this result cannot be attributed to the program since there was only one prior action, related to the use
of accrual accounting and the implementation of internal audit standards. Moreover, this prior action became a
benchmark for future measures that would not affect 2013 results (PD2 para, Table 4).

Regarding the second indicator, the actual 2013 outturn was 18.5%, well below target and showing only a small
increase over the baseline. These intended results are at best partially attributable to reforms under the program.
Moreover, the target itself is an inadequate indicator of improved public sector management since capital
expenditures are only a small part of the total budget, and there were no actions or indicators related to recurrent
expenditures.

Progress on the reform agenda was, therefore limited There is no evidence of strengthened state asset
management or improved tax administration. Furthermore, important policy actions envisaged under the
program were modified, postponed or dropped, in most cases to give more time for the reforms to be formulated
and adopted (ICR Table 1.b): (i) regulation on costing methodology; (ii) budgeting based on policy performance
review of the previous year; (iii) let the line ministry manage its budget; and (iv) establish a professional
association of internal auditors.

Objective 2. Enhancing poverty alleviation and service delivery efforts - Substantial

The goals of the reforms as stated in the Loan Program Summaries of PD1 and PD2, are: “Improved governance
and institutional accountability, better measurement and targeting of the poor in social assistance programs,
improved household-targeted poverty reduction programs, (i.e.; Jamkesmas, health service fee waivers for poor
and near-poor households), and community-based poverty reduction programs (the National Program for
Community Empowerment, or PNPM).”

The goals stated in the first operation were modified in PD2 as follows: “Improvements in the design and
targeting of social assistance programs aimed at poor and vulnerable households, as demonstrated by the
comprehensive compensation package for the subsidized fuel price increase, and implementation of a new
national social security system (Sistem Jaminan Sosial Nasional, SJSN). This change involves specific emphasis
on the social security system and contains no mention of household and community- based targeted programs.

Intermediate outcomes :

(a) Improved poverty measurements & targeting with increased number of line ministries using the unified
database to identify program beneficiaries. Achieved, with the number of programs and ministries rising from
four to six. According to the task team, this accounts for all the major institutions concerned.
(b) Increased percentage of the poor having health insurance. Target of 48% from identical baseline of 43% was
surpassed (50%).
(c) Increased number of villages, kecamatan (sub-districts) and cities receiving social empowerment assistance
toward improved community-based poverty reduction programs. The target of a 5% increase over the baseline
was achieved.
(d) Expanded targeted compensation measures for the poor through increased issuance of the integrated social
protection cards disaggregated by male- and female-headed households. The target of 15.5 million households
was attained and that for female-headed households surpassed (17% compared to 14%).
(e) Implemented a participatory mechanism through which communities can update beneficiary lists for KPS.
Achieved.
(f) Reduced exclusion error of the bottom consumption decile for social assistance programs – as measured by
the share of potential beneficiaries receiving benefits. The values for the indicators reported in the ICR were
incorrect. According to additional information provided subsequently by the task team, their measurement as
   envisaged in the PD was not undertaken. Available information suggests that, at best, there was a modest
   improvement in the coverage of the poor by these programs.
   (g) Increased coverage and benefit levels for social assistance programs. The various sub-targets were
   attained. The expansion of scholarships for poor students from the baseline of 8.7 million to 16.6 million is
   especially noteworthy. Similarly, the number of households benefitting from conditional cash transfer doubled
   (from a base of 1.5 million).
   (h) Coverage of Jamkesmas members under new Implementation Agency for Social Safety (BPJS) Health
   system. While this was achieved (100%), it should be noted that the Universal Health Coverage (ICR para. 32)
   will only be fully available in 2019.

   Outcomes:

   The two PDO indicators which remained unchanged throughout the series, were: (i) increased proportion of
   social assistance programs aimed at poverty reduction to 4.5% from a base of 3.3%. This was not achieved – the
   proportion at closure was 3.7%; and (ii) increased proportion of targeted female headed households receiving
   social assistance aimed at reducing vulnerability. The target set was “greater than the 82% baseline“. The actual
   achievement was 88%, and can be attributed to actions supported by the program.

   Significant achievements not captured by the above outcome indicators include the implementation of a more
   comprehensive, integrated and well-targeted social support system, and increased social spending.

   The quality of service delivery continues to be adversely affected by unresolved social security program
   governance issues – for instance, the fragmentation of agencies remains unresolved (even though they now
   communicate better with one-another), due to resistance by vested interest against consolidation and
   rationalization.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The program benefited from substantial strategic relevance and substantial achievement of the second
   development objective. However, there were major design flaws, and relevance of design is rated negligible.
   There was also limited progress under the PFM objective, which is rated modest. Outcome is rated moderately
   unsatisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The present review has identified three risks: (i) policy reversal; (ii) threats to PFM achievements because of lack
   of SPAN; and (iii) further institutional reforms and increased expenditure allocations needed to sustain the
   poverty program achievements may be insufficient. The new Government has announced its commitment to
   sustain the reforms under the program and has also completed the removal of fuel subsidies. According to the
   project team, the Bank had anticipated that the full phasing out of fuel subsidies by 2019 would free up resources
   equivalent to 2% of GDP. Furthermore, there is continued dialogue with the Bank on the relevant issues. These
   factors make policy reversal unlikely. The reversal of PFM reforms appears similarly unlikely now that SPAN is
   operational. Finally, the sustainability of the poverty programs depends on continued institutional reforms and
   increased levels of public expenditures. In turn this is in part dependent upon increased fiscal revenues, which
   has been a challenge so far. In view of these factors, overall risk to development outcome is rated moderate.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    The program supported by the series was based on extensive prior dialogue, as well as analytical work and
   technical assistance. It also built on experience with previous single multi-sector Development Policy
   Operations (DPOs) and other Bank operations. It was also based on good collaboration with other
   development partners, notably the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and Japan, although the Asian
   Development Bank, which had supported previous DPLs through parallel financing, did not participate in this
   series.

   The 2012 decision (ICR para 9) to follow the multi-sector DPOs with three parallel series, gave greater
   sectoral depth to each operation and facilitated a focused dialogue. However, it may also have resulted in
   segmentation of policy dialogue on macroeconomic issues.

   The Program Documents do not contain a clear and unambiguous statement of objectives. Consequently, the
   increased focus on poverty reduction during the second operation and the much reduced emphasis of the
   PFM agenda are ad hoc responses to evolving government policy, rather than a logical, programmatic
   approach. Lack of clarity on objectives is accentuated by the ICR’s choice of a separate statement of
   objectives taken from the second Program Document. There would seem to be insufficient justification for
   maintaining the programmatic approach when fundamental aspects of the program were changing and the
   operation was becoming more opportunistic. The possibility of a third operation in the series, which did not
   materialize, further weakened the intervention logic. Another significant shortcoming of Quality at Entry was
   weak M&E which was not improved at the time of the second operation, or sufficiently changed to reflect the
   new emphasis.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The ICR provides a very limited and non-critical analysis of supervision (para. 51). It seems that field
   presence was a key enabling factor in sustaining the policy dialogue and taking advantage of emerging
   opportunities when they presented themselves.

   However, Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) were not filed for either operation. The
   significant shift in emphasis between the first and second DPL, as well as the Government’s decision not to
   pursue a third DPL could have justified reporting. So should have the fact that Government no longer wished
   to pursue a possible third DPL, which made it likely that the PFM reforms may be delayed or not
   implemented. In this respect, the operation’s closing date could have been extended by a year, so as to
   permit formal monitoring and supervision of measures whose impact would only be captured at the end of
   2014.

   It also appears that once the third possible DPL was abandoned the policy measures envisaged under that
   operation were not closely followed by the Bank (the ICR is silent on this point, but this was broadly confirmed
   by the task team). This issue may partly due to the apparent underfunding of the Bank budget (ICR Annex 1
   b) and reliance on trust funds to finance many activities, which still left gaps in terms of needed expenditures
   that they could not fund. This constraint was confirmed through exchanges with the task team.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   Borrower performance is assessed in this section since the operations were implemented by the Ministry for
   Economic Affairs (the coordinating Ministry) and the Ministry of Finance

   There was effective coordination between the two ministries, and with a wide range of line ministries and
    other counterparts (ICR paras. 45 and 46). For instance, the National Team for the Acceleration of Poverty
    Reduction took the lead on much of the poverty alleviation and related reforms.

    There was apparently good initial Government ownership of the reform agenda. Commitment waned under
    the second operation, as reflected in a slowing of reform implementation accompanied by dilution of policy
    actions. Nevertheless, the reduction of petroleum subsidies (a longstanding issue that was not part of the
    original program for this series)) was a politically courageous action, which created the fiscal space needed
    for increased social spending. This was complemented by strong policies, brought into the program under the
    second DPL, in favor of the poor in the form of the introduction of a social security system and widening social
    protection. Design shortcomings are not attributable to the Government.



  Government Performance Rating :                            Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Not Applicable

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   Responsibility for M&E was shared between Government and development partners, as well as various
   agencies. M&E design was weak and unstable from one operation to the next, in the sense that there were major
   modifications in indicators and targets. Four PDO indicators were specified, and they remained unchanged
   throughout the series. Their relationship to the reforms supported by the program was frequently frail. For
   instance, the choice of disbursement of capital expenditures, which constitute a small part of the budget, rather
   than overall spending, weakened the relevance of the results framework to the objective of improved PFM. Each
   operation specified seven different intermediate outcomes, and only had one in common. Some indicators were,
   at best, partially attributable to actions supported by the operations. An important intermediate indicator under
   the second DPL (expanded targeted compensation) lacked a baseline. Some other indicators were vague and
   should have been better quantified ( (e.g., increase in village etc. receiving social assistance). A large number of
   outcome indicators were targeted for achievement in the fourth quarter of 2014, well beyond operation’s time
   horizon, and were not measurable when the ICR was completed (October 2014). The ICR (para. 21) notes that
   PFM indicators did not measure either the “strength of the PFM system or its ability to enhance service delivery.”



b. M&E Implementation:

   The ICR (section 2.3) provides a limited assessment of M&E implementation. There is no discussion of how the
   changes in intermediate outcomes and introduction of new indicators affected M&E implementation, as they may
   have. Nevertheless, it appears that experience gained in earlier DPLs was built upon by the locally based Bank
   team to monitor the program through regular dialogue with counterparts. The Government also established
   committees to monitor specific indicators. According to the task team, there has not been any monitoring of
   indicators since the series closed. This is in part explained by many end-2014 statistics not yet being available.
   Similarly, the status of most reforms that were envisaged as triggers and benchmarks for the third operation is
   unknown.


c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR notes that monitoring of progress was through government agencies, which were also presumably users
   of the information. Furthermore, PFM indicators were apparently vehicles for development partner engagement.
  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    No safeguards policies were triggered by this Development Policy Operation.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    The PDs rate the overall fiduciary risk as modest based on progress made in improving public finance
    management. Furthermore, by including PFM issues the operation contributed to the reduction/mitigation of
    some residual risks. The foreign exchange situation was assessed to be generally satisfactory, and the Central
    Bank is audited annually. It’s last (2012) audit was unqualified.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:




12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately        Strategic relevance is rated substantial
                                                            Unsatisfactory    and design negligible due to major
                                                                              shortcomings. Efficacy is based on two
                                                                              objectives (as opposed to three in the
                                                                              ICR), one rated modest (in agreement
                                                                              with the ICR) the other substantial.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        Quality at entry and design were
                                                            Unsatisfactory    inadequate especially after the change
                                                                              in emphasis in second operation. More
                                                                              attention should have been paid to
                                                                              formally reporting the evolving
                                                                              government policies and proactively
                                                                              following reforms envisaged under the
                                                                              third operation.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately        Government commitment to PFM
                                                            Satisfactory      reforms waned as the series
                                                                              progressed. Government.
                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
   IEG draws the following lessons from the experience of preparing and implementing this DPO series:

        It is important to have consistent, clear and specific objectives (as noted in the section 2.a, this was not
         the case). This was further exacerbated by the fact that the ICR had a different interpretation of the
         objectives.
        Careful consideration to the internal coherence of a program supported by a DPL series and ensuring the
         appropriate number of operations is envisaged from the outset would help achieve significant reforms. In
         this case, in practice, there was limited synergy between the two pillars, one of which was heavily diluted
         at the time of the second operation. Furthermore, reforms being supported may need to be sustained
         over a longer period than that covered by the series. In such cases, a series of individual DPLs may be
         more appropriate than a programmatic series. Otherwise, programmatic lending may not be the best
         instrument when there is significant uncertainty surrounding policy options of the Government and
         stand-alone DPLs may provide greater flexibility and lead to better results.
        Systematic formal supervisory reporting can assist monitoring when there are significant modifications to
         the program. There were such changes in design between the first and second operation, and the
         cancelation of the third DPL had implications in terms of results and policy dialogue that could profitably
         have been brought to management attention in a timely manner.
        The date when an indicator is measured would need to be consistent with the operation’s implementation
         period. In this case, results were to be measured some 12 months after the closing date, and there was
         uncertainty over whether there would be a third operation. This could have been removed by extending
         the period of formal supervision (and hence the closing date) for a year later.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


   The ICR contains a lot of information that is not always readily understandable without consulting program
   documents and some issues are not well explained. Even though it provides sufficient detail to assess the series,
   the document suffers from weaknesses, including those listed below:

    The PDO in DP1 is modified in the ICR without sufficient explanation/justification and this affects the analysis
   of efficacy. The ICR reformulates the PDO as follows: “The overall goal of the INSTANSI DPL series was to
   assist the Government of Indonesia achieve its medium-term growth, poverty reduction and shared prosperity
   objectives, by supporting measures to enhance Indonesia’s capacity and institutions for targeting poverty
   reduction measures, introducing a major social insurance program, and enhancing the management of public
   finances for better service delivery.” This statement is taken from para.1 of PD2. As presented in the ICR, a
   higher level objective (overall goal) is introduced as part of the PDOs, while the specific objectives differ from the
   PDs’ and attributes two sub-objectives to the poverty pillar.
    The ICR ratings are not in accordance with the IEG/OPCS ICR harmonized Guidelines. For example,
   achievement of the PFM objectives is rated as modest, which, ceteris paribus, would indicate a moderately rather
   than fully satisfactory rating for outcome. Furthermore, indicators are deemed partially achieved even though
   progress was minimal and should have been noted as “not achieved,”
    There is little analysis of the impact of the macroeconomic framework on design, and no discussion of the
   framework’s adequacy. This omission is especially noteworthy in the light of concerns raised by the IMF in their
   2013 Article IV Report.
    The discussion of M&E design, implementation and utilization is sparse. It would have been especially useful
   to have considered the extent to which the M&E framework evolved as the focus shifted from one operation to
   another.
    As subsequently confirmed by the task team, the indicator pertaining to poverty targeting (intermediate
   outcome 3 second operation) was reported incorrectly. The updated information suggests that the intended
   results were only partially achieved.
    The discussion of Risk to Development Outcome (para. 46) largely consists of a narrative of what took place
   instead of a forward-looking analysis of the remaining ex post risks, consistent with the IEG/OPCS harmonized
   Guidelines.
    Some of the information provided is of marginal relevance/unrelated to the program and may be confusing.
   For instance, the fact that the Bank delivered an operation to help the government crisis preparedness does not
    affect its performance under the present series.
     Except for brief references in para. 17 and a footnote on p. 25, the ICR provides no explanation of the role of
    Trust Funds and how they may have supplemented Bank resources for preparation and supervision.
     The ICR proposes three lessons. Two are somewhat generic and concern the importance of analytical work
    and technical assistance, and the key role played by a strong government counterpart in coordinating multiple
    institutions. The other is not necessarily justified by the ICR analysis as it refers to cover how the three parallel
    series, increased government ownership and focus (given that the two other series were not being reviewed, this
    type of lesson would best suit a Bank Strategy completion report).
     There are typographical errors, acronyms undefined in text (e.g. KPK), and some repetitive passages (e.g.,
    the scope of the other parallel DPLs), and non-neutral adjectives.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
