                                       'OFFICIAL
                                      DOCUMENTS        },




                                                  LOAN NUMBER 8208-ID




                 Loan Agreement
(Institutional, Tax Administration, Social and Inv estment (INSTANSI)
                      Development Polic s, Loan)


                              between


                    REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA


                                and


       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                  AND DEVELOPMENT




                     Dated November 23, 2012
                                                                     LOAN NUMBER 8208-ID


                                    LOAN AGREEMENT


Agreement dated November 23, 2012, entered into between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on
the basis, inter ulia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank
therefore hereby agree as follows:


                ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
       integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
       the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
       Agreement.


                                    ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
       to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million United States Dollars
       (USS300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
       Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
       Agreement ("Loan").

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in
       accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
       (0.25%). The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than sixty (60) days after the
       Effective Date.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
       the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
       Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
       by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
       accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
       Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
       unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days. then
       the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section
       3.02 (e) of the General Conditions.

2.05. The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year.

2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
       Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07. (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the
              terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of
              the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
              withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest
              rate basis applicable to: (A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
              withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
              (B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
              outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the Variable
              Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and the Variable
              Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
              and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable
              Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
              or the Reference Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of
              the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
              or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.

       (b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
              accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion". as defined in the
              General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
              Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

2.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
      (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
      Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall promptly
      furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the
       Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.


                                ARTICLE III     —   PROGRAM

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
       end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

       (a)    the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
              exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework and the
              progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
       (b)     prior to each such exchange of views. the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
               its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
               Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request: and

       (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
               the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have the
               effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken
               under the Program including any action specified in Section 1 of Schedule 1 to
               this Agreement.


                        ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: A situation has arisen
       which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried
       out.


                    ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: The Bank is
       satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and
       with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02. The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement.


                    ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01. The Borrower's Representative is the Minister of Finance.

6.02. The Borrower's Address is:

       Directorate General of Debt Management
       Ministry of Finance
       Gedung Frans Seda
       Jalan Dr. Wahidin Raya No. 1
       Jakarta 10710
       Indonesia

       Cable address:                  Facsimile:

       FINMINISTRY             45799          (21) 381 2859
       Jakarta



                                                 -3-
6.03. The Bank's Address is:

       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
       1818 H Street, N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       United States of America

       Cable address:         Facsimile:

       INTBAFRAD               1-202-477-6391
       Washington, D.C.

AGREED at Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.


                                     REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA



                                     By


                                                                    Authorized Representative

                                                    Name:    Robert Pakpahan
                                                             Expert Staff of Minter
                                                    Title: of Finance on State Revenue
                                                             With Full Mandate as DGDM
                                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                     By


                                                                    Authorized Representative

                                                    Name:     JOSE P h Nj-           t`IL111-1-


                                                    Title:              C UN/712-i   Di (2,ECTDI-2.
                                         SCHEDULE 1


                      Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds


Section I.    Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:


Pillar 1: Strengthening Public Financial Management

1.       The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance, has issued a Ministerial Regulation
         (No.112/2012) simplifying and clarifying the practice of withholding funds for budget
         allocation ("Bintang").

2.       The Borrower has introduced a new General Ledger under SPAN using daily
         transaction conversions from the old General Ledger.

3.       The Borrower. through its Ministry of Finance. has completed the design and build
         phase for the new budget preparation system.

4.       The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, has issued and disseminated a
         Ministerial Regulation (No. 238/2011) on new accrual based accounting policies and
         chart of accounts.

5.       The Borrower has issued a Government Regulation (No.31/2012) for the
         implementation of Article 35A of Law 28/2007 and a Minister of Finance Decree (No.
         194/KMK.03/2012) on the sharing of data between DG of Taxes and DG of Customs
         and Excise, all of this to facilitate the sharing of third party information for improved
         tax compliance.


Pillar 2: Enhancing poverty alleviation and service delivery efforts

6.       The Borrower, through TNP2K, has signed four memoranda of understanding with the
         Coordinating Ministry of Peoples Welfare, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of
         Education and Culture, and the Ministry of Social Affairs, respectively, whereby the
         referred ministries agreed to use the unified database held by the TNP2K Secretariat to
         select the beneficiaries of the Raskin, lanikc,synas, BSM and PKH programs,
         respectively.
7.       The TNP2K Secretariat has completed a review of new institutional arrangements for
         the delivery of Jamkesmas, taking into account actuarial cost estimates and various
         scenarios for achieving universal health insurance coverage.

8.       The Borrower, through TNP2K, has prepared a roadmap for PNPM (including strategic
         directions and action plan) to guide the long-term implementation of PNPM and to
         strengthen the integration of PNPM with local governments.



Section II.   Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.     General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
       provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by
       notice to the Borrower.

B.     Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche,
       from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of
       the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

                   Allocations                       Amount of the Loan Allocated
                                                  (expressed in United States Dollars)
        (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                         300,000.000
        TOTAL AMOUNT                                          300,000,000

C.     Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until
       the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

D.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single
       Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out
       by the Borrower; and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
       framework.

E.     Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

        1.    all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
              account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

       2.     the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
              this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
              management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
F.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
     not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an
     amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
     Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the
     amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
     shall be cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is April 30, 2013.
                                        SCHEDULE 2


                                    Amortization Schedule

1.     The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
       percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment
       Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of
       the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the
       Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by
       multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b)
       the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be
       adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule,
       to which a Currency Conversion applies.


          Principal Payment Date                              Installment Share
                                                          (Expressed as a Percentage)
February 1, 2022                                                    2.17%
August 1, 2022                                                        2 . 22 0/a
February 1, 2023                                                      2.28%
August 1, 2023                                                        2.34%
February 1, 2024                                                       2.4%
August 1, 2024                                                        2.46%
February 1, 2025                                                      2.52%
August 1, 2025                                                        2.58%
February 1, 2026                                                      2.64%
August 1, 2026                                                        1 .71%

February 1, 2027                                                      2.78%
August 1, 2027                                                        2.85%
February 1, 2028                                                      2.92%
August 1, 2028                                                        2.99%
February 1, 2029                                                      3.07%
August 1, 2029                                                        3.14%
February 1, 2030                                                      3.22%
August 1 2030                                                          3.3%
February 1, 2031                                                      3.38%
August 1, 2031                                                        3.47%
February 1, 2032                                                      3.56%
August 1, 2032                                                        3.65%
February 1, 2033                                                      3.74%
August 1, 2033                                                        3.83%
February 1, 2034                                                      3.93%
August 1, 2034                                                        4.02%
February 1, 2035                                                      4.12%


                                               -8-
August 1, 2035                                                         4.23%                      ----1
February 1, 2036                                                       4.33%
August 1, 2036                                                         4.44%
February 1, 2037                                                       4.71%

       If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
       Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each
       Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

       (a)    To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first
              Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance as
              of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.

       (b)    Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on
              each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts
              determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a
              fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the
              table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original
              Installment Share") and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining
              Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
              date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts
              referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion
              applies.

3.     (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to any
              Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal
              amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and
              outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of
              withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing
              with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal.

       (b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any
              time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on
              or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
              paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of
              such billing system.

4.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency
       Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved
       Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any
       Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by
       the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior
       to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in
       the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction
       relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the
       Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

                                                -9-
5.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the
     provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each
     Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
                                          APPENDIX



Section I. Definitions

   1. "Bintang" means the practice of inserting an asterisk (hintang) on budget lines to denote
      reservations on the allocation of that budget line.

   2. "BSM" means Beasiswa Si swu Miskin, the Borrower's scholarship program for students
      from poor households.

   3. "Coordinating Ministry of Peoples Welfare" means Kementerian Koordinator
      Kesejahteraan Rakvat, the Borrower's Coordinating Ministry of Peoples Welfare, or any
      successor thereto.

   4.    "DG of Customs and Excise" means Direktorat Jenderal Bea dun Cukai, the Borrower's
        Directorate General of Customs and Excise of the Ministry of Finance, or any successor
        thereto.

   5. "DG of Taxes" means Direktorat Jenderal Pajak, the Borrower's Directorate General of
      Taxes of the Ministry of Finance, or any successor thereto.

   6. "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:

        (a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or international
               financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association has
               financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association has financed
               or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant:

        (b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC. Rev.3), published by the
               United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or
               any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
               designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:

                         Group             Sub-group           Description of Item
                         112                                   Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                   Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
                                                               refuse
                         122                                   Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                                               not containing tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                   Radioactive and associated
                                                               materials
                         667                                   Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                                               stones, unworked or worked
                  718                718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof
                                                        fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                                        irradiated, for nuclear reactors
                  728                728.43             Tobacco processing machinery
                  897                897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                                        group metals (except watches and
                                                        watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                                        silversmiths' wares (including set
                                                        gems)
                  971                                   Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                                        gold ores and concentrates)

   (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
          consumption;

   (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
          prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which
          the Borrower is a party;

   (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
          Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
          and

   (0     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or
          coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other
          recipient of the Loan proceeds. without the Borrower (or other such recipient)
          having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address
          such practices when they occur.

7. "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
   Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012 with the
   modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

8. "General Ledger" means the Borrower's main accounting record of financial accounts
   and statements.

9. "Government Regulation" means Peraturan Pemerintah. a regulation of the government
   of the Borrower.

10. "Jamkesmas" means Jaminan Kesehatan Masyarakat, the Borrower's health insurance
    program, or any successor thereto.

11. "Ministry of Finance" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, or any successor
    thereto.




                                         -12-
12. "Minister of Finance Decree" means Keputusan Menteri Keuungan, a decree issued by
    the Minister of Finance of the Borrower.

13. "Ministry of Education and Culture" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and
    Culture or any successor thereto.

14. "Ministry of Health" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health or any successor thereto.

15. "Ministry of Social Affairs" means the Borrower's Ministry of Social Affairs or any
    successor thereto.

16. "PKH" means Program Keluarga Harapan, the Borrower's conditional cash transfer
    program for poor families as said program is referred to in the Borrower's Presidential
    Regulation No. 29 of 2011 (as updated to the date of this Agreement), or any successor
    thereto.

17. "PNPM" means Program Nasional Pemberdavaun Masyarakat Mundiri, the Recipient's
    National Program for Community Empowerment. as described in Perpres 13/2009, as the
    same may be amended or updated from time to time.

18. "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
    growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
    letter dated October 5, 2012 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
    commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in
    support of the Program during its execution.

19. "Raskin" means Berus Miskin, the Borrower's rice for the poor program or any successor
    thereto.

20. "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category
    entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of
    Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

21. "SPAN" means Sistem Perbenduharuan dun Anggaran Negara, the Borrower's
    integrated financial management system.

22. "TNP2K" means Tim Nasional Percepatan Penanggulungan Kemiskinan, the Borrower's
    National Team on Accelerating Poverty Alleviation or any successor thereto.

23. "TNP2K Secretariat" means the secretariat of the TNP2K.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
       entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.     Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
       Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
       Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
       relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
       modified to read as follows:

               "Section 5.06. Plans; Documents,' Records

                       (c)     The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices.
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
              two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
              representatives to examine such records."

6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
       modified to read as follows:

               Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

                       (c)    The Borrower shall prepare. or cause to be prepared, and furnish to
               the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. a report of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
               Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective
               obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes
               of the Loan.
7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as follows:

             -`Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the
            Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan
            Agreement. -

     (b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is modified to
            read as follows (and all references to "Project - throughout these General
            Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):

            "'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of
            which the Loan is made."
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
