Report No. PID6590
Project Name             Trinidad and Tobago-Postal Service Reform Project (@)
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                   Public Sector Modernization/Management
Project ID               TTPE40108
Borrower                 Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
Beneficiary              Users of the Postal Service
Implementing Agency     Ministry of Public Utilities, Private Operator
Financing Plan
IBRD:                            US$11.40 million
Government of Trinidad
and Tobago:                      US$ 12.63 million
Total Project Cost:              US$23.03million
Appraisal Date           July 1998
Date of Board            October 1, 1998
Date of Effectiveness    August 12, 1999
Date of PID              March 12, 2002
1.      Background:  Trinidad's Post Office (PO), a division of the Ministry of
Public Utilities, is characterized by significant inefficiencies, poor
quality of service and continued provision of financial cover by the
Government for its operating loss, despite the market guarantee provided by a
wide monopoly.
The Government considers the PO to be an essential component of the national
infrastructure that facilitates and supports economic growth and social
development. The Government also considers the Post Office to be one of the
poorest performing public enterprises in the country. The Government is no
longer prepared to cover the operating losses of the PO, while the public has
moved away from using the services of PO, resorting to far more expensive
alternative communications media. If reformed properly, the postal service
could be a major player in the growing communications industry in the
country.
It could not only provide a reliable communications network to all citizens,
but also support the communications linkages that are needed in trade and
commerce more effectively and cheaply. Several countries, including low
income and middle income countries, have turned around their postal service
to a profitable, market responsive operation. The Government Trinidad and
Tobago plans to do the same through the reform program.
2.      The Government of Trinidad, through a comprehensive diagnosis and
sector study by the Ministry of Public Utilities, identified major sector
issues and constraints. The study results, together with subsequent Bank
sector review, led to the formulation of a strategy for the postal sector.
3.      The main issues underlying the need for reform in the sector are as



follows: (i) heavy operating losses of PO is a significant fiscal drain; (ii)
poor quality of service has led to low public confidence; (iii) inefficient
operation, partly due to inefficient logistics and overstaffing, has led to
low productivity; (iv) under-investment in and neglect of the postal network
has hindered sectoral development; and (v) institutional capacity is weak.
4.      The Government's strategy aims to make rapid improvements in market,
financial and operating performance of the Post Office. In doing so, the
Government plans to distance itself from the operational aspects of the PO,
limiting its role to that of the policy-setter. To accomplish this, the
Government will involve the private sector in the management, operations and
ownership of the Post Office. The Government has a two-phased approach to
private sector participation in the Post Office, namely: (i) a management
partnership for a five-year period to improve the performance of the post
office, undertake rehabilitation of the network, strengthen the network
through selective investments and introduce modern technology, and
consequently improve the value of the Post Office; and (ii) at the end of the
management contract, sale of a substantial portion of the Post Office to a
strategic investor with or without initial public offering of shares of the
Post Office.
5.      The Government's immediate strategy for the rehabilitation and
development of the postal sector (in the first phase of the reform) is as
follows: (i) Undertake a comprehensive postal reform. The reform program
includes the following main components: policy reform, institutional reform,
commercialization, and technological reform. (ii) Increase the role of the
private sector. The Government recognizes the benefits of private sector
involvement as a tool to improve the efficiency and quality of service,
provide much needed investment capital, and supplement the lack of
institutional capacity within the PO. Private sector involvement would be
encouraged in: (a) franchising of post offices; (b) management of postal
operations and postal service development; and (c) development of parallel
private operators, particularly local (regional and national) operators.
6.      Project Objectives:   The project's development objectives aim to
ensure: (a) sustainable improvements in the market attractiveness of postal
communications services provided by TT Post to all citizens of the country,
and (b) reductions and elimination within three years of net losses by Postal
Service.
7.      Project Description:   The project consists of five components:   (i)
Network Rehabilitation which includes the replacement, refurbishment and
rehabilitation of existing buildings. (ii) Institutional Development which
includes the fees to the management operator and cash "in-kind" training and
back office systems provided by the management operator. (iii) Resource
Strengthening and Modernization which includes all the physical plant and
equipment required to upgrade and modernize the postal sector. Included are
vehicles, counter automation, scooters, surveillance equipment, information
systems, modern cancellers, culling/facing machines, registry automation,
sorting systems, private boxes, collection boxes, inventory, and operations
and maintenance. (iv) Labor Retrenchment Assistance which is the government-
financed Voluntary Separation Employment Program (VSEP). (v) Monitoring Unit
which will establish a Monitoring Unit, which will assist the government in
its oversight of the management operator's performance.
- 2-



8.      Project Cost and Financing:   Total project costs are expected to be
approximately US$22.13 million, of which IBRD is financing US$11.4 million,
the Government is financing US$12.63 million.
9.      Project Implementation:   A Project Management Unit (PMU) is
responsible for the overall project management and coordination. The PMU
coordinates annual project reviews, prepare and submit quarterly project
progress reports, and prepare disbursement applications. The PMU reviews
designs, and assists TTPost in ensuring the timely finalization of contracts
for technical assistance consultancies. The PMU maintains a consolidated
account of all expenditures under the project. TT Post (the corporatized
postal entity) is the executing agency for the project. It provides to the
PMU: (a) quarterly reports on the physical and institutional components of
project implementation; and (b) annual financial statements on the operations
and financial position of TT Post. TT Post maintains proper records and
accounts to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices, the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the project. It also
provides within six months of the end of each fiscal year an audit report
prepared by auditors satisfactory to IBRD.
10.     Project Benefits:   Since services of PO are utilized by a wide segment
of the population, improvement and development of the postal service should
have tremendous benefits for the nation as a whole. By supporting the
development of PO into an efficient, market-driven, high quality provider of
postal communication and financial services, the project would benefit the
following target populations: (i) consumers, by providing them with a
reliable, low- cost, high quality and market-responsive portfolio of postal
services. In particular, the major beneficiaries are those who do not have
communications alternatives, e.g. rural and low-income communities; (ii)
Government, through reduced fiscal burden of supporting a large, loss-making
enterprise. It is expected that the operating subsidy will be gradually
reduced and eliminated by year 3 of the reform, and from year 4, the postal
corporation would contribute about TT$ 61 million to the treasury in taxes;
(iii) local businesses, by providing the mass mailers (publishers, news
media, advertisers, bill distribution and collection, etc.) a reliable, low-
cost communications medium and by reducing the amount of their working
capital tied up in the mail system; (iv) labor, through increased training,
improved working environment and practices, and introduction of performance
linked rewards; and (v) private sector, through opportunities to participate
in the provision of postal communications services and value-added services.
11.     Project Sustainability:   Sustainability of project benefits will depend
on the management contractor's adherence to performance improvement targets,
including transforming the Post Office into a self-financing corporation
within 5 years. Incentive structures are designed in the contract to
minimize this risk. Potential private operators were consulted prior to
finalizing the bid documents in order to be realistic with performance
improvement targets, especially within the context of Trinidad and Tobago.
In addition, over medium and long terms, sustainability of benefits also
would depend on further private sector partnerships in more value-added
businesses such as hybrid mail.
12.     Environmental Assessment:   This project has been classified as category
"C", as it is not expected to pose any environmental risks.
13.     Poverty Category.   This project does not have a direct poverty
-3 -



reduction objective.
14.      Project Objective Categories.    Public Sector Modernization (PB).
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
- 4-



