Document of
The World Bank
Report: 18157 - TT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$14.85 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR A
POSTAL SERVICES REFORM PROJECT
February 25, 1999
Finance, Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Sector Unit
Caribbean Country Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 1998)
Currency Unit = TT$
1 TT$ = US$0.16
1US$ = TT$6.25
FISCAL YEAR IS: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                                        Country Assistance Strategy
CODE                                       Committee on Development Effectiveness
DMA                                        Delegated Management Arrangement
EMS                                        Express Mail Service
GoRTT                                      Government of the Republic of Trinidad and
Tobago
IDF                                        Institutional Development Fund
JGF                                        Japanese Grant Facility
LACI                                       Loan Admi
LIL                                        Leaming and Innovation Loan
LTA                                        Long Term Agreement
NZPIL                                      New Zealand Post International Limited.
PDAG                                       Postal Development Action Group
PIU                                        Project Implementation Unit
PMR                                        Project Management Report
P0                                         Post Office
PPF                                        Project Preparation Facility
PSB                                        Postal Savings Bank
RIC                                        Regulated Industries Commission
T&T                                        Trinidad and Tobago
TTPost                                     Trinidad and Tobago Postal Corporation
UPU                                        Universal Postal Union
VSEP                                       Voluntary Separation Employment Package
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Team Leader/Task Manager: Anil Kapur



Trinidad and Tobago
POSTAL SERVICES REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives ..........................................................3
1. Project development objectives .......................................................                            3
2. Key performance indicators ..........................................................3
B. Strategic Context ..........................................................3
1. Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project .................................                              3
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy .........................................                             4
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices ........                                      8
C. Project Description Summary ..........................................................9
1. Project components ...................................................9 ..9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .............  11
3. Benefits and target population .........................................................                         12
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .....................................                            13
D. Project Rationale .........................................................                                                   13
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ......................                                13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies .........................................................                                15
3. Lessons learned  and reflected  in proposed  project design .....................                                16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................   17
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project ..........................................                          18
E.  Summary  Project Analyses ......................                                ...................................          18
1. Economic ...................................................                                                     18
2. Financial ...................................................                                                    19
3. Technical ...................................................                                                    19
4. Institutional ...................................................                                                19
5. Social ...................................................                                                       19
6. Environmental assessment ...................................................                                     20
7. Participatory  approach ...................................................                                      20



F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................................................                                                               20
1. Sustainability ...........................................................                                                          20
2. Critical risks ...........................................................                                                           21
3.  Possible  controversial aspects ...........................................................                                         21
G. Main Loan Conditions ...........................................................                                                                   21
1 Conditions of effectiveness ...........................................................                                              21
2. Others ...........................................................                                                                   22
H. Readiness for Implementation ...........................................................                                                           22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ...........................................................                                                          22
Annexes ...................................................................................................................
Annex 1 Project Design Summary ...........................................................                                                            22
Annex  2   Detailed  Project Description  ................................................                                         ...........        27
Annex 3  Estimated Project Costs ...........................................................                                                          30
Annex 4 Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary ....................................................   31
Annex 5  Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities .                                                                 ...................   35
Financial Summary   ....................                                  .......................................                  37
Annex 6  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .......................................   38
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ............................   40
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ............  41
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds ......................................................   42
Annex  7    Project Processing  Budget and  Schedule ...............................                                           .................      43
Annex 8  Project Implementation and Documents in Project File .........................   44
Annex 9  Statement of Loans and Credits ...........................................................                                                   47
Annex  O Country at a Glance ...........................................................                                                              49



Trinidad and Tobago
Postal Service Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Date: February 16, 1999                              Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Anil Kapur
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos  Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: TT-PE-40108  Sector: Private Sector      Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Investment Loan                  Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data               [x ] Loan       [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 14.85 million
Proposed terms:                       [X ]  Single currency
Grace period (years):    5 years    [X ]  LIBOR
Years to maturity:    15
Commitment fee:    .75%
Front end fee:    1%
Financing plan (US$000s):
Source                                                    Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                8,230.0             ---             8,230.0
IBRD                                                      3,160.0           11,540.0         14,700.0
Japanese Grant Financing                                   110.0              ---               110.0
Total                                                    11,500.0           11,540.0         23,040.0
Borrower: Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Ministry of Public Utilities
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/USS000s)        1999          2000         2001      2002      2003
Annual                                          2,880.0        7,365.0     3,565.0     620.0      420.0
Cumulative                                      2,880.0       10,245.0     13,810.0  14,430.0  14,850.0
For Guarantees:                                 []   Partial credit
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:             [    Yes              [ ] 
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 5 years. Expected effectiveness date: May 1999; Closing date: December 31, 2004






3
A:  Project Development Objectives
1.    The proposed postal service reform project's development objectives are two-fold:
(i)  Greatly improve postal service by expanding its coverage and quality, achieve major
efficiency gains and introduce new products and services in response to growing
client needs. Extremely poor service quality and coverage would be replaced by
faster, more secure mail delivery for almost all citizens, with an increase in the variety
of services provided.
(ii)  Increase private sector participation. Two separate actions will be undertaken to
increase private sector participation. Firstly, the management and operations of the
existing post office will be transferred to the private sector in two phases. During
Phase 1, a Delegated Management Arrangement (DMA) in the form of a
performance-based, incentive management contract that will lead to private
management of the newly corporatized post office; and in Phase 2, the deepening of
the involvement of the private sector in the form of a Long Term Arrangement
(LTA). Secondly, there will be further deregulation of postal products, with new
private operators entering the market.
2.    The key performance indicators for these objectives are:
(i)  The transformation of the present post office, a government department, into a
commercially viable and responsive corporation. The transformation would result in
the increased use of per capita postal services, an elimination of annual fiscal transfers
in the range of TT$10-15 million, an estimated 40 percent reduction in manpower, the
delivery of mail to 90 percent of the country within 24 hours of posting (and within
48 hours in more remote areas); a major improvement in customer satisfaction; and a
close to universal mail delivery to homes and businesses. The newly corporatized post
office would include new services such as money transfer facilities, access to fax
machines, and payment of utility bills.
(ii) Agreement with a new international postal operator that will achieve the
performance indicators outlined above. The key performance indicators agreed to
between the GoRTT and the private operator include significant improvements in
universal service, customer satisfaction, transit time, total revenues, and net income.
In addition, the deregulation of the domestic postal market may lead to at least two or
more new private operators, particularly in the courier services market. Some of the
many (about 15) international courier operators can be expected to broaden their
domestic operations as the mail monopoly is reduced.
B:  Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by project. Date of
latest CAS discussion, 03/30/95. Since 1992, two successive Governments have been making
progress in redefining the scope and reducing the size of the public sector. Despite these efforts,
public sector employment is about 25% of total employment compared with a combined
employment of only 20% for the agricultural, manufacturing and mining sectors. The structure



4
of public employment remains bottom heavy in spite of recent attritions. In addition, less
progress has been accomplished in strengthening the capacity of the public sector as it continues
to be centralized and lacks a client-oriented focus. As such, enhancing the efficiency of public
management and strengthening the delivery and quality of public services remains a key priority
of this Government.
2.   The Governnent's preferred strategy is to implement reforms in a phased manner in order
to minimize the potential destabilizing political effects. In addition, the Government does not
have adequate technical skills and institutional capacity to undertake a comprehensive reform at
this stage. Therefore, the Bank approach is to closely collaborate with the development partners
active in T&T, such as IFC, the IDB, the European Union, the IMF, and the civic society, in
supporting the Government with highly selective Non-Lending Services (NLS), Technical
Assistance Loans (TALs) and small focussed investment projects. To this end, the Bank is
focused on supporting the Government in: (i) Modernizing the public sector (e.g. proposed
private management of postal services and water, strengthening the regulatory frameworks in oil
and natural gas, power and telecom, undertaking judicial and civil service reforms, implementing
the on-going strengthening of the Central Bank and the financial system, and the restructuring of
the Tourism Development Corporation; (ii) Reducing poverty and developing human resources,'
and (iii)Eensuring environmentally sustainable growth.
3.    The proposed postal reform project is an integral component of the accompanying CAS
as it: (i) creates a favorable policy environment for private sector participation; (ii) refocuses the
role of the public sector; and (iii) improves infrastructure services. The Government has
deregulated the postal market allowing for greater private participation, has refocused the role of
the public sector from owner to that of an overseer, and is embarking on improving the efficiency
and effectiveness of postal services. These actions will also help to reduce the annual fiscal
transfers (though small) in covering operational losses and in reducing the size of public
employment.
4.  In addition to supporting these objectives, the proposed project complements the Bank's
assistance program in that it is selective, small, and front-loaded. The size of the proposed loan
is small and many of the policy actions have already been undertaken by the Government.
5.    Main sector issues and Government strategy: Prior to the creation of the new postal
corporation (under Postal Act 1999), the Trinidad and Tobago Post Office (PO) and Postal
Savings Bank (PSB) were divisions of the Ministries of Public Utilities and Finance respectively.
Their services were both unreliable and of poor quality; so poor that postal demand was
repressed and stagnant. For example, Trinidad and Tobago's per capita volume of mail usage in
1996, was less than half that of the Bahamas, Barbados, and the Leeward Islands, and well below
that of Jamaica. It had grown hardly at all during the 1990's, in spite of an expanding economy,
and was fast losing market share in the faster-growing segments of its industry; parcels and
express mail service (EMS). Because of the PO's poor service, 15 courier firms were servicing
the nation, reducing the PO's share of the international EMS market to about 5 percent. A recent
spot check by consultants found parcels still to be processed six weeks or more after arriving
from abroad. Not unsurprisingly, the PO's revenues from its parcel service had been declining
for years. According to UPU's 1996 data, the parcel usage was so low that the average T&T
citizen could be said to have mailed only one parcel in his lifetime (per capita mailing of parcels



5
in comparable countries was usually between a hundred and a thousand times more frequent than
that of T&T). While the quantitative evidence is less, the security of the system was equally
poor. Members of Parliament were deluged by complaints from elderly Trinidad and Tobago
citizens who had not received remittance checks mailed from abroad. The Minister responsible
noted--after mentioning the many complaints of non-receipt of mail, tampered packages, and
missing material--that there was a "total lack of confidence in the way the present service has
been provided."
6.    As a result of its poor service, the PO's customers were increasingly becoming restricted
to public utilities (55 percent of revenues) and government and financial institutions (35 percent
of revenues), that used the system for billings and other mandatory transactions. Given the poor
security of the system, the mail was mostly one way--from the utilities, government, and banks
to individuals, but not vice versa. It was a courageous consumer that trusted his utility payment
to the PO. Most preferred to wait in long, monthly lines to pay their bills directly.
7.    The service was not only poor and insecure, it was restricted as well. Transport and
financial constraints led delivery schedules to drop from twice daily to daily, to (recently) much
less than daily. Many new residential areas had no mail service, since the financial constraints
forced the PO to freeze mail-carrier positions, and union rules prohibited more than 500
deliveries per carrier "walk." Many rural, and even some suburban, sites with poor roads
received no service. Thus almost half of first class letters received were mailed to "general
delivery;" i.e., picked up at the post office.
8.    The postal savings system was equally defunct. Not only were almost half of its savings
accounts inactive--accounting for 40 percent of the PSB's deposits-- their average size was quite
small. Even as a ratio of per capita GNP, the average PSB account size was between one third
and one tenth the account size of other countries with postal savings systems. This is
understandable, since the average interest rate actually paid was about 1.5 percent.
9.    Declining or stagnating demand and poor service had led to poor utilization of assets and
low levels of labor productivity. In 1996, T&T had 76 post offices and 161 postal agencies; and
30 percent of them received two or less customers each day. Based on its product mix and
volume, a consulting firm retained by the Government estimated that the PO should be able to
reduce its workforce by about 40 percent. In 1993, mail carriers in Port-of-Spain (the capital
city) were delivering on a daily basis between 115 and 308 items (an average of 170), an
extraordinarily low number for an urban community. Carrier routes were both designed and
assigned in an arbitrary manner; the workload of carriers thus varied greatly. The financial
constraints suffered by the PO had led to a deferral of virtually all capital outlays The system--
from counter processes to mail and parcel registration; from most financial recording to
personnel files--was almost wholly manual, with automation virtually nonexistent. The buildings
used by the PO are mostly old and inappropriate; some are close to a state of collapse. A large
percentage of the transport fleet was purchased in the early 1980s; less than half was in service at
any one time.
10. This situation has led to repeated losses by the PO. During the 1990s, the system had
annual net deficits that varied from TT$10-16 million, about 0.2 percent of GDP. Revenues
provided less than two-thirds of its current outlays. In 1997, the operating deficit had increased to
about TT$28 million, mainly due to decline in revenues. This further exacerbated the problem



6
and continued the downward spiral in service and quality. The Government's decision to both
contain its subsidy and freeze staffing (wages being, by far, the largest cost item) has led to a
deferral of maintenance of buildings, transport fleet renewal, training, and major equipment
procurement. Equally important, a consulting firm retained by the Government to assess the PO
recommended that capital investments of almost TT$150 million (about US$24 million) will be
required if the postal system is to be modernized. This is about three times the PO's annual
revenues.
11.   The Government's reform strategy aims to improve significantly the efficiency, coverage,
and security of the postal system. It has decided these goals cannot be met without major
changes in the policy framework, management structure, and role of the public sector. The
Government has decided that it will distance itself from the operational aspects of postal service,
revising its role from one of operator and financier to one of policy setter only. The relinquished
roles will be assumed by the private sector, which is not only expanding its present activities,
given a more benign and supportive environment, but initially managing the activities previously
undertaken by the PO and ultimately owning it. While it has been aggressive in revising the
policy framework, the Government has decided on a slower, two-phased approach for the reform
of the Post Office itself; first because of the present poor situation of the PO, and secondly to
ensure the positive participation of the labor force and unions that represent them in this labor-
intensive operation. The first phase will change the PO from a government department to an
autonomous corporation, subject more to corporate than governmental laws and procedures.
While the responsible Minister will still retain ultimate authority for key strategic decisions,
given the continued state ownership of the corporation, greater flexibility in hiring, firing,
procuring, and general operational management will be devolved to the Board and management
of the new corporation. As part of its first phase, the Government has selected and placed the
management of the new corporation--Trinidad and Tobago Postal Corporation; TTPost--with a
proven, international operator that will also undertake an investment program to upgrade the
technology and efficiency of the system, and a detailed program to provide quality and universal
postal service to all T&T citizens. The second phase of the reform will be to fully privatize
TTPost, while virtually completing the liberalization of the postal system. The details of the
reform are as follows:
(i)  A Reformed Policy Framework.  Passage of the TTPost law, has led to the
liberalization of parcel and letter service, although TTPost will have a monopoly on
letters (excluding newspapers, catalogs, magazines) of under two kilograms. Most
of the major international courier firms have established themselves in T&T, but
three (DHL, UPS, and Fed Ex) account for 80 percent of the business. Since
Express Mail Services (EMS) usually weighs far more than a standard letter and
suffers higher rates for speedy delivery, this means most domestic courier/EMS
mail may be liberalized as well. Within five years, the authorities expect to
completely open the market, with no monopoly at all for TTPost. The recent
passage of the Regulated Industries Commission (RIC) Act has also created an
institution that could be used ultimately to regulate monopoly mail service. While
the RIC will concentrate first on electricity, water, sewerage, and
telecommunications--since these are already in an advanced process of privatization
and the regulatory aspects of postal service are defined in a management contract
with a private operator--it may well include postal regulation, if the privatized
system retains a de facto monopoly position. The labor conditions have been



7
liberalized as well. TTPost has far greater flexibility in labor management than the
prior postal department, and the Government has begun to provide Voluntary
Separation Employment Packages (VSEPs) to about 40 percent of the postal
employees; it expects to complete the voluntary staff reduction by the end of 1999.
(ii) Increased Private Sector Participation. The TTPost law not only permits the
corporatization of T&T's postal system, it also permits the Government to offer a
Delegated Management Arrangement (DMA) to another corporation (or consortia)
to manage the operations of the new TTPost. After a period of preparation and
consultation, the T&T Government offered the management of TTPost in an
internationally competitive process consistent with World Bank procedures. The
interested parties included a consortia of British Post with the Swiss Post, the
German Post with two local firms, Canada Post with Nepostel, and New Zealand
Post International Ltd.(NZPIL), a wholly owned subsidiary of New Zealand Post.
In the event, only the latter two placed formal offers, and NZPIL was selected in
July 1998. Through TTPost, NZPIL will implement a US$10 million investment
program during the period of the DMA. The key incentive driving NZPIL is the
DMA, which has annual performance targets for postal coverage, consumer
satisfaction, mail transit times, TTPost revenues and net profits. These targets are
linked to the payment of NZPIL's management fees. In addition to its management
fee, at the end of the second year, NZPIL could be paid an incentive payment in an
amount equal to 30% of the Net Income of TTP. Prior to the completion of the
DMA phase, the authorities will decide on the detailed strategy for the second phase
of the reform program.
(iii) Improving postal coverage and efficiency. While the DMA provides an incentive
for private management to improve postal service, effecting that change will require
a series of changes and capital outlays. NZPIL and the Government have agreed on
a business plan that includes automation of postal and financial transactions, the
replacement or rehabilitation of retained post offices, the construction of a new
central mail exchange near T&T's international airport, replacement of the present
vehicle fleet (which will likely be resold to individual subcontracted drivers), a
modern, computerized management information system, a security program to
ensure safer mails, a new Universal Postal Code for T&T, and a detailed training
and personnel incentive program to bring about a more commercial and responsive
approach among TTPost's staff. The result of this program is expected to improve
levels in service and revenues as shown in the following table:
Table 1: Level of Service, Revenues, and Net Income
1999-2003
Year   Universal   Customer    Transit    Growth in  Net Income
Service    Satisfaction  Time        Total    as a % of
Revenues  Total Revenues
1999     60%         50%         80%         36%            (10.8%)
2003     94%         84%         96%         9%/             10.4%
'Reflects growth in total revenue over the previous year (2002)



8
Universal service will be measured by the share of urban and rural households and
business sites with direct mail delivery. Customer satisfaction will be based on
customer surveys, common in assessing national mail systems. Transit time will be
that share of mail reaching addresses in all principal areas one day after mailing,
and to all other areas two days after mailing. Growth in total revenue is the sum of
the change in revenues generated from new businesses and existing products,
including tariff increases. In addition, there is also a net income performance
indicator which has been defined and agreed to in the management contract. Net
Income is defined as total revenues minus (operating expenses + depreciation +
payment of management fees + interest payments on all borrowings undertaken by
and for the purpose of TTPost + principal payment of the World Bank loan
beginning in the 5h year).
(iv) Capital investments. The Government, NZPIL, and the World Bank have agreed on
a major investment program, to be implemented by TTPost and financed by the
World Bank and Government (both directly and out of TTPost's cash flow). This
extensive program will finance the proposed new, modem systems, buildings,
transport fleet, and equipment -- from computers to ergonomically designed satchels
for mail carriers and more efficient letter trays. It will be a virtual revamping of
almost every edifice, equipment, and process used by TTPost, resulting in
upgrading the postal technology used in the country.
12.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices: The project will
address four principal issues in the postal sector: (i) improving labor efficiency which will be
financed principally by the Government from local counter-part funds; (ii) increasing private
participation which will be financed principally by the World Bank; (iii) modernizing postal
facilities and equipment; and (iv) continuing to strengthen the institutional capacity to support
and sustain the implementation of the postal reform program.
(i) Improving labor efficiency. No amount of training and systems development can
turn around a labor intensive system which remains overstaffed. The Government's
earlier estimate that the PO workforce is overstaffed by about 40 percent was
confirmed by the NZPIL proposal. But the reductions would be extremely
selective; sorters would be significantly affected by the introduction of new
machinery, and virtually all mail drivers replaced with contractors (probably the
same drivers); but inspectors and delivery staff would increase. Moreover, well
over a fifth of the employees are more than 50 years of age, and might find
retirement or VSEPs attractive. VSEPs have been used successfully in the reform of
the electricity and water sectors. Postal workers belong to two unions, the Public
Service Association (mostly clerical staff), which represents most T&T civil
servants, and the Trinidad and Tobago Postmen's Union (mostly letter carriers).
After the initial reduction, however, postal employment would increase as new
services and products are introduced One major success of the Government has
been to convince both unions of the need for the reform and acceptance of a
significant labor retrenchment. The management operator, NZPIL, is concerned that
a more general VSEP would lead to some of the best or most crucially trained
workers departing, and has asked the authorities to consult with it before agreeing
on VSEPs. As a result, the authorities will be undertaking a labor retrenchment



9
through a combination of retirements/attrition and VSEPs. The latter will take
effect over the first two years of the DMA, and be totally financed by the
Government.
(ii)  Increasing private participation. Preparation of the project, which began in 1994,
included discussions, seminars, and analyses of how to bring about private sector
management and incentives to a postal system in obvious distress. It was partly
through this cautious and thoughtful approach that the prior and present
Governments decided on the reforms and convinced the unions and other
stakeholders of their importance. The project has included not only this conceptual
work, but a detailed diagnosis and recommendations by a major consulting firm,
financed by a Project Preparation Facility. The choice of the operator, NZPIL, was
undertaken in an international bidding process consistent with World Bank
procedures. The proposed project also includes financing of the management fees
of the chosen international operator; at first directly and in the outer years from the
profits of TTPost. Finally, the project includes the development of the second
phase of TTPost's institutional reform, both the analysis and decisions on the final
structure--concession, franchise, sale--as well as the process to achieve it.
(iii) Rehabilitating facilities and modernizing equipment. While the newly corporatized
TTPost, along with its new management, should provide a far better environment
for postal improvements, and the newly reduced workforce will be more consistent
with good management and staffing practices, key to the attainment of the project's
objectives will be the new technology, cost reductions, and systems incorporated in
the agreed capital investment program. New or rehabilitated postal facilities,
including buildings, equipment, and management information systems, will be
combined with a complete revamping of the transport fleet, and new delivery
systems. The new services to be added will be crucially dependent on these
investments as well.
(iv) Further strengthening the institutional capacity. Finally, there is the institutional
support required by the Government if it is to push the reform ably. The DMA is,
in essence, a contract between the Government and NZPIL, and it is the
Government, through the Ministry of Public Utilities, that must disburse Bank funds
for the capital investment program, monitor performance of the operator, devising
and agreeing on changes when appropriate, and develop the second phase of the
postal reform. The project thus includes a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under
a high-level civil servant as coordinator, and sufficient staff and expertise to carry
out its responsibilities.
C:  Project Description Summary
1.   Project components:. To support the objectives and the Government's postal reform
program, there are five project components: (i) Voluntary separation assistance to support the
reduction in the work force (12% of total project cost); (ii) Private participation assistance to
develop and implement a strategy for increased private participation (30% of total project cost);
(iii) Rehabilitation and Modernization of postal facilities and equipment (45% of the total
project cost); (iv) Institutional strengthening to ensure the timely disbursement of funds and the
monitoring and evaluation of the management contract during the five years of the management



10
contract (5% of the total project cost); and (v) contingency baseline costs which represents
about 8% of the total project cost. About 36% of the total project cost would be financed from
the Govermment's counterpart funds, principally to support the reduction of the postal labor
force, payment of the management fees, and improving facilities. These counterpart funds are
not dependent on budget transfers as they would be sourced directly from TT Post's operations
and the sale of "excess and obsolete" assets. The following is a brief description of the major
project components:
(i)   Voluntary Separation Employment Assistance (US$ 2.7 million)
This component is the government's-financed Voluntary Separation Employment Package
(VSEP). It represents about 12% of the total project cost and 33% of the total project
contribution from the Government. The VSEPs would be consistent with Trinidad and
Tobago's labor laws, and granted after consultation with the union.
(ii)   Private Sector Participation Support (US$ 6.75 million)
This component is to finance all the phases in increasing private participation in the
postal sector. Though it represents about 30% of the total project cost, the management
fee paid to the international operator for the five year period accounts for about 80% of
the total component cost. The early preparation included consensus-building among the
political and labor parties which began with discussions, seminars, and analyses of how
to bring about private sector management and incentives to a postal system in obvious
distress. This early phase (seminars and consultants) has been funded under a Japanese
Grant Facility (JGF) and the previously approved Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The
selection of the international management operator (NZPIL) was undertaken in an
international bidding process consistent with World Bank procedures. The management
fees for NZPIL will be paid under the PPF (for the first quarter of operations as the loan
may not be effective) and under the proposed Bank loan for the first three years on a
declining basis (100% in the first year, 70% in the second year, and 30% in the third
year). The financing gap for the second and third year will be paid from the operations of
TT Post, while the fourth and fifth year will be paid entirely from internally generated
funds. Finally, this component includes the development of the second phase of TTPost's
ownership reform, both the analysis and decisions on the final structure--concession,
franchise, sale--as well as the process to achieve it.
(iii)  Rehabilitating facilities and modernizing equipment (US$10.4 million)
This includes the replacement, refurbishment and rehabilitation of existing buildings.
Extensive rehabilitation and upgrading are expected to be undertaken at all locations
retained as post offices. It also includes the equipment required to upgrade and modernize
the postal sector: vehicles, counter automation, scooters, surveillance equipment,
information systems, modern cancellers, culling/facing machines, registry automation,
sorting systems, private boxes, collection boxes, inventory, and operations and
maintenance.
(iv)   Strengthening institutional support (US$ 1.19 million)
This component includes the establishment of a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
within the Ministry of Public Utilities. The PIU must disburse Bank funds for the capital
investment program, monitor performance of the operator, devising and agreeing on
changes when appropriate, and develop the second phase of the postal reform. The



11
project thus includes a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under a high-level civil servant
as coordinator, and sufficient staff, including external advisors, to carry out its
responsibilities. The terms of reference and consulting contracts will be made available
prior to Board presentation.
2.   In addition to the project cost annexes, Table 2 below is a summary of the total project
cost.
Table 2: Project Cost Summary
PROJECT COMPONENTS                   _  _._                               _
I. Improving Labor Efficiency
*  VSEP Support               2,700.0    2,700.0
H. Increasing PSP
*  Preparation of PSP           50.0       20.0       30.0
*  PSP Phase 1                 800.0                  80.0       720.0
*  Management Fees           5,400.0    2,500.0                  400.0       2,500.0
*  PSP Phase 2                 500.0                                           500.0
HI. Modernizing Facilities
*  Rehabilitating Facilities  6,700.0    2,000                              4,700.0
*  Modernizing Transport      1,700.0                                       1,700.0
Fleet
*  Automating Post Office and   2,000.0                                     2,000.0
Upgrading Info. System
IV. Strengthening
Institutional Capacity
*  Project Coordinator         340.0      140.0                   100.0      100.0
*  Project Implementation      500.0     370.0                    30.0       100.0
*  Project Evaluation          350.0                              150.0      200.0
V. Baseline Cost
*  Contingencies              2,000.0    500.0                              1,500.0
%ALLOCATION                    100%       36%          1%           6%       57%
3.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:  The  project  addresses
postal sector reform in a comprehensive way. Indeed, this comprehensive approach explains the
long lead time that was required for project preparation. The key sectoral policies, developed as
part of the preparation, encompasses the following major features: (i) a reduction in the scope of
the public monopoly, containing it to a narrow segment in the letter mail segment; (ii) the full
cost recovery and financial autonomy for the newly established TTPost; (iii) the elimination of



12
cross-subsidization of the non-reserved services by the reserved service segment under
monopoly; (iv) the collection of revenue (at full tariff levels) from all users of mail, including
government agencies; and (v) a new partnership with the private sector in PO and PSB. These
policy changes have been approved in the parliament, and new legislation incorporating the
policy changes was drafted, considered, and awaiting passage by parliament during the
preparation of this project.
4.    The institutional changes were equally far-reaching. The PO, once a division of the
Ministry of Public Utilities, has been transformed by an act into a state-owned corporation. Its
corporate and legal structure provides the entity with increased powers over critical areas such as
employment, investment, capital expenditure, joint ventures and new businesses. Another new
institution, the Regulated Industries Commission (RIC) has also been established by law, and
will soon begin its regulatory work. While the RIC will concentrate first on non-postal service
monopolies, it can be easily refocused on postal services as phase 1 of the postal reform (and the
DMA, which incorporates all regulatory issues) ends. Finally, the Postal Savings Bank (PSB)
will be transformned during the project period. The new postal operator, NZPIL, will be
proposing ways by which the PSB can either be sold to a private bank or otherwise transformed
into an effective ancillary financial arm of TTPost.
5.   Benefits and target population.  Since they are used by all the country's businesses and
households, improvement and development of the postal service will generate very major
benefits for the nation as a whole. By supporting the development of PO into an efficient,
market-driven, high quality provider of postal communication and financial services, the project
would specifically benefit:
(i)   Consumers, by providing them with a reliable, low-cost, high quality and market-
responsive portfolio of postal services. In particular, the major beneficiaries are
those who do not have communication alternatives and do not now receive direct
mail delivery; e.g., rural and low-income communities. Particularly assisted
would be those, often elderly, residents that depend on remittances from family
members abroad, since the greater security and speed of the new system will make
these transfers far more dependable.
(ii)   Local businesses, by providing mass mailers (publishers, news media, advertisers,
bill distribution and collection, etc.) a reliable, low-cost communications medium
and by reducing the amount of their working capital tied up in the mail system.
Internationally oriented firms--hotels, exporters, and importers-would
particularly benefit from a more secure and rapid means of communication.
(iii)  Government, through a reduction in the fiscal burden of supporting a large, loss-
making enterprise. It is expected that the operating subsidy will be eliminated by
the end of the second year of the DMA; and.
(iv)  Labor, although some workers will receive VESPs, the remainder should greatly
benefit through increased training, improved working environment and practices,
and introduction of performance linked rewards. Furthermore, the image and
standards of the postal workers will be enhanced considerably with the
introduction of new uniforms and equipment.



13
6.   Institutional and implementation arrangements:    The borrower is the Government of
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, and loan funds would be disbursed into a Special Account
at the Central Bank. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Public
Utilities will be responsible for the overall project management, monitoring, and coordination. It
will prepare, and transmit to the Bank, quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) which
will summarize project progress in terms of financial activity, key performance indicators, and
procurement. The PMRs will also serve as disbursement requests (See Annex 6). It will also be
responsible for conducting annual project reviews and for compiling and/or obtaining from
TTPost, periodic reports (some of which will feed into the PMRs) on performance against agreed
DMA performance indicators, and the physical and institutional components of project
implementation.
The PIU will review design specifications, prepare tender documents, evaluate tenders and
ensure the timely finalization of contracts for technical assistance. It will also develop the
proposed second phase of the reform, within the context of the LTA framework. Since the Board
of TTPost has legal responsibilities-placed in the legislation in anticipation of phase two-
members of the PIU and other government staff will compose a majority of the TTPost Board to
ensure full compliance of the DMA. Finally, the PIU will conduct, with the Bank, a mid-term
evaluation of the reform's progress within 30-months after the DMA has become effective. The
PIU will maintain a consolidated account of all expenditures under the project, maintaining
proper records and accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect the
resources and expenditures on the project. It will provide within six months of the end of each
fiscal year an audit report prepared by auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
D: Project Rationale
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
T The various alternatives increasing private participation--lease/concession arrangements,
Rehabilitation-Own-Operate (R-O-O) and through partial equity sale--were considered and
rejected. During an international conference which included many potential investors, it
became clear that the investors were reluctant to take over the financial and investment
risk in the current network, but were prepared to undertake a management contract. Since
there are still few truly private basic mail delivery corporations, many of the state-owned
mail systems found it difficult to invest and otherwise accept international risks within
their existing national institutions. NZPIL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of New Zealand
Post, is one of the exceptions. The following table shows the status of postal services in
selected countries:



14
Table 3: Status of Postal Services in selected countries2
SELECTED                            STATUS OF POSTAL SERVICES
COUNTRIES
Germany       Joint-Stock Company managed under private law. State currently holds 100% of shares
Netherlands   45% state-owned, 55% in private hands
Sweden        Limited liability company under private law. State currently holds 100% of shares.
Monopoly on letter deliveries abolished 1993.
Singapore     Private limited company. Has monopoly until 2007
Argentina      State-owned but privately operated. Has 30-year concession on postal services.
South Africa   State-owned. Operating on commercial principles.
Australia      State-owned business enterprise. Pays 60% of after-tax profits to government.
France         State-owned
New Zealand   State-owned under corporatized structure
Italy          State-owned
United States   State-owned under corporatized structure
Japan         State-owned
*   Since Trinidad and Tobago, particularly the Ministry of Public Utilities, has had recent
experience with a management contract in the water sector, it was not averse to this
modality. While the water reform has not been fully satisfactory, both the Bank and
Trinidad and Tobago have learned much from the process.
* Another alternative considered was separating the Postal Savings Bank immediately from
the new postal corporation and otherwise disposing of it. This alternative was rejected by
the Government, since it wanted to improve postal service first. By including a decision
on the PSB in the project, the authorities will ensure that at least some improvement in
mail service (and consumers' capacity to pay utility bills) will occur before the PSB is
otherwise disposed of.
2 Financial Times, "Privatization of Post Office is Ruled Out", December 8, 1998, pg. 8



15
2.    Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing andplanned):
Project                      Sector Issue             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Trinidad & Tobago                                               Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed:
Technical Assistance Loan    The project complements the             S                 S
(Loan No. 31530)            accompanying SAL (LN 3152-TR)
to implement its medium-term
adjustment program.
Water Sector Institutional   Strengthen water resources              U                U
Strengthening (Loan No.      management, support introduction
37840)                       of private sector management in
WASA, and prepare a drainage and
flood control project.
Environmental Management     To support GoRTT's efforts to
(Loan No. 38630)            establish institutional and legal       S                 S
framework for environmental
protection.
Business Expansion and       Development and/or restructuring        U                 S
Investment (Loan No. 34320)   of private manufacturing or service
firms, especially to compete in
export markets.
Other Development Agencies   None identified
Other Countries -Bank
Togo: Public Enterprise      The project supports liberalization    NA                NA
Restructuring and Privatization  of postal sector and provides
Support Project (Credit      institutional strengthening through a
No.3045)                     management contract
Sri Lanka: Postal Service    The project supports the financial     NA                NA
Reform Project (under        viability of the Post Office and
preparation)                 private partnership in postal
financial services.
Cameroon: Privatization and    Separation of telecommunications     NA                NA
Private Sector Technical     from post operations, liberalization
Assistance Project (Credit No.  of the postal market
28820)                                                             . 1        1
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



16
3.   Lessons learned and reflected in the project design. The project has been designed to
take into account lessons learned regarding how to address three types of problems posed by
similar performance-oriented reforms of public agencies supported by the Bank: (i) management
contract approaches, (ii) postal sector-specific problems, and (iii) technical assistance problems.
(i)    Management agreement lessons. Management agreements have not been the most
successful modality to provide private approaches for public services; the lack of
equity participation by the managing firm has proven difficult to overcome. As a
result of this experience, this project incorporates a series of steps designed to
ensure a more satisfactory result:
> The management contract itself has been designed to be as clear and specific
as possible.  In the past, misunderstandings and disputes have occurred
because the contracts referred to many other documents and proposals, which
led to disagreements as personalities and business conditions changed. In this
case, the management contract is totally self contained.  It has specific
annexes used to indicate only the key actions and timing expected in
implementing business plans, human resource plans, etc.
S The contract is--as much as possible--between only two parties; the
Government and the managing operator. All too often, management contracts
have three and even four parties-the boards of the state enterprise to be
managed, a regulatory agency, cabinet-wide committees, other Ministries-
and these lead to constant crossed signals for the manager. In this case, every
effort has been made to keep the contract as much as possible between the
Government, as represented by the PIU in the Ministry of Public Utilities, and
the management operator. While the Board of TTPost has responsibilities that
could conflict with monitoring the agreement, since the TTPost legislation
was designed for a possible private corporation that could develop during
Phase II of the reform, the authorities will appoint government staff from the
PIU and other ministries to ensure the Board is responsive to the letter and
spirit of the agreement, Regulatory matters that could have been passed to the
RIC to monitor will be retained in the PIU for clarity of responsibility.
> Incentives and remedies have been built into the contract. All too often, "risk
contracts" have only contract abrogation as a penalty, thus forcing a
government to decide if it will continue with a poorly performing manager or
abrogate the contract, leaving a vital public service unmanaged for a
considerable time as it seeks a replacement. It often decides on the former. In
this case, clear performance indicators on coverage, transit time, consumer
satisfaction, and real revenue increases are key to the contract.
Noncompliance with the indicators will lead to a reduced management fee.
> Finally, there are labor issues. Many management contracts fail because the
managers have no control over a largely over-dimensioned labor force, ill-
motivated for productivity and change, and unresponsive to new equipment,
technology, and systems. In this case the authorities and the two unions
involved have agreed on a major work force reduction to be legally and



17
generously achieved through VSEPs. Moreover, a solid preparation by the
Government seems to have convinced the workforce that change is vital to
their continued existence. Finally, the managing company was chosen both on
its experience in other, similar situations and its proposed Human Resource
Plan as well as Change Management Strategy. The key actions of both have
been incorporated in the management contract.
(ii)   Postal-sector specific lessons.  The project has also been designed to reflect
lessons learned from similar reforms in the postal sector in particular. New
legislation for the postal service was prepared and passed as part of project
preparation; it provides the clear basis for postal reform and private partnerships
in the postal sector. The project also supports the creation and maintenance of a
monitoring unit that provides on-the-ground support to the Government on
aspects relating to regulation, supervision and control of the management
operator. The postal reform experiences of other countries is reflected in the
institution building. A comprehensive review of the postal sector worldwide by
the World Bank noted that mere corporate transformation in the postal sector has
not led to performance improvements3 In fact, in some instances, unfocused
corporatization has led to service deterioration. Corporate transformation is solely
a vehicle to provide a conducive environment for change. In the postal sector,
three other important components of reform are: (i) policy that provides the
freedom and flexibility to the postal entity whilst protecting social interests; (ii)
sustainable capacity building; and (iii) access to capital in order to improve and
expand the postal network. This project addresses all three of these needs in the
following manner: (i) as part of project preparation, a new policy was designed
and new legislation reflecting the policy was drafted and passed; (ii) sustainable
capacity building through private sector partnership is included in the DMA; and
(iii) provision of funds for network rehabilitation, and private sector involvement
in the operation and ownership of retail network.
(iii)  Technical assistance lessons. Based on the Bank's most recent review of its
technical assistance experience:4 the project has been designed to set quite narrow
and specific objectives (improvement of the quality and coverage of postal
services).  It has also been structured to provide strong incentives to the
management operator to meet project and performance targets. The task team has
devoted considerable time and resources to bringing the client along in the postal
sector reform process and in building ownership. Project design reflects lessons
learned from considerable experience in both postal sector reform efforts
worldwide as well as regarding the implementation challenges typically posed by
efforts to modernize public agencies.
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:  While there are, indeed, multiple
stakeholders affected by the proposed project--the Government, postal management,
employees-all have been consulted throughout project preparation. Finally, the means of
3Ranganathan (July 1996).
4 Committee on Development Effectiveness (CODE), Perspectives on Technical Assistance
Loans, draft (The World Bank: Washington, D.C., June 26, 1997).



18
delivering and using consultants has been carefully designed in full consultation with the client
and potential bidders on the management contract to ensure complete buy-in. The Ministry of
Public Utilities is strongly committed to the reform program and is eager to implement the
project as indicated in the letter of sector policy. The following is a brief summary of the actions
taken:
* Postal legislation has been approved by Parliament;
* The prior Post Office has been transformed into Trinidad and Tobago Postal
Corporation with defined roles and responsibilities for the Board of Directors;
* The recent legislation includes far-reaching policy changes (such as reduction of
monopoly, abolition of free mail, ability to enter into private partnerships)5;
* The Govermnent has designed, consulted with the unions and announced voluntary
separation employment packages;
* A public relations program for the internal and external communication of the reform
program has been underway for more than two years;
* Support of the two unions has been secured; and
* An NZPIL has been selected via international competitive bidding.
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project: Without World Bank support, the postal
reform program may not have been undertaken and possibly not implemented. In the past few
years, the Bank has developed a strong postal sector reform practice by pioneering a large scale
study exclusively on postal sector reform and providing technical assistance to numerous
countries on issues such as regulatory policy reform, network expansion, corporatization and
commercialization, and private participation. Through its collaboration with international
organizations such as the Universal Postal Union (UPU) and Postal Development Action Group
(PDAG), the Bank is in a unique position to provide advice and technical assistance to the
Government. This permits the Bank to tap into a worldwide network of experts and integrate the
lessons from other countries that have undertaken or are undertaking similar reforn efforts. The
UPU has funded some of the project preparation activities.
Bank support to Trinidad and Tobago for postal reform began in 1994, and encompassed
a series of conferences, seminars, and analyses for two different administrations. While the size
of the project is modest, the budgetary cost to the Bank has been consistent with the ambitious
reform efforts. Bank association with the project was also useful in attracting international
operators; both final bidders were clearly eager for Bank participation in the project.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1.   Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$4.29 million (at a discounted rate of 12%); IRR= 30% [] Cost
Effectiveness Analysis:
[ Other (Specify)
5 See, e.g., H. Atwal, "Re: Public Sector Reforn Project: Postal Service Reform Component,"
letter (May 22, 1997).



19
2.   Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$4.6 million (discount rate of 12%); IRR= 37%. The
financial return is high due to the turnaround in profitability anticipated in TTPost's operations
beginning in the third year of the DMA.
Fiscal impact: A savings of about 0.2% of GDP resulting primarily from annual operational
subsidies and collection of taxes from TTpost. Secondary fiscal benefits resulting from increased
business activity have not been assumed in fiscal impact calculations.
3.   Technical: The project is technically sound. It attracted four serious operators-even
more during the pre-bid conference-to seek pre-qualification, and the final bidders were
reduced to two only because two others found they could not assume international obligations
that would be key to a risk-management contract. The chosen operator has successfully reversed
a poor postal system in its home country and has extensive international experience. Proposed
investments may be relatively high compared to well-run postal enterprises, but given the lack of
investments over the past several decades, the proposed investment levels seem appropriate.
Cost estimates for capital improvement are within acceptable margins of error.  Project
management skills and implementation expertise will be mobilized through the management
contract; the PIU will retain a senior, experienced postal expert and a lawyer for its monitoring.
4.   Institutional:   The Post Office is a division of the Ministry of Public Utilities. The
centralized administrative unit structure insulated the Post Office from responding to the
changing market forces and delivering an acceptable service.  Unclear, ambiguous and
conflicting enterprise objectives resulted in overall deterioration in efficiencies and market
performance. There were no clear controls on the Post Office's financial and operating
performance. The state of physical assets had deteriorated, primarily due to neglect and to the
failure of the state to determine priorities. Capital expenditure has been minimal over the recent
years, largely due to the heavy subsidization of the postal service by the Treasury.
Continued restrictions on the enterprise would have endangered its capacity to meet its
major public service obligation (universal service), as users searched for better communication
modes and other providers of communication, resulting in progressively declining volumes and
increasing unit costs. From the perspective of the mailing industry, greater freedom was
beneficial both for the mailer and the Government. At the same time, that greater autonomy had
to be provided within a framework that ensured adequate accountability.
The proposed project addresses these institutional problems. The new postal service law
establishes an institutional framework within which a restructured TT Post enjoys the autonomy
it needs to improve its performance. The incentive-based management contract with NZPIL will
provide the needed performance incentives and accountability. Finally, the proposed project has
been designed specifically to support this institutional change process and ensure that the
implementation challenges identified above (see "Lessons leamed and reflected in the project
design" - Section D.3) are adequately addressed.
5.    Social:  The project primarily benefits rural residents, more importantly the rural poor,
by making postal communications and postal financial services accessible to them. The project
also promotes private sector development, both at the retail end of the market as well as parallel
operations. In improving efficiency in operations, the project calls for a structured voluntary
departure program. Due to the voluntary nature of the retrenchment, coupled with financial
assistance for the affected workers, the negative impact is believed to be minimal. The Bank is



20
coordinating with the Inter-American Development Bank to provide additional assistance to the
affected workers in the forn of re-training and job placement assistance. Moreover, the
Government has had positive prior experience with its VSEP, which made that the only really
viable option.
6.   Environmental assessment:  Category  C.  The project is not expected to pose any
important environmental risks.  Aside from  technical assistance, the project will finance
rehabilitation of existing postal facilities and acquisition of equipment required to modernize the
PO's operations. None of these investments would pose environmental risks.
7.   Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The primary beneficiaries are the rural
poor, rural non-poor (through increase in access to services); rural businesses (by
providing a financial linkage through the postal network for funds transfer and promote
trade with urban markets); Government (through ending subsidies); other users of mail
and postal financial services. The Government has taken a pro-active approach to
enlisting the support of these constituencies for these reforms. For instance, through its
public information efforts, the Government managed to give sufficient salience to the
Postal Sector reform effort prior to the July 1996 pre-bidders' conference, that a local
television station devoted an entire hour of air-time to coverage of that conference.
That coverage included about one-half hour of open phone line time, during which
callers were encouraged to voice their concerns about both the then current performance
of the PO as well as about the proposals for reforming the PO. Responses during that
call-in time revealed considerable dissatisfaction with the PO's performance and
interest in the proposed reforms. Subsequent press coverage reveals considerable
public awareness of and interest in the PO reform process.6
Affected by the project are also the workers who would accept the VSEPs. The two
postal unions have been involved in the design of the project and will be involved in its
implementation. The Government held periodic consultation and information-sharing
meetings with postal workers at critical stages of project preparation. The unions were
also fully involved in the pre-bid conference for the management contract, and were
given the opportunity to share their views with the bidders. This participative strategy
has so far been quite successful in enlisting the cooperation of both affected unions,
despite initial caution on the part of the Postal Workers Union and initial resistance on
the part of the Public Services Association.
b. Other key stakeholders: Private sector operators. Local operators have been encouraged to
participate in the reform program and have demonstrated considerable interest.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1.  Sustainability: Sustainability of project benefits will depend on three elements: (i) the
Government's continued commitment in improving the policy environment; (ii) the management
operator (NZPIL) to meet the specified project and performance targets; and (iii) a well-
developed and smooth transition to Phase II of the reform. The commitment of the Government
has so far proven quite strong, and it is fully determined to concentrate on policy, monitoring and
6 See, e.g., press clippings in Project File.



21
enforcement issues. A carefully designed management contract is expected to maximize the
operator's incentive to perform well while penalizing poor performance. In addition, over the
long term, sustainability of benefits also would depend on further private sector activity
developed to take advantage of the more open policy environment.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk         Risk Minlimization Measure
Rating
Objectives to CAS Goals:
1. The business environment may not be     N    1. Management Operator selected with a
conducive for private participation             well-defined performance-based
management contract.
2. Eliminate fiscal transfers, improve postal   2. Postal Act eliminates fiscal transfers
and communications efficiency and      M        and management contract defines
increase customer satisfaction                  project and performance targets
Outputs to Sectoral Objectives:
1. Management Operator may fail to meet   M     1. Incentive-based contract provisions
project and performance targets                  minimizes this risk.
2. Reduction of postal workforce of 40%    M    2. Voluntary package in place and been
may not take place in a timely manner           well accepted in other sectors
3. Management operator may fail to         M    3. Incentive based contract minimizes this
undertake the entire capital investment         risk
program in a timely manner
Overall Project Risk                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.   Possible Controversial Aspects: There are possibly two controversial aspects of the project;
the VSEPs and the Long Term Arrangement of Phase II of the reform. Early participation and
consultation with the unions and workers seems to have brought acceptance of the VSEPs.
Moreover, they have been used in other reforms and are now less controversial. The care, indeed
prudence, with which the authorities developed the first phase, and their successful consultations
with affected stakeholders, augurs well for acceptance of a more aggressive Phase II.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1.  In order to ensure immediate and effective disbursement upon approval of the loan, the
following loan conditions are proposed at each stage of loan processing: During loan
negotiations (held on February 1-3, 1999), the Government complied with all loan conditions and
actions identified. These actions included the satisfactory submission of copies of: (i) the
approved Postal Act 1999; (ii) the signed Delegated Management Contract; (iii) the signed letter
of sector policy; and (iv) the draft terms of references for the various initiatives to be financed
under the proposed loan. For loan effectiveness, the Government would have implemented the
financial management system, for purpose of making disbursements under the LACI system.



22
Other key government obligations during project implementation include the submission of the
proposal for: (i) the Postal Savings Bank; and (ii) the Long Term Arrangement. In addition,
other project related loan conditions are outlined in the loan agreement.
2.   Others [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
None identified.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation. [ x ] Not applicable.
[ x I The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[ ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[ x ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task TerTask Manager: Anil Kapur
Sector Manager/Directo :    y Leipziger
Country    ger/Direc r: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos



Trinidad and Tobago: Postal Services Reform Project
Project Design Summary
I. Sector-Related CAS Goals
1. Rcfocus the public sector by   1. Delegated Management   1  Conduct periodic          1. Management (Operator will
supporting the strategy of      Arrangement (DMA) in          assessments of              undertake the necessary actions to
piloting small, focused          place for the first five     management operator         meet the project and performance
interventions for early,        years                         against targets            targets
demonstrable results.
2. Design and Implement      2. Undertake supervision   2. The Government does not change
Long Term Agreement          missions to assess         its intentions for having a
(LTA) prior to expiry of     performance under           competitive LTA process, if
DMA                          Phase 1.                    performance is not achieved under
the DMA
2. Eliminate fiscal transfers,   3. Phase-out fiscal subsidies  3. Annual financial       3. Management Operator will meet
improve postal and              to the Postal Service         reports of TT Post          the project and performance
communications efficiency        beginning in year 3                                      targets
and increase customer
satisfaction                 4. Achieve project and       4. Undertake supervision   4. Tariff increase for selected postal %
performance targets          missions                    products is made effective as
planned



Project Design Summary
II. Project Development Objectives
1. Greatly improve postal service   1  Transform the PO into a  I  PIU's progress reports,    1. Improvements in the quality and
by expanding its coverage and   commercially viable and       TTPost's audited           quantity of postal services will
quality while achieving major   responsive corporation:      financial reports, and      increase efficiency and reduce
efficiency gains and introducing  *  eliminate government     UPU Annual Statistics      communications costs
new products and services,      subsidies and transfers; and  Yearbook
* meet universal, transit,
customer satisfaction,
revenue, and profit targets
as defined in the contract
2. Increase private sector      2. Select international       2. Selected management     2. Ability of management operator to
participation                   management operator           operator based on           perform according to contract
interniatioinal bidding
3. Monitor project and       3. Mid-term evaluation of    3. Effective implementation and
performance targets          management operator's       enforcement of the contract by PIU  t
performance                staff
4. Develop Long Term
Agreement for Phase II   4. Design of LTA            4. Retention of consulting firm to
design LTA
5. Competitive Bids for    5. Competitive bidding for the LTA, if
LTA under Phase II         existing performance is poor



Project Design Summary
III. Project Components
I. Improve Labor Efficiency
1. Voluntary Separation          I. Reduce postal workforce by  I. Receive quarterly manpower   1. VSEP is found to be an
Employment Program (VSEP)         about 40% from current        reports on reduction of postal  adequate instrument in
levels                       workforce;                      addressing retrenchment
2. Conduct periodic supervision   2. Government commitment
missions to evaluate social     continues and counterpart
impact of program               funds avail in a timely manner   uL
II. Increase Private Participation
2. Consensus building among      2. Undertake seminars and     3. Participate and attend seminars 3. Completed
stakeholders                     hold news conferences to      on ensuring success of private
build consensus              participation in postal sector
3. Develop stratcgic privatization    3. IJd(lertake situldy of postal   4. participate in progress revicws  4. Comlpletcd
Options                          sectfl willi thea ssistance oU'    and ncistulc satistiactory
an international consultant  implementation
4. Select Management Operator    4. Make quarterly payments   5. PIU and TT Post's submit      5. Ability of manager to meet
against performance          periodic reports; conduct       performance targets
supervision missions
5. Develop LTA                   5. A transparent and well     6. Prepare LTA for competitive   6. Government commitment
defined LTA                  bidding                         continues on competitive
process



IProject Design Summary
III. Project Coinponents Continuied
r  Narrative Sumiimary              Key Perforimiance In(licators     Moniitoring andl EvaluationW.        Cdtlri A24ii
IlI. Motlcriiizatioin of Facilities
6. Refurbish postal buildings,    6. Undertake capital investment  7. Monitor disbursements and   7. Assets and other properties are
improve facilities, modernize     program of US$10 million          performance of capital         disposed in a timely manner
transport fleet, introduce        equivalent, outlined in          investment plan as per
automation and new                supplementary proposal of         DMA. Key indicators are e   8. Capital investments contribute to
management information            the management contract          the completioni of the new      yielding the expected project and
systems in the postal system                                        post office, moderinizationi   performanice targets
of the transport fleet, and
new security system
8. Conduct periodic
supervision missions and
receive periodic investment
._____________________ _________                reports  capital program
IV. Developnmtent of Iitstitiitiovl
Capacity
7. Strengthen and complement      7. Recruit local and              9. Draft terms of reference    9. Government would not
the staff, where necessary, of    interinationial advisors to assist  completed; draft consulting   reorganizations and introduce
the Project Implementation        the PIU implemenit the reform     contracts to be prepared       changes to the PIU
Unit (PIU)                        programii
*  2 interinationial advisors on  10. Condtict periodic
shiort term assignimlenits for   supervisioni missionis amid
scm ii-amitial evaluiation, or   evalumatel  U1's licedis
management contract
*  2 local advisors for day-to-
day adminiistrative tasks



27
Annex 2
Trinidad and Tobago: Postal Services Reform Project
Project Description
1.    To support the Government's objectives and postal reform program, the total project cost
is US$23.04 million equivalent. 36% of the total project cost would be financed by the
Government while the remaining 64% from a proposed World Bank loan and the JGF. The
Government's counter-part funds would be used principally to support the reduction of the postal
labor force, payment of the management fees, and improving facilities. These counter-part funds
would be sourced from TT Post's operations and the sale of "excess and obsolete" assets. The
project is expected to be effective May 1999, with a closing date established for December 31,
2004. Due to heavy front-end actions to be undertake by the management operator, more than
85% of the total loan is expected to be disbursed during the first two fiscal years.
2.    There are five project components: (i) provide voluntary separation assistance to support
the reduction in the work force (12% of total project cost); (ii) increase private participation in
the existing T&T Post (30% of total project cost); (iii) modernize the postal facilities and
equipment (45%of the total project cost); (iv) strengthen the institutional capacity to ensure
timely disbursement of funds and the monitoring and evaluation of the management contract (5%
of the total project cost); and (v) contingency baseline costs, representing 8% of the total project
cost. The following is a description of the five project components:
(i)   Voluntary Separation Assistance (US$ 2.7 million)
This component is the government's-financed Voluntary Separation Employment Package
(VSEP). The VSEPs would be consistent with Trinidad and Tobago's labor laws, and
granted after consultation with the union.
(ii)   Private Participation Support (US$ 6.75 million)
This component is to finance all phases in increasing private participation in the postal
sector. The early preparation included consensus-building among the political and labor
parties which began with discussions, seminars, and analyses of how to bring about
private sector management and incentives to a postal system in obvious distress. This
early phase (seminars and consultants) has been funded under a Japanese Grant Facility
(JGF) and the previously approved Project Preparation Facility (PPF). To develop
alternative strategic privatization plans, the Government retained the services of a
management consulting firn (Booz, Allen and Hamilton). The "technical" consultants,
under Phase 1 of increasing private participation was financed by the Bank under the JGF
and PPF. This study provided the necessary analytical underpinnings for the selection of
the international management operator (NZPIL), undertaken in an international bidding
process consistent with World Bank procedures. NZPIL will provide management
services under a contractual agreement (DMA) for a period of five years. On completion
of the DMA period, this component also includes the development of the second phase of



28
TTPost's ownership reform, both the analysis and decisions on the final structure--
concession, franchise, sale--as well as the process to achieve it.
The DMA is a performance and incentivized based management contract for a duration of
five years. Under the DMA, NZPIL will provide selected key personnel as well
specialized focus teams. NZPIL will appoint the Managing Director, the Manager for
Human Resources, the Manager for Marketing, all to be resident in T&T for a five period.
In addition, the Manager for Postal Operations will be based in T&T for a period of two
years. The total management fees plus related expenses to be paid to NZPIL is US$5.4
million. The payment of the management fee is linked to NZPIL achieving specified
performance targets. If these targets are not achieved at the end of the 12-month period,
the GORTT may impose penalties for each of the performance targets on an incremental
basis. Due to the higher than anticipated costs during the early transitional years, the
management fees to be financed under the loan will be paid on a declining basis (100% in
the first year, 70% in the second year, and 30% in the third year). The difference in the
payment of the management fee for the second and third years, and the remaining period
of the DMA, will be paid from internally generated funds of TT Post. The total fees to be
under the PPF and the loan is about US$2.9 million. In addition to the performance
based management fees, NZPIL could receive an incentive payment in an amount equal
to thirty percent of the net Income of TT Post. This incentive payment is to be paid each
year within thirty days of the completion of the audited accounts of TT Post.
(iii)  Rehabilitating facilities and modernizing equipment (US$10.4 million)
Due to limited historical investments, T&T Post requires substantial facility
improvements in order to adequately manage the delivery of postal services.
*  Rehabilitating facilities: Postal service locations consist of 75 full service post
offices (6 in Tobago) and 161 "agency" post offices (27 in Tobago). Of the full
service operations, the GPO in Port-of-Spain serves essentially as the national sorting
center. Only 5 of the 66 owned Post Office buildings have been built within the last
10 years and many are 30 to 40 years old. Extensive rehabilitation and upgrading are
expected to be undertaken at all locations retained as post offices.  The total
investment required for rehabilitating facilities is estimated at US$6.7 million.
a Improving postal surveillance, delivery services and modernizing transport fleet:
Currently, the PO has a large nunber of incidences involving pilferage, leading to a
lack of confidence amongst its customers. Delivery of mail is undertaken by carriers
(door delivery), private boxes located at 30 post offices, and general delivery (post
restante), of which about half of the households receive their mail through general
delivery services. The PO transports mail throughout T&T primarily through the use
of half-ton and one-ton vans. Of the 60 vehicles in the fleet, less than half are
currently in service, due largely to the lack of fleet maintenance. Therefore, major
areas for efficiency improvements include security of mail, refinement and
standardization of work processes of carriers and the transport used by the carriers.
The total investment program for improving surveillance, delivery services and
modernizing the transport fleet is estimated to be US$ 1.7 million.
*   Automating and upgrading information systems: It also includes the equipment
required to upgrade and modernize the postal sector: vehicles, counter automation,



29
scooters, surveillance equipment, information systems, modem cancellers,
culling/facing machines, registry automation, sorting systems, private boxes,
collection boxes, inventory, and operations and maintenance. The total investment
program for automating and upgrading information systems is estimated to be US$
2.0 million.
(iv) Strengthening institutional support (US$ 1.19 million)
This component includes the establishment of a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
within the Ministry of Public Utilities. The PIU must disburse Bank funds for the capital
investment program, monitor performance of the operator, devising and agreeing on
changes when appropriate, and develop the second phase of the postal reforn. The project
thus includes a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under a high-level civil servant as
coordinator, and sufficient staff, including external advisors, to carry out its
responsibilities. The organization structure and reporting responsibilities for members of
the PIU are discussed in the Letter of Sector Policy. The terms of reference and consulting
contracts will be made available prior to Board presentation.
(v)  Contingencies (US$2.0 million)
This component includes baseline contingencies in the amount of US$2.0 million which
represents about 9% of the total project cost. The major reason for this level of the
contingency amount is due to the unanticipated investment costs that could arise in the
rehabilitation and refurbishment of the post office.
3.   The total estimated project cost and financing sources are shown in the following
Annex 3. It is estimated that about 50% of the total project cost is financed from local
currency sources, mainly due to the large local components for rehabilitation of facilities
and payment under the VSEP.



30
Annex 3
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
POSTAL SECTOR REFORM LOAN:
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING SOURCES
(USSOO0s)
IMPROVING LABOR EFFICIENCY
VSEP Program                      2,700.0                   --  2,700.0
INCREASING PSP
Preparation of PSP                   50.0           30.0           20.0
PSP Phase I                         800.0          800.0           ---
Management Fees                    5,400.0        2,900.0        2,500.0
PSP Phase II                        500.0          500.0
REHABILITATING AND MODERNIZING FACILITIES
Rehabilitating Facilities        6,700.0        1,700.0        5,000.0
Modernizing Transport            1,700.0         1,700.0          ---
Automating Post Office           2,000.0        2,000.0          ---
STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Coordinating Unit                  340.0          200.0          140.0
Project Implementation             500.0           130.0        370.0
On-going Project Evaluation        350.0          350.0          ---
__                      ~~~~~~~~A
_Ew~~~~~g 0 f ._gO"



31
Annex 4
Postal Services Reform Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
(TT$ thousands)
Present Value of Flows         Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial
Analysis     Analysis        Taxes       Subsidies
Benefits                 82,575        82,575        20,316        16,875
Costs                   117,640        61,494
Net Benefits:            64,935      53,585.0        20,316        16,875
IRR:                       30%          37%
Introduction
The economic analysis of this type of project presents special difficulties. This is due
essentially to the difficulties in assigning monetary values to the various economic
benefits that are to be achieved under the project.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Benefits under the project are significant. The benefits are linked to the cost of the
management contract. Without the implementation of the management contract, the
project would not realize improvements in market position (sales and revenues),
improvements in market share through network rehabilitation and cost containment
through focussed productivity improvements. In terms of financial performance, the
cumulative losses for TTPost for the period 1996-99, were about TT$67.8 million.
During the next four years (2000-2003), the cumulative profit is expected to be about
TT$37.2 million, representing a change of about TT$105 million (US$16.8 million). In
addition, customer coverage and transit time will be improved significantly during the
course of the DMA. Other public utilities will incur additional savings from improved
cash management and commercial banks, who employ staff solely for purposes of
delivering documents, will achieve greater efficiency in the delivery of documents and
manpower savings.



32
The graph bellow illustrates the profitability with and without the project.
Operating Income with and without the Project (in TT$ million)
40000
37500
35000                                                   /
32500
30000                                          /
27500                                      /
25000 -
22500
20000
17500
15000 -
.=  12500                                                              -         e
E 10000                                                                  w   Project
5  7500
5000 /
2500 /
-2500 1   1998    1999      2000       2001       2002      2003
-5000j
-7500
-10000
-12500
-117:500 -
-20000-
Year
No operating subsides are provided under the project. However, the Government's
support would be limited to VSEP payments for the reduction of staff from the PO. The
loan, though initially would be paid by the Government, TTPost, would in later years
(beginning in year 5) be responsible for repaying all debt obligations. The Government
would realize these payments upon the eventual sale of TTPost which is contemplated on
expiry of the DMA.
Sensitivity Analysis
Under alternative sensitivities on revenue growth and cost reductions, the project is viable
and both economic and financial rates of retums are positive. The following are the
results of the sensitivity analysis:
* The project's success is dependent largely on revenue growth. Assuming that
revenue growth follows historical patterns (i.e. no change in "real" projections from
the base year (1998), the project's NPV would be negative at the discount rate (16%).
Alternatively, assuming that revenues increase by only 95% (as opposed to 115%) of
the projected amounts, the project's financial NPV would be TT$ 20.52 million at the
discount rate (16%) and the IRR of 31% ; while the economic NPV would be
TT$18.48 million (discounted rate of 12%) and an internal rate of return of 25%.
With a 50% increase in tariffs during the first year of the DMA, there is a very low
probability that the project would not achieve its targets.



33
Major Assumptions underlying the financial and economic analysis:
+ A tariff increase of 50%, beginning in the second quarter of 1999 has been assumed
for the life of the project. The effective rate is 36% increase in postal revenues with
only a marginal decrease in decline (14%). TTPost will continue to enjoy a monopoly
in letter mail for the duration of the DMA. An indicator of reliable mail service is the
Pony express which currently charges TT$10 for delivery of a domestic letter in
comparison to TT$0.50 that is charged by the PO. DHL and FedEx charge TT$94 and
TT$78 respectively for delivery of international mail, as compared with TT$65
charged by the PO.
* About 80% of TTPost's current revenues come from the sale of stamps. This revenue
source and ratio is expected to continue.
* The voluntary separation of a staff and the capital investment program will completed
within the first three years of the project.
* No principal and interest payments will be made by TTPost until 2003.
Quantifying Benefits
It should be noted that project economic and financial benefits are identical in these analyses.
No account has been taken of the following benefits of an improved postal system.7
3 Lowered customer waiting time and the opportunity costs that represents.
-  Customer savings from not having to use far more expensive alternatives to the post.
v Savings to utilities who are now themselves arranging for bills to be carried to different
towns and only then mailing them.
* Savings and improved cash flows of utilities, which now bill their customers at 2-3 monthly
intervals rather than monthly.
* Savings to the large banks, which currently employ staff solely for the purpose of delivering
documents to their branches
* Marginal Productivity of laid-off employees elsewhere in the economy.
* Sale revenue proceeds would generate positive results after the sale of TTP
Most of the above expected benefits would occur in the medium term since the project is
expected to facilitate institutional development. Expected non-monetized benefits from the
project include improved management, changes in quality and quantity of services, conducive
business environment. After the restructuring of the postal office, GORTT would be in a better
position to negotiate a higher price for the sale of TTP.
Profits generated by the post office have been used for the calculations as a benefit measure. We
have included new business revenues and revenues with tariff increase and GDP. However, we
have not considered economic externalities from gains in productivity and output and the
additional contribution to the economy that the workers will be able to make by working where
' This section relies on information telephonically provided by Mr. H. S. Atwal of the Ministry
of Public Utilities, Trinidad and Tobago.



34
there is an effective demand for their services. In the absence of precise information on these
types of considerations, it seems most practical to assume financial and economic benefits values
are coterminous.



35
Annex 5
Postal Services Reform Project
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities8
Years Ending: 1997 through 2003 7
1996     1997       1998       1999     2000      2001      2002      2003
Actual                                 Forecast
Income Statement Items
Unit Volume (000's)
REVENUES               47,205    30,400   45,010       60,821   70,877    78,338   87,076     95,020
OPERATING
EXPENDITURES
Payments to Staff   44,030    45,446    47,314       42,979   32,905    27,921   28,018     28,865
Staff-related Costs  2,549     1,981     2,765        2,765    1,007      857      859        885
Utilities             1,644      903     1,227        1,040     797       677      678         700
Vehicle Costs          625       474       550        1,016     637       541      543        560
Contracted Services   4,268    4,498     6,200        5,165    7,836    9,336   10,336      10,869
General Costs         6,166    4,962     5,964        8,809   13,781    12,896   13,696     14,780
Sub-total           59,282    58,264    64,020       61,774   56,963    52,228   54,130     56,659
OPERATING             (12,077)  (27,864)  (19,010)      (953)  13,914    26,110   32,946      38,361
INCOME /(LOSS)
Adjustments
Depreciation           755       755       755        2,972    5,427    5,931     4,932     4,319
Interest Bank Loan                                    2,666   5,220     6,250     6,689    62,079
Management Fees                                         ---   2,495     3,883     4,731     4,426
Principal payment9                                      ---      ---                       13,569
Sub-total of           755       755       755        5,638   13,142    16,064    16,352    28,521
Adjustments
TOTAL EXPENSES    60,037    59,019    64,775           67,412   70,105    68,292   70,482    85,180
8 Income Statement based on Ministry of Public Utilities submission
9 Payment of World Bank loan amortized beginning in the last year of the DMA contract. Future
principal payments will be negotiated in the sales price



l
36
Postal Services Reform Project
Balance Sheet and Selective Financial Indicators for TT Post
1996 ACTUALS                   ACTUALS/FORECASTS
P.O.   P.S.B.  TOTAL   1997    1998         1999    2000    2001
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets       27,065   13,032   40,097   27,065   27,065   27,065   27,065    27,065
Fixed Assets         30,064            30,064   29,309   28,554   48,580   74,973    76,918
TOTAL ASSETS         57,129   13,032   70,161   56,374   55,619   75,645   102,038  103,983
Current Liabilities   4,230    9,770   14,000    4,230    4,230    4,230    4,230    4,230
Capital Contributions   52,899    3,262   56,161   52,144   51,389   71,415   97,808   99,753
TOTAL LIABILITIES  57,129   13,032   70,161   56,374   55,619   75,645   102,038  103,983
Capital Expenditures                  ---                          22,747   31,820    8,976
Working Capital
Increase (Decrease)
Debt Service
Total Applications    l_L_I__
Financial Ratiosll,"                                               ___
Operating Income as a
% of Revenue     =                     (26%)    (92%)   (42%)       (2%)    20%      33%
Net Income as a
% of Revenue                           (27%)   (94%)   (44%)    (11%)         1%      13%
Return on Investment                      (23%)   (55%)   (38%)        9%        1%     10%
Debt Service Coverage
Percent of Total Capital
Expenditures financed by
Internal Sources
Current Ratio             6.4-    1.3      2.9      6.4       6.4     6.4      6.4      6.4
Debt as % of Total                                                    23%      63%      84%
Capitalization
10 When feasible, comparative data on other enterprises in the same industry should be shown.
1 Guidance on financial ratios for financial intermediaries is given in OD8.30 Annex A and in an
FSD note on performance indicators ("The Use of Sectoral and Project Performance Indicators in
Bank-Financed Sector Operations," March 1995).



37
Annex 5
Postal Services Reform Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending 1999 - 2003
(TT$ million)
Implementation Period
99         00          01              02        03
Project Costs
Investment Costs      22.7         31.8         9.0           0.2             0.1
Recurrent Costs       67.4         70.1        68.3          70.5            85.2
Total            90.1        101.9        77.3          70.7            85.3
Financing Sources
(% of total project
costs)
Government          40%           30%       70%           80%            90%
World Bank          60%           70%       30%          20%             10%
Total (TT$ millions)    30.0        64.0       30.0         10.0            10.0
Main assumption:
With the exception of the management fees to be paid to NZPIL, the management operator, the
recurrent cost for TTPost will be financed from internally generated operating revenues. The
investments costs would be financed by the Government and the under the proposed World Bank
loan. About 85% of the Bank loan funds are expected to be disbursed during the first two years.



38
Annex 6
Trinidad and Tobago: Postal Services Reform Project
Procurement and Financial Management Arrangements
Procurement
1.   Goods and works will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines, "Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, and
September 1997 and January 1999). Procurement of goods will consist of postal equipment and
motorization (i.e. vans; scooters). Works will consist only of refurbishing and rehabilitation of
existing facilities. Consultants will be hired following the World Bank's Guidelines for the
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in
September 1997 and January 1999).
2     Procurement methods (Table A): Project costs and procurement methods applicable are
summarized in Table A. The main contract under the Project is the retaining of a management
operator under the period of the Delegated Management Agreement (DMA). The Borrower
selected a management operator following acceptable ICB procedures. Due to the limited
number of suppliers of postal equipment, goods estimated to cost between US$50,000 and
US$250,000 per the contract will be procured following Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB)
procedures. Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per the contract will be procured
through international shopping. Works under the project will consist of refurbishing and
rehabilitation of existing facilities. Works estimated to cost between US$250,000 and
US$3,000,000 per contract will be procured following NCB procedures, under bidding
documents acceptable to the Bank. It is not expected there will be any contracts for works
costing more than US$400,000. For works estimated to cost more than US$250,000 per
contract, procurement will be made on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified
domestic contractors. With respect to consultant services, the Borrower has retained the services
of an international consulting firm for the preparation of a privatization strategy at a cost of
US$800,000. The selection of this consulting contract has been concluded and found satisfactory
to the Bank. At the mid-term evaluation phase of the DMA, the Borrower will retain a
consulting firm according to Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. Individual
consultants will be retained, according to standard Bank procedures, by the Borrower for the
implementation of the postal reform program
3.   Prior review thresholds (Table B):  The thresholds for the applicable procurement
methods are identified in Table B.



39
Financial Management Assessment
4.  The Borrower and the Bank have agreed on an Action Plan for the establishment of a
financial management system for the project. The scope of this plan would include a system for
cash management, accounting, internal control and financial reporting which would be in place
prior to loan effectiveness. In this pursuit, the Borrower has hired a project accountant,
established adequate facilities within the Ministry of Public Utilities, and opened a Special
Account at the Central bank for the PPF. The Action Plan specifies that prior to effectiveness,
the PIU would prepare a financial procedure manual, retain the services of an accounting systems
specialist who would assist the PIU in establishing a computerized accounting and procurement
monitoring system, and an external auditing firm would be contracted.
The Action Plan incorporates the use of procedures under the Bank's Loan Administrative
Change Initiative (LACI). In accordance with LACI, the PIU would on a quarterly basis, submit
to the Bank PMRs, which would allow for the simultaneous monitoring of financial, physical and
procurement activities of the project, while also serving as an application for disbursement from
the loan account. The physical monitoring information--consisting of technical evaluation--
would be submitted on a semi-annual basis, and thus would only be incorporated into the PMRs
for the quarters ending March 31 and September 30 of each year. It is expected that the project
will be "LACI ready" prior to loan effectiveness. It will thus request its first PMR-based (as
opposed to SOE-based) disbursement when it requests the initial deposit of loan funds into the
Special Account.
Annual Audit: In addition to the submission of quarterly PMRs, the project will be required to
submit an annual audit report to the Bank. The audit will be undertaken by an independent
auditor. The audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of
the project's financial year.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C): The project would be disbursed over a period of five
years against expenditures net of taxes and duties, as follows: (i) 100% of goods purchased in the
international market; (ii) 100% of works for foreign expenditures and 87% for local
expenditures; (iii) 100% of consultant services; (iv) 100%, 70% and 30% of the management
operator fees during the first, second and third years of the DMA respectively. About 95% of the
loan proceeds will be disbursed during the first three years. The remaining 5% planned for
disbursement has been set-aside for the implementation of the reform program during the last
two years.
5.  Retroactive Financing:  Eligible expenditures incurred within one year before Loan
signing would be retroactively financed up to a maximum of US$ 1.3 million (about 10% of the
Loan value).
6.  Special account: To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government
will establish in the Central Bank a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PIU under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make a deposit into the
Special Account based on the information provided in the quarterly PMRs. The PMRs would be



40
accompanied by a withdrawal application (Form 1903) and the Special Account bank statement.
The Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
in conjunction with the financial audit referred to above.
TABLE A: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                     Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB/i       NCB         Other        N.B.F
1. WORKS
Refurbishing/rehabilitation                  7.7                                   7.7
of postal facilities.                       (5.7)                                 (5.7)
2. GOODS                         3.0                      1.1        0.5           4.6
(3.0)                   (1.1)                    (4.1)
3. SERVICES
Management Operator/2            5.4                                               5.4
(2.9)/3                                           (2.9)
Other Advisors/4                                          2.2        0.4           2.6
(2.2)                    (2.2)
4. M ISC EL LA NE O US/5                                             2.7           2.7
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan, PPF and the JGF
1/ Limited International Bidding and International Shopping
2/ Management Operator - A contractor has been hired to manage and operate the T&T postal system. World
Bank financing will be on a declining basis: 100% the first year, 70% the second year; and 30% the third year.
3/ Limited International Bidding.
4/ Other Advisors will be hired using Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures and the hiring of
individual consultants will be undertaken according to standard Bank procedures.
5/ Miscellaneous includes Voluntary Separation Employment Program (Retirement), PPF and Front-end Fee



41
TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS
AND PRIOR REVIEW
Expenditure       Contract Value       Procurement       Contracts Subject
Category          (Threshold)           Method                to
Prior Review
1. WORKS
Refurbishing and        250 to 3,000          NCB            First two contracts.
rehabilitation of          <250           Three quotations         First
postal facilities.
2. GOODS                   >250                ICB                 All
>50-250              LIB                  All
<50           Inter'l Shopping         First
3. SERVICES
Firms                     > 100                                    All
< 100                            Review TORs only.
Individuals                > 50                                    All
<50                              Review TORs only.



42
TABLE C: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Expenditure Category         Amount in           Financing Percentage
US$million
1. WORKS
Refurbishing/Rehabilitation          4.5        100% of foreign expenditures; and
87% of local expenditures
2. GOODS                             3.9        100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures ex-
factory; and 87% of local
expenditures for goods procured
locally
3. CONSULTANTS
Management Operator Fees             2.5        Fees to be paid on a declining
basis; 100% in the first year; 70%
second year; and 30% third year
Other Advisors                       0.9        100%
4. PPF                               1.4        100%
5. FRONT-END FEE                   0.1485       100%
6. UNALLOCATED                     1.5015
Total       14.85



43
Annex 7
Trinidad and Tobago: Postal Services Reform Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                    Planned                         Actual
(US$000)                          (At Appraisal)                     230.9
B. Project Schedule                  Planned                         Actual
(At Appraisal Stage)
Time taken to prepare                   60
the project (months)
First Bank mission                  04/27/1994                     4/27/1994
(identification)
Appraisal mission                   09/08/1998                      09/08/98
departure
Negotiations                        02/01/1999                     02/01/1999
Planned Date of                     05/01/1999
Effectiveness
Prepared by: Ministry of Public Utilities
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant No. TF25275
Bank staff who are currently working on the project
Name                                    Specialty
Anil Kapur                          Task Manager
Peter Kyle                          Lawyer (LEGPS)
Jose Carvalho                       Lawyer, (LEGLA)
Paul Meo                            Consultant, Privatization Expert
Hannah Koilpillai                   Disbursements
Daniel Boyce                        Financial Management Specialist
Sonia Plaza and Sheoli Pargal       Economic Analysis
Bank staff who previously worked on the project:
Gary J. Reid         Task Manager; Public Sector Reform, Institutional Development
Kumar Ranganathan    Postal Sector Reform, Private Sector Development
Rohini Dey           Research Assistant: Postal Sector Reform; Private Sector Development
Andrea Fernandez     Research Assistant: Postal Sector Reform, Private Sector Development
Efraim Jimenez       Procurement
Norma Rodriguez      Procurement
Hannah Koilpillai    Disbursement
Daniel Boyce         Project Management, Accounting and Audit
David F.             Lawyers
Varela/Alberto Ninio
Jyoti Shukla         Public Sector Reform; Private Sector Development
Graham Scott         Public Sector Reform



44
Annex 8
Trinidad and Tobago: Postal Services Reform Project
Project Implementation Plan and Key Documents in the Project File*
A.  Project Implementation Plan
New Zealand Post International Ltd. (NZPIL), the selected management operator, will
undertake virtually all the substantive work (outlined in the DMA) in reforming the PO under the
proposed project. The following is a summary of the project implementation plan for the key
activities under the postal services reform program:
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE FOR KEY ACTIVITIES
(For the period 1998-2000)
Main Activities              1998                   1999                   2000
2  4  6  8  10  12 2  4  6  8  10  12 2  4  6  8  10  12
Public Infonnation Campaign
Enactment of Postal Act
Management Contract
VSEP Program
Monitoring Unit: Operation
Expected Implementation of
Key Equipment by
Management Operator
Rehabilitating Facilities
Modemizing Transport Fleet
Automating Post Office
Upgrading Infornation Systems



45
B. Bank Staff Assessments
"Initial Project Concept Paper: Trinidad and Tobago Public Services Strengthening Project,"
(Washington, DC: The World Bank, December 7, 1994).
"Project Information Document: Trinidad & Tobago Public Sector Reform Project (PSRP),"
(Washington, DC: The World Bank, March 17, 1995).
"Project Appraisal Document: Trinidad & Tobago Postal Services Reform Project (PSRP),"
(Washington, D.C. The World bank, December 15, 1998).
C. Other
Bank Reports and other Bank Documents
Memorandum of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to
the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for Trinidad
and Tobago, Report No. 14028-TR (March 7, 1995).
Trinidad and Tobago Macroeconomic Assessment and Review of Public Sector Reform and
Expenditures: the changing Role of the State, Report No. 15187-TR (June 28, 1996).
Trinidad and Tobago Policy Agenda for Sustained Development, Report No. 10417-TR (June 23,
1992).
"Trinidad and Tobago Country Assistance Strategy: Concept Paper," draft (September 26, 1997).
Government Documents
Trinidad and Tobago Postal Corporation Act, 1998
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, Report of the Auditor General of Trinidad and Tobago on a
Comprehensive Audit of the Post Office Savings Bank, (June 5, 1992).
Government of Trinidad and Tobago, Private Sector Participation in the Postal Sector: Briefing
Document (July 1996).
Ministry of Public Utilities, Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, "Development
Needs of the Post Office," presentation to the Private Sector Participation Workshop (Port-of-
Spain, Trinidad and Tobago: July 10-11, 1996).
Ministry of Public Utilities, Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, "Postal
Savings Bank and Other Financial Services through the Post Office: Concept Paper" (Port-of-
Spain, Trinidad and Tobago: August 1996).
Ministry of Public Utilities, Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, "Terms of
Reference for Valuation of Postal Sector Assets and Resources," (Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and
Tobago: September 12, 1996).
"Contract for Consultants' Services between Government of the Republic of Trinidad and
Tobago and Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inc." to assist Government in the Selection of Private
Sector Operator to manage the Post Office (Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago: April 4, 1997).



46
Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, "Postal Sector Reform Project - Report on
the Evaluation of Expressions of Interest by Postal Service Operators for the Operation of the
Postal Service of Trinidad and Tobago," (Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago: September 10,
1997).
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, "Private Sector Participation in the Postal Services of
Trinidad and Tobago: Delegated Management Arrangement - Request for Proposals," (Port-of-
Spain, Trinidad and Tobago: March 1998)
Other Non-BankINon-Government Documents
Trinidad and Tobago Postal Workers' Union, "Restructuring of the Postal Services - The
Union's view point," presentation to the Private Sector Participation Workshop (Port-of-Spain,
Trinidad and Tobago: July 10-11, 1996).
"Should the mail service be privatised?" Trinidad Guardian (Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and
Tobago: March 17, 1995).
Price Waterhouse, "Postal Services of Trinidad and Tobago: Draft Report on Balance Sheet as at
31 December 1996," (Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago: September 4, 1997).



Status of Bank Group Operations in Trinidad and Tobago
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of October 15, 1998)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amnount in USS Millionts              and actual
_____________          ~disbursements a!
Project ID    Loan or   Fiscal            Borrower                     Purpose
Credit No.  Year                                                             IBRD       IDA    Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig  Frm Rev'd
Active Loans
TT-PE-810 1   IBRD33280   1991  GoRl'T                          YOU I'l I TRG&EMPL            20.70      0.00           0.00          3.42       3.42        0.00
PROJ
TT-PE-8100  IBRD34320   1992  GoRTT                             Bl)SINESS EXPANS &            27.00      0.00           0.00          9.57       6.92        -1.06 -4
IN
TT-PE-36007  IBRD38630   1995  GoRTT                            ENVIRON MGMT                   6.25      0.00           0.00          4.02       2.74        0.00
TT-PE-37006  IBRD37840   1995  GoRTT                            WTR SCTR INS'1'1 STRE         25.00      0.00           0.00          7.82       7.64         0.00
T`-PE-35312  IBRD39560   1996  GoRTT                            BASIC EDUCATION               51.00      0.00           0.00         48.40       6.47        0.00
Total                                                                                        129.95      0.00           0.00         73.23      27.19        -1.06
Nuimber of Closed L.oans/crcdits: 15
Active Loans       Closed Loans          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              56.71            137.30             194.01
of which has been repaid   :               4.75            106.55            111.30
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             125.20             30.74             155.94
Amount sold                  :                00()             22.87             22.87
Of whicli repaid            :               0.00             22.87              22.87
'I'otal Undisbursed          :               73.23              (.00              73.23
a. Intended disbursements to date (minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.                                                     >
Note: Disbursement data is updatcd at the end of the first week of the montih.                                                                      @



'I'Iilii(la(I anid Tobago
S'T'A'I'EMEN'I' OF IFC's
Commilit tednd DiI  I)iS rII-SCd 11rtffolio
As f I )fccember I 15, 1998
(lot; 1 I )ollar Mellioes)
Comiemit(ed           1            Disbur sed
FY Alpiproval            Compnly            I.,oaM  lEqiuily   Qlinsi  I'arlic   I,ono   Equpily   Qunsi  I'artic
1984                    1 toime Mootgage          0)o       .A I    00(0     0.01)    (.0(0    .41     0.0      0.00
1985                    TRINGEN                   0.00     0.0    12.43     0.0(     0.00    0.00    12.43     0.00
1989/92                 DFL                       0.00      .60     0.00     0.00     0.0      .60    0.00     0.00
1996                    Caribbean Ispal          27.40     (.00     0.00    55.00    21.92    0.00     0.00    44.00
Total Portfolio:                                 27.40      1.01    12.43    55.00   21.92     1.01    12.43    44.00
SO.
0D



49
Annex 10
Trinidad and Tobago at a glance                                                                    2171Sg
Trinidad      Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    and  America  middle-
Tobago  & Carib.  income           Development diamond'
1997
Population. mid-year ,kwfl                              1.3       494        571                 Life eRpectanog
GNP per capita /A4f.l/aawA4U$                             ..    3.880      4,520
GNP f(Adasnmfoe      e5$hen/j                            ..      1917      2,584
Average annual growth. 1991-97
Population fs                                           0.8        1.7       1.5
Labor Force (4                                          1.8        2.3       1.9      GNP          ,                   Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year avaiable. 1991-97                                  capita                        enrollment
Povertg f.e pWMk        wnkapw vt                        21         ..
Urban population f;'d&vdpcw     t                      73         74        73
Life expectanog at birth I.warcrj                       73         70        70
Infant mortalty 4, wdAt?MoM'fA                           12        32        30
Childmalnutrition /aa  'QaoX.@                           7         12                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water ItcxpWMkw/                         82         73        79
Rliteracy (apqtd/caehW                                   2         13         15
Gross primary enrollment fS ce   aeptda6n/               96        111       107          _     ,kallada,d TcLr,a.
Male                                                   91         ..        ..        -
Female                                                102          ..       ..                                                 :
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986        1996      1997
Economic ratios-
GDP ($Adtwtc                                   2.5      4.8        5.7       5.9
aross domestic investmentlflP                24.8      21.6       17.2      21.8
E-ports of goods and servicesfGDP             55.8     33.3       52.6      49.4                     Trade
Gross domestic savingslGOP                    40.3     17.3       27.7      14.9
Gross national savingslGDP                    35.5     11.4       18.4       9.6
Current account balancefGDP                   11.4     -8.6        12       -12.7
Interest paymentslGDP                          0.4      2.5        3.0       2.2      Domestic                    Investment
Total debtfGDP                                 3.8     39.2       39.6      36.7      Savings
Total debt servicelemports                     5.3     18.9       15.7      18.8
Present value of debtGODP                       ..
Present value of debtlexports                   ..
Indebtedness
1976-96 1987-97       1996      1997  1998-02
GDP                                  4.3       1.0      3.5        32        3.3         -J-.-            Totg
GNP per capita                        1.7      0.1      2.3        7.0       2.5
'Exports of goods and services        5.1     -0.3     -6.9        3.9       4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996       1997       Growth rates of output and inuestmenl
Agriculture                                    3.9      2.6        .8        1.7    s"
Industry                                      59.5     39.7       46.1      45.9     40
Manufacturing                                14.5      7.9       8.6        .4      20 
Services                                      36.6     57.7       52.1      52.4 o
Private conswmption                           47.5     59.2       61.4      74.9    -20                 94         9F   47
General govemment consumption                 12.2     23.4       10.9      102
Imports of goods and services                 40.1     37.5       42.2      56.3               -G DI         _-GDP
1976-96 1997-97        1996      1997       Growth rates of ezports and imports l
Agriculture                                   -7.5      2.0        3.8       1.1    s0o 
Industrg                                      -2.0      0.5        2.7       3.5    40                                           .
Manufacturing                                -9.4      2.3       2.0        7.5    zs
Services                                       4.0      0.9        3.6       3.3      0
Private consumption                            6.0      3.1       13.0      19.4    -20      #2   ")     4   95   94   9?
General government consumption                 5.6     -7.0       -2.9      -8.2    -40
Gross domestic investment                      1.3      0.7       11.6       0.0   -*o
Imports of goods and services                  8.7     *22        13.4      50.6             - Export,    _-- Import,
Gross national product                         3.3      0.9        3.1       7.9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country fin bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete.



OPTS'                              OIMO'                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 27581
.61'30'                                                                  61 600'                                                 .          ds6030'
Tobgo                     Ca
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                                                                                                    ply
-                                     t a~~~~~~~~~~~ r ib b C3 a r,             To                    /          J6mBb
11990 POPULATION BY DISTRICT'*             0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                 '            '     rau=
300,000                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
200,000                                      MAIN ROADS
100,000                                      AIRPORTS
i   //    50,000                                       PORTS
.._._*NOrE: Popolot  figures for the districts of  ~ RIVERS
Std esorge East andWest, and Vicoroi East      DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
and Wes, ar agqgregteo she -os nod
1100o                o.tc  .onpanes.
|--     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
URBAN POPULATION:
S........E......   pettans
- :< <'   --- 25,000
Redhead              ~~~~~A '1  1  As       
VENEZUELA
tore  f         9471                                                                                                          ''-  . ST. GEORGE
Ch'cacheoereI T                           C C                                                                                                                          s
0                                                             RE i                                              10    1      20    2SKILOM10ER0
PORT   F-S\PACIn                                                                       TTe andree  oor,deamntaa  ndey terirfrsrta
ParI  a rCaiiIjKoPC
\ K  Tehe)oit~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~. shr  o this snp do n-t imply, on, the pert of The World Bank Gr.op,
any judg-et an, the aa stato WI  en-y t-ritory, no ey e-dorse-en
erc-wten- atusch b.s.aderies
B-                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~CARIBBEAN   SEA  $tT`Tl.I4T,t  Beoo
-.                     Per~~~~~~~bI'-'t'                                                                 caraT            j'o)~S  By   B-, f.A
CedoT                              'PA   RFANA '~                                       et  ere       5        Gaeuae          Ol,aet           4to,tA                       VENEZUELA             Ij
C o I utm b u s  C h cf n n'-ase
NOVEMBER 1995



