                lnlc:rnational Bank for Rc:cor.s~:ucuun and U~\·-:lopm..:nt
                          International Developmc:nt Associ:ltion                                 87329
                             International Finance Corporation
                        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                    FOR OFFICL\L CSE         O~LY


                                   CONFIDENTIAL


                                                                                EDS99-85
                                                                             April 12, 1999

         Statement by: Jan Piercy
         Date ofMeeting: April13, 1999

                   Trinidad and Tobago- CAS and Postal Service Reform Project

         1.    I am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss the CAS and Postal Service
         Reform Project, although we would have preferred to avoid the last minute change from
         Thursday to Tuesday of the discussion.

         2.      We support a number of key aspects of this CAS. First, we agree that the low
         success rate of the Bank's existing project portfolio in Trinidad and Tobago justifies
         caution in programming new resources. We support the Bank's intention not to seek
         approval of additional new projects unless the Government's implementation of Bank-
         funded projects becomes satisfactory. With substantial improvements in implementation,
         we could support the recommended "base case" scenario of not more than about two
         projects a year. This modest approach appears entirely consistent with the significant
         involvement of the Inter-American Development Bank, Caribbean Development Bank,
         and bilateral donors such as the EU, as well as the Government's own lack of clarity
         about its own reform strategies and policies to which the CAS refers.

         3.      Second, given that weak institutional capacity-- particularly procurement
         practices-- account for the unsatisfactory performance of much of the Bank's project
         portfolio in Trinidad and Tobago, we strongly support early completion of a Country
         Procurement Assessment Report. The planned Governance Assessment and Public
         Expenditure Review may also contribute to necessary institutional strengthening and
         clarification of the Government's reform strategies and policies.

         4.      Third, we welcome the Government's intention to continue its efforts to
         consolidate macroeconomic stability with the support of an IMF Staff Monitoring
         Program. We agree with the Bank's advice to the Government that it should limit the
         role of the state in the economy and create a legal and regulatory framework for private
         sector economic activity rather than seek to promote diversification and employment
         generation through its own participation in "strategic industries."


!
I
  This    do..:ument has a restricted distributi\)O <.mJ mJ.v•
                                                               be used bv  •
                                                                              recipients
                                                                                     -
                                                                                                 only in the
 r;crt>)rrnmce of their offici~! duties. Its cont::n:s rn2y not othcr. t.:ise be dis.::loscd wirhou[\
~~~··:~ r!d B -:tnk authorizJ.tion.                  --·------·-------·------ ···---- ·-· ··-· _____________j
5.      While we concur with these fundamental elements of the CAS, in several other
respects we have serious reservations. Paragraph 35 characterizes the Bank's program as
"highly selective", "focused on improving education and effectiveness of social
programs, modernizing the core public sector ... and safeguarding the environment."
This claim of selectivity seems overstated. I would like to describe in some detail our
concerns in this regard.

6.      While paragraph 35 outlines three areas of emphasis for the Bank's activity,
paragraph 37 adds a fourth, "strengthening the financial system". These four areas are
very broadly drawn. For example, in describing the Bank's strategy for "modernizing
core public services", which is only one of the four central thrusts of the Bank's proposed
program, staff have grouped an ambitious menu of loans and other activities. This buffet
includes loans and activities to support private participation in utilities; strengthened
regulation of the postal, water, energy, power, and telecommunications sectors; judicial
reform; tourism; agricultural sector and land tenure reform; oil and gas sector reform; and
steps to strengthen procurement and financial management practices.

7.      The Country Program Matrix does not give us any greater assurance that
selectivity is being exercised. For FY 2000 alone, the matrix suggests that the Bank may
intend to prepare at least four lending projects to support judicial reform, drainage and
flood control, social development, and national parks development. In addition, the
matrix refers to additional undefined water projects for FY 1999-200 I, to a watershed
management project for FY 200I, and to an early childhood development project for FY
2002. Further, the matrix indicates that two LILs are possible in FY 2000, one for the
financial sector and one for the tourism sector.

8.      Annex B3 provides yet another description of the "base case" lending program for
FY 1999-200 I. While this Annex also shows four projects for FY 2000, it is not clear
that they are the same four projects mentioned in the Country Program Matrix. Also, this
Annex does not list the LILs to which the Country Program Matrix refers. In contrast,
however, this Annex does list a $30 million secondary education project for FY 2001 to
which there is no specific reference in either the text of the CAS or the Country Program
Matrix. While improvements in the secondary education system appear vital to remove
one of the key constraints on the educational system's capacity to produce a skilled work
force, we note from Box 2 that the IDB is also planning a secondary education loan. We
question, therefore, why the Bank is needed in this sub-sector.

9.      This same lack of selectivity applies to the non-lending services, which are
summarized in Annex B4. Far from one to two pieces ofESW per year suggested in the
Executive Summary, this Annex seems to envision as many as seven studies in FY 2000
alone. We believe that the Country Procurement Assessment Report, the Public
Expenditure Review, and the Governance Assessment are clear priorities. Given the
track record of the Bank's ESW in Trinidad and Tobago to date, however, we question
how likely the other planned non-lending products are to have a significant effect on the
pace or direction of the Government's reform efforts.
    10.     In sum, this CAS seems to be unfocused and unclear as to its core priorities.
    Despite its reference to selectivity, it reflects significant over programming of lending
    and non-lending services, which can only add unnecessarily to stress on over-stretched
    staff and to waste of resources. The four key elements ofthe Bank's proposed strategy
    are so broadly drawn that they could encompass any of a multitude of activities. This
    lack of selectivity is all the more disturbing given the large and comprehensive program
    of the Inter-American Development Bank and the fact that the Caribbean Development
    Bank and bilateral donors such as the European Union also have larger programs in
    Trinidad and Tobago than the Bank. We would welcome additional information on how
    the Bank intends to work with these other development institutions to define its own
    comparative advantage and avoid overlap. With these considerations in mind, and given
    the unsatisfactory performance of half of the on-going projects, we request that any future
    lending operations be brought to the Board for full scrutiny and discussion rather than
    under any streamlined procedure.

    11.     Turning now to the proposed Postal Service Reform Project, we are pleased to
    support this project, which seems likely to achieve significant improvements in efficiency
    and cost effectiveness in the provision of postal services within a framework of greater
    competition. We were somewhat puzzled, however, not to see any discussion of this
    project in the CAS to put it in the broader context of priorities for modernizing the core
    public sector. We note that the CAS does not envision follow-on support for phase two
    of the Government's postal services reform program. Given the CAS's many references
    to the Government's weak institutional capacities, including in areas of procurement and
    project management, strong performance of the Project Implementation Unit seems
    essential if this project is to avoid an unsatisfactory evaluation. We understand that staff
    of the Project Implementation Unit have now received two weeks of training in LACI.
    We trust that Bank staff will continue to work closely with this unit to ensure that it is
    implementing LACI, providing timely and accurate Project Management Reports, and
    identifying and resolving implementation problems.




...........-----------------------
