                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank


                                                          Report No:ICR0000392


            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (IBRD-44580)




                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 11.45 MILLION


                                        TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

                                         FOR A

                        POSTAL SERVICES REFORM PROJECT




                                      June 22, 2007




Finance and Private Sector Development
Caribbean Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
              ( Exchange Rate Effective June 13, 2007 )


                    Currency Unit = Trinidad and Tobago Dollar
                        1.00 TT$ = US$ .159
                        US$ 1.00 = TT$ 6.25


                           Fiscal Year
                    October 1--September 30



CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CSI          Consumer Satisfaction Index
DMA          Delegated Management Arrangement
FM           Financial Management
ICR          Implementation Completion and Results Report
IRR          Internal Rate of Return
ISR          Implementation Status Report
LTA          Long-term Arrangement
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
NPV          Net Present Value
NZPIL        New Zealand Post International Limited (Transend)
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PMR          Project Management Report
RIC          Regulated Industries Commission
TT           Trinidad and Tobago
TTPost       Trinidad and Tobago Postal Corporation
TT$          Trinidad and Tobago Dollars
USO          Universal Service Obligations
VSEP         Voluntary Separation Program

       Vice President:              Pamela Cox
       Country Director:            Caroline D. Anstey
       Sector Manager:              Lily L. Chu
       Project Team Leader:         Dana Rysankova
       ICR Team Leader:             Dana Rysankova




                                 1

                     REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

                     POSTAL SERVICES REFORM PROJECT



CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.......................................... 3
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes......................................... 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome...................................................... 22
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................ 23
 6. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 26
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners... 29

 ANNEXES
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...................................................................... 42
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.............................................................................. 43
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.............................................................. 44
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..... 45
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................ 47
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................. 47
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR............. 47
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders............... 47
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents................................................................... 48
 Annex 10. Additional Information ............................................................................ 50
 Annex 11. Summary of "2020 Vision for the Postal Sector"................................... 52
 Annex 12. TTPost Mail Volumes 2000-2006 (items per year). .............................. 54

 MAP




                                                          2

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Postal Services Reform
Country:                Trinidad,Tobago         Project Name:
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P040108                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-44580
ICR Date:               06/22/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                       REPUBLIC OF T & T
Original Total
                        USD 14.9M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 11.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Public Utilities and Environment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process               Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/11/1994      Effectiveness:       08/12/1999         08/12/1999
Appraisal:             11/15/1998      Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/13/1999      Mid-term Review:                        08/16/2002
                                       Closing:             12/31/2004         09/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                    Ratings               Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately
                                                                       Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing           Moderately
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Unsatisfactory




                                                i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                     Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   3                  3
Postal services                                                    97                 97


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                             Secondary
Infrastructure services for private sector development           Secondary
Regulation and competition policy                                Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization             Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:          Caroline D. Anstey                  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Lily L. Chu                         Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:       Dana Rysankova                      Anil Kapur
ICR Team Leader:           Dana Rysankova
ICR Primary Author:        Elliott Hurwitz
                           Eric Palladini
                           Dana Rysankova



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
1) Greatly improve postal service by expanding its coverage and quality while achieving
major efficiency gains and introducing new products and services in response to growing



                                                 ii

client needs. Extremely poor service quality and coverage would be replaced by faster,
more secure mail delivery for almost all citizens, with an increase in the variety of
services provided.

  2) Increase private sector participation. Two separate actions will be undertaken to
increase private sector participation. Firstly, the management and operations of the
existing post office will be transferred to the private sector in two phases. During Phase
1, a Delegated Management Arrangement (DMA) in the form of a performance-based,
incentive management contract that will lead to private management of the newly
corporatized post office; and in Phase 2, the deepening of the involvement of the private
secor in the form of a Long Term Arrangement (LTA). Secondly, there will be further
deregulation of postal products, with new private operators entering the market.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDOs did not change.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Universal service
Value
quantitative or 50%                       95%                               96.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1996                  06/30/2004                         06/05/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded

achievement)    % of achievement: 101%

Indicator 2 :   On time Delivery ((% of mail delivered the next day)
                Not available, but very
Value           low (the mail would take
quantitative or about 7-10 days to        96%                               88.3%

Qualitative)    deliver)

Date achieved 06/30/1996                  06/30/2004                         03/30/2005
Comments        Target likely not achieved. The achievement of the "on time delivery" target,
(incl. %        however, cannot be fully ascertained as definition of "on-time delivery"
achievement)    changed during the project implementation.
Indicator 3 :   Customer satisfaction (error margin +/- 5%)
Value
quantitative or Estimated below 50%       84%                               79.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1998                  06/30/2004                         03/30/2004
Comments        Target not achieved
(incl. %        % of achievement 95% (99% allowing for the error margin +5%. Yearly
achievement)    improvement targets were achieved in all previous years. Target not measured


                                               iii

               after 2004
Indicator 4 :   TTPost total revenue
Value                                      TT$95,020.000
quantitative or TT$ 47,000,000, revised                        TT$84,720.00   TT$85,912,027
Qualitative)    to TT$36,700,000                               0

Date achieved 06/30/1996                   06/30/2004          06/30/2004     09/30/2006
Comments        Target not achieved in its original date of 2004, achieved subsequently in 2006.
(incl. %        The baseline and target were revised to account for the removal of stamp duty
achievement)    revenues from TTPost revenues.
Indicator 5 :   TTPost Net Income
Value           (-) TT$13,000,000,
quantitative or revised (-) TT$23,300      TT$ 9,840,000       TT$4,173,000 (-) TT$24,758,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1996                   06/30/2004          06/30/2004     09/30/2006
Comments        Target was not achieved. Net income was actually reduced during the
(incl. %        implementation period. Target revised to account for the loss of removal of
achievement)    stamp duty revenues and other changes in the assumptions.
Indicator 6 :   40% Reduction in TTPost staff
Value
quantitative or 1,850                      1,110               1,100          1,183
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1996                   06/30/1999          06/30/1999     09/30/2006
Comments        Achieved in 100%. TTPost staff was reduced to 1,100 and then slightly
(incl. %        increased over time to 1,183 due the increasing business (expanded coverage
achievement)    and new services)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   TTPost New business revenue
Value
(quantitative   TT$ 0                      TT$15,879,000                      TT19,780.000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                   06/30/2006                         09/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        .
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   TTPost investment plan -- % completed
Value
(quantitative   0%                         100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/1999                   06/30/2004                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                                iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
 1    06/25/1999        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
 2    11/30/1999        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  1.83
 3    01/31/2000        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.20
 4    05/19/2000        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.96
 5    11/09/2000        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  3.29
 6    06/11/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  4.45
 7    11/29/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  5.20
 8    04/29/2002        Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 5.35
 9    10/02/2002        Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                 5.59
10    04/30/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  5.77
11    11/25/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  6.29
12    06/04/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  6.61
13    11/29/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  7.91
14    04/26/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  8.40
15    11/27/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           9.32
16    06/30/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           9.59
17    09/29/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         10.19



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                          v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


1.      Trinidad and Tobago is a small island state in the Caribbean, with population of 1.3
million. It is a middle income country which aspires to reach developed country status by 2020.
Trinidad and Tobago per capita GNI in 2005 was USD 10,440. The country has vast
hydrocarbons resources and its main economic activity is oil and gas production.

2.      During the 1990s the Government of Trinidad and Tobago sought to redefine the scope
and reduce the size of the public sector. Despite these efforts, in the late 1990s, public sector
employment was around 25 percent of total employment and was highly centralized and without
a clear client focus.

3.      The postal administration was a prime example of a poorly run state enterprise. Poor
management, low productivity, labor relations issues and badly maintained post offices with a
lack of coordinated services had led to an inefficient organization dependent on state subsidies.

4.      Trinidad and Tobago's per capita mail usage in 1996 was less than half that of Barbados
and well below Jamaica. It had hardly grown during the 1990s despite an expanding economy.
Postal service was unreliable and parcel service almost non-existent. Service area coverage was
less than 50 percent. Most rural, suburban and new urban residential areas had no service. More
than half of first class letters received were mailed to "general delivery," that is, picked up at the
post office. Declining or stagnating demand and poor service led to poor utilization of assets: in
1996, Trinidad and Tobago had 76 post offices and 161 postal agencies; 30 percent received two
or fewer customers a day. Operating deficits grew throughout the 1990s, reaching TT$28
million by 1997, however, Government subsidization was much larger, reflecting additional
indirect subsidies (see section 3.2).

5.      It is striking that the main supporter of reform outside the Government was the leader of
the postal union. Despite knowing that reform would lead to significant job losses and reduction
of members he also knew it would lead to better working conditions, customer service and
improved management.

6.      In the late 1990s, the Government established a comprehensive plan for public utility
reform with the objective to strengthen delivery and quality of public services. The Bank
proposed supporting this strategy with "small and focused interventions to strengthen delivery of
key public services and develop regulatory capacity" in a number of sectors (water and postal
sectors being the first).

7.      It should be noted that in the 1990s, postal sector reform was a pioneering exercise.
Developed countries were only starting to deregulate their postal services and open them for
private sector participation. There were no examples of successful postal sector reform and
privatization in developing countries, and no reliable data for benchmarking purposes. The TT
Postal Project was an important pioneering exercise that served as a landmark for subsequent
efforts in this area.




                                                   3

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.     The PDOs were:

  · Greatly improve postal service by expanding its coverage and quality while achieving
      major efficiency gains and introducing new products and services in response to growing
      client needs. Extremely poor service quality and coverage would be replaced by faster,
      more secure mail delivery for almost all citizens, with an increase in the variety of services
      provided.

  · Increase private sector participation.


9.     These objectives were consistent with the Government's reform strategy and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The reform followed two phases. In the first phase, a
Delegated Management Arrangement (DMA) in the form of a performance-based, incentive
management contract was to be implemented--leading to private management of the newly
corporatized post office. During the second phase, a Long Term Arrangement (LTA) would
establish a sustainable framework for the sector's commercial operation, deepening private
sector participation and further deregulation of postal products, with new private operators
entering the market. The PAD envisioned that LTA would involve TTPost privatization or other
form of increased private sector participation. To that end, the PAD established the following
key monitoring indicators:
  · Transformation of the present post office, a government department, into a commercially
      viable and responsive corporation which would in turn result in:

         (i)   Increased use of postal services

        (ii)   Elimination of fiscal transfers of TT$10-15 million

       (iii)   An estimated 40 percent reduction in manpower

        (iv)   Delivery to 90 percent of the country within 24 hours

        (v)    Major improvement in customer satisfaction

        (vi)   Nearly universal delivery to homes and businesses

       (vii)   Offering of new services.

  · Agreement with a new international postal operator that would achieve agreed
      performance indicators.

  · Deregulation of the domestic postal market that may lead to at least two or more new
      private operators, particularly in the courier service market.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority),
and reasons/justification

10.    The Project Development Objectives were not revised. With regard to the Key
Monitoring Indicators, in the cases where target values had not been established in the PAD, the
project assumed the targets established in the Delegated Management Agreement (DMA)




                                                  4

between the Government and the operator as a proxy for the PAD targets, but the indicators
themselves were not changed.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.     The main beneficiaries were consumers, businesses, government and labor. Consumers
would benefit from low-cost, high quality, market-responsive postal service. Major beneficiaries
would be groups without communication alternatives or adequate postal service before the
reforms. Business would benefit from improved service in mass mailing. Government would
benefit through a reduction in the fiscal burden, and labor through increased training, a better
work environment and practices and performance-linked rewards. The PAD envisioned that the
postal service would reduce the labor force through voluntary separation packages.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

12.     The Project included four components:

  · Voluntary separation assistance (VSEP), to support the reduction in the work force,
      financed by the Government (PAD US$2.7 million, actual US$2.2 million);
  · Private-sector participation support to develop and implement a strategy for increase
      private participation (PAD US$6.75 million, actual US$5.4 million);
  · Rehabilitation and modernization of postal facilities and equipment (PAD US$10.4
      million, actual US$17.0 million);
  · Institutional strengthening to ensure the timely disbursement of funds and the monitoring
      and evaluation of the management contract during the five years of the management
      contract (PAD US$1.2 million, actual US$1.4 million).


13.     In addition, contingency funds of US$2 million were included in the budget.

1.6 Revised Components

14.     The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

15.     The project's closing date was extended twice, for a total of 21 months. This was mainly
due to the 2002 change in government and related personnel and policy changes (see Section
2.2), restructuring of ministries whereby the project PIU was moved from its original home in
the Ministry of Public Utilities to the Ministry of Communications, and then back again. Also
contributing to delay is the extended period the government is taking to develop the LTA (also
discussed in Section 2.2).

16.     Component 3 included provision for construction of a new mail center. However, in
2000, the Government decided to forgo Bank financing for the center and chose to use its own
funding in an effort to facilitate completion. Accordingly, Bank financing for Component 3 (and
the overall loan amount) was reduced by US$3.4 million, and the new center was completed with
Government funds (although other refurbishment and infrastructure upgrades utilized Bank
funding as envisioned).




                                                  5

17.       Component 2 originally included a provision to reform the Postal Savings Bank,
however, as the private banking sector was already well developed, the Government and TTPost
decided simply to close the Postal Savings Bank.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18.       Project preparation was thorough and supported by detailed diagnosis and
recommendations by an international consulting firm. Planning began in 1994 with a series of
conferences, seminars and analyses. These consensus- building activities were instrumental in
achieving agreement among key stakeholders of the proposed reform, which allowed for
implementation of difficult reform measures, such as the voluntary separation program, prior to
the start of the management contract.1 This was an important achievement, as opposition to
work force reduction in the highly unionized postal sector has been a main cause of postal reform
failure in many countries. There were also a number of international workshops with major
postal operators, which were intended to ensure that expectations for increased private sector
participation in TTPost were realistic, and that meaningful competition for the management
contract could be achieved. The competitive award of the contract to New Zealand Post (later
renamed Transend), was again a significant achievement, as this was one of the earliest postal
management contracts aimed at universal service awarded in a developing country.

19.       The Government and Bank teams carefully analyzed available instruments for TTPost
transformation and opted for a management contract. The current best practice on management
contracts acknowledges the benefits of this modality in situations where deeper form of private
sector participation may not be feasible, due, for example, to a need to demonstrate potential
profitability of the utility. (See Annex 10 for a detailed assessment of the management contract).
The PAD correctly acknowledged that full privatization was not immediately feasible, as
TTPost's commercial viability was uncertain. Even the level of subsidization was uncertain as
financial management and accounting systems were extremely poor. The international
workshops made clear that potential investors were not ready to assume ownership risks.
Furthermore, there was not yet a sufficient consensus for a more radical form of private sector
participation, such as concession or equity sale.

20.       The project team also applied lessons from public utility reform projects and management
contracts elsewhere, as well as the first limited experiences with postal sector reform, including:

  · Corporate transformation of a post office by itself is not sufficient to achieve efficiency
        gains; it needs to be combined with: (i) policy that provides flexibility to the postal entity
        while protecting social interests; (ii) institutional development and capacity building; and
        (iii) access to capital to improve and expand the postal network.
  · Applying recommendations from a review of Bank's technical assistance projects2, the
        project was designed to set narrow, specific objectives (primarily improvement of the

1 The Union Network International has acknowledged the Bank attitude to the union as unusually open and appreciated that
unions were given greater voice in the design and implementation of the project ­ UNI-Americas Postal Committee: Privatizing
the Post: The World Bank's role in Americas, 2000, www.union-network.org

2 Committee on Development Effectiveness: Perspectives on Technical Assistance Loans, World Bank, 1996.



                                                              6

       quality and coverage of postal services). These objectives were correspondingly translated
       into specific targets in the management contract.

  · The project design included a comprehensive review of management contract experience
       and applied key lessons, including: (i) the need for management contracts to be self-
       contained and as clear and specific as possible; (ii) the importance of making the
       agreement between two parties only (government and managing operator); (iii) the focus
       on transparent performance targets, clear incentives and remedies for noncompliance; and
       (iv) the inclusion of an objective review process by an independent party. Bidding criteria
       for choosing the managing company included its experience in similar situations and its
       proposed human resource plan and change management strategy. The Bank financed the
       management contract fee on a declining basis (with the rest financed by the Government).
       The work force was reduced prior to the issue of the management contract (see next
       paragraph) to give managing company greater freedom in human resource management.
       The proposed reforms were backed by a new Postal Sector Act of 1999, which transformed
       TTPost from a government department to a corporation and liberalized the delivery of
       parcel and a partially letter service.

21.      The postal workforce was 1,850 prior to the start of reforms, 1,100 after pre-project
retrenchment, and 1,186 at project close.

22.      This careful project design contributed significantly to the project achievements, and they
stand in sharp contrast to an earlier experience with a management contract in the water sector.
The ICR for Trinidad and Tobago Water Sector Institutional Reform Project identifies among the
key causes of the project's unsuccessful outcome: lack of political consensus, lack of adequate
legislation, and the design of the management contract itself.3

23.      However, the design also suffered from a common and important weakness of utility
reform projects of late 1990s, excessive optimism, which was reflected in:

24.      Unrealistic projections of mail volume: It was expected that the restoration of reliable
service would lead to a surge in mail volume, but the extent of substitution by other means was
not taken into account. As a result, TTPost mail volumes and corresponding revenue were lower
than anticipated. TTPost's successful efforts to develop new business lines, which exceeded
targets, were not sufficient to offset the relative stagnation of mail volumes.

25.      Underestimation of cost of providing universal service: There is an expanding literature
on the costs and financing of postal universal service obligations (USO).4 Various studies show
that due to relatively low mail volumes in developing countries, it is difficult to combine the
objective of financial sustainability with the provision of universal service, even where postal
operators benefit from reserved market segments (i.e., those in which only TTPost can operate).
Therefore, either universal service standards have to be limited or there needs to be additional,
sustainable sources of funding. This analytical work, however, was not yet available during
project design. The project attempted to simultaneously reach universal service, first class
service quality and financial sustainability, and assumed that the additional costs of the high

3 The ICR (Report # 20057) identifies poor design of the management contract, with an inadequate framework for incentives
and penalties, as a key element in this component's unsuccessful implementation.
4 See for example, Oxera: "Universal Service Obligations in the Postal Sector," January 2007; Kenny, Charles: "Reforming the
Posts; Abandoning the Monopoly-supported Postal Universal Service Obligation in Developing Countries; AEI ­ Brookings Joint
Center for Regulatory Studies, 2005; Universal Postal Union: Guide to Postal Reform and Development, 2005 ­ www.upu.int.



                                                               7

quality universal service provision would be covered through revenue growth and cost reductions
by efficient private sector management. This assumption turned out to be unrealistic. As a result,
TTPost losses increased during the project period, but TTPost is still obligated to a high USO
standard. With the benefit of hindsight, one could imagine a better balance between universal
service and financial sustainability targets (see Section 6 for more detail). This has become a
major issue with consequences for the project's final outcome rating.

26.     High expectations for private sector solutions: The project was designed in the second
half of the 1990s at the peak of the privatization wave. It was expected that the DMA contract
would quickly demonstrate the benefits of private sector management, and that there will be a
smooth transition to the second phase of reform involving a deeper form of private sector
participation such as concession or sale. The privatization trend and private sector investment
flows, however, subsided in the following years in all infrastructure sectors, and even more so in
the postal sector, where 97 percent of postal operators (worldwide) currently remain under state
ownership. In Trinidad and Tobago, none of the infrastructure utilities have been privatized.
Furthermore, the 2002 elections brought an opposition government which promoted more
gradual, locally-driven reform processes. As a result, the path toward the LTA took longer than
anticipated and the final solution (increased corporatization) fell short of the contemplated
privatization and full scale liberalization.

27.     Insufficient emphasis on regulatory capacity: During the project period, the Regulated
Industries Commission (RIC) was just established and still had insufficient capacity to regulate
the postal sector. The issue of regulation and regulatory capacity should have been dealt with in
the context of this project.

28.     Over-optimism regarding the political will to implement tariff increases required to make
a postal service viable over the long run. The DMA was rather vague with respect to the
Government obligations related to the tariff increase. No automatic formula for a tariff increase
(such as inflation-based adjustment) was established, and in principle, Government could opt for
subsidization instead of tariff increase.

2.2     Implementation

29.     Project implementation was successful in the early years of the management contract.
Through competitive bidding, in July 1998 the Government contracted management of TTPost to
New Zealand Post International Limited (NZPIL, later renamed Transend).5 As noted, the
voluntary separation scheme was fully implemented, reducing the workforce from 1,850 to
1,100. The Government honored its obligations by granting tariff increases in 1999 and 2000. As
a result, Transend was able to quickly turn around TTPost performance, achieving most DMA
targets in 1999 and 2000.

30.     The 2002 elections, however, and subsequent government actions slowed progress.
Implementation was hindered by the approach of elections and the delay in forming a new
government; responsibility for the postal service was also moved from the Ministry of Public
Utilities to the Ministry of Communication, which resulted in changes in cognizant policy
officials, a complete turnover in the PIU staff, and brought the work of the PIU to a standstill

5 The management contract was a condition for negotiations. Its design was supported by the Project Preparation Fund.




                                                             8

(see Section 5.2.(B)). The project was rated unsatisfactory on Implementation Progress and was
considered a problem project.

31.     During this 2-year hiatus, the absence of government counterparts produced delays in
preparation of the LTA and implementation of the TTPost capital investment program. PIU had
inadequate communication, as the ministry did not provide adequate telephone or email access.
These actions by the government significantly hindered project progress, and disbursements
stagnated.

32.     Considering the slower reform, the Bank spent much of the first year of the new
administration working to re-establish a commitment to the project and to overall postal sector
reform. The change in government also coincided with a change in the Bank task manager, and
the assignment of four TTPost managing directors in the last four years of the DMA, which
adversely affected project's continuity.

33.     In 2003, the project was once again relocated back to the (renamed) Ministry of
Industries and Environment, and a new minister took office who re-elevated the priority of postal
sector reform. Email and telephone service was restored, and progress restarted. In 2003-2004,
numerous studies, workshops and consultations were launched to define the LTA that would best
ensure TTPost operational sustainability. The accumulated delays, however, meant the LTA
would not be ready by the original DMA closure in mid-2004, and the DMA was extended until
December 2005, and the project extended until September 2006 to facilitate TTPost's transition
to the LTA. By the project's end, the Government decided on the LTA form, establishing
TTPost as a state-owned limited liability company operating under commercial principles (albeit
with an important social role to play) and under RIC, with a possible future increase in private
sector participation (see Section 2.5). TTPost management passed to a competitively selected
local management team. By the project's end, although most DMA targets had not been fully
met--most importantly, it was still running a deficit--TTPost was operating as a more efficient
commercial enterprise, with a highly competent management team and well-developed business
culture, providing high quality service to virtually all households, businesses, Government and
other establishments.

34.     TTPost's upgrade of postal facilities and infrastructure, financed in part through the loan,
was implemented without major problems. The Ministry's support of postal reform over the
project's last three years was the main force behind the project's ultimate achievements.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

35.     M&E Design. The PAD established key monitoring indicators as described in Section
1.2 above. Most target values were also set by the PAD, but where that was not the case these
were provided in the DMA.

36.     As described elsewhere in this evaluation, the targets established were overly ambitious,
and most indicators relating to the first PDO were not met (see Section 3.2). Some key
performance targets, especially elimination of fiscal transfers and establishment of nearly
universal home delivery, coupled with the next-day delivery requirement for all households, were
partially inconsistent, as in a situation of low overall postal volume the expense related to the
latter hindered accomplishment of the former.




                                                  9

37.     M&E Implementation. The Project funded an annual review by an outside consultant of
the performance of the DMA monitoring indicators. The consultant reviewed management
reports and customer surveys, tested on-time delivery, and inspected infrastructure
improvements. These reports provided important feedback to TTPost and the Government during
implementation. Moreover, they provided important intermediate measures by which to assess
performance under the LTA.

38.     M&E Utilization and Sustainability. Under the DMA, the Government and TTPost
used consultant reports to track progress on the PDOs and identify areas needing attention

39.     A problem with many management contracts was that they did not have clear indicators
or an effective way to measure them. In this case, the project had both. As a result, they were
enforceable, and payments to the management operator were based on achievement or non-
achievement of the indicators. The independent review was important in that respect as it was
accepted by both the Government and the contractor. However, these reports covered only the
original period of the DMA, not the additional period after project extension, resulting in only
sporadic data after mid-2004. At project closure, the proposed LTA proposed more realistic
values for the monitoring indicators, with achievement being monitored by the regulator.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

40.     There were no issues with Bank safeguard or fiduciary compliance. However, the PIU
financial management capacity was weak (see Section 5.2 (B)), and the unit required
considerable support from Bank specialists. While several project audits were delivered late, all
were unqualified. It should be noted that TTPost had significant financial management
problems, for which the Bank provided technical assistance. To address these inadequacies, the
Bank FM team worked closely with TTPost to develop and implement an Action Plan, and the
Project financed a comprehensive upgrade of financial management and information systems.
As a result, the last audit received for 2005-2006 was on time and unqualified, acknowledging
satisfactory resolution by TTPost of substantial qualifications raised in the past audits.

Procurement

41.     The project procurement team (in TTPost) demonstrated good capacity and integrity, and
carried out its procurement responsibility in a satisfactory manner. The last two years were
particularly intensive as a number of large post office refurbishment contracts were executed.
This was a challenge as civil works suffered delays due to a high level of construction activity in
the country, which in a few cases led to unsatisfactory performance due to labor shortages. As
an example, contracts for refurbishment of six delivery offices was terminated and remaining
works awarded to other contractors. The TTPost procurement team was strengthened during the
last two years of implementation and adequately responded to these challenges.

Disbursement

42.     For much of the implementation period, the Project lacked a qualified project accountant.
With no qualified accountant, the Bank could not disburse funds to the Special Account. As a
result, the Bank disbursed directly to vendors, contractors, and consultants, based on requests for
disbursement from the PIU. Over time, Bank staff, PIU staff and TTPost staff developed an
effective working relationship.




                                                 10

43.     This unorthodox arrangement was acceptable to both the Bank and the Borrower. The
Bank accepted it because of several earlier incidents in the country where special accounts could
not be reconciled. Disbursement officials felt that the extra work involved on the part of the
Bank in this project was worthwhile due to the decreased risk, while there was little or no impact
on the Borrower. Most payments to vendors were processed efficiently, with an occasional delay
or mistake in submission of disbursement requests.

44.     By the time a qualified accountant was hired, the PIU and Bank staff had become
accustomed to using direct disbursements, and the Special Account remained unused throughout
implementation. Overall, PIU staff learnt to use the system of direct disbursement effectively to
assure timely disbursement to vendors, contractors, and consultants, even during the rush of the
last year of the project.

Financial Management and Audit Reports

45.     As noted earlier, project financial audits were unqualified although a few were completed
late. PIU financial management weaknesses are discussed in Section 5.2 (B).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

46.     During the final years of the DMA, the Ministry engaged in extensive consultation
regarding the Postal Service LTA, including extensive analysis by outside consultants,
consultation within the Government, and discussions with stakeholders. By the end of the
project, the Government developed a draft Postal Sector Policy (now in the last stage of public
consultations and expected to be adopted shortly) and choose the LTA form. While additional
detail is presented in Annex 11, Vision 20/20, postal sector policy and LTA together establish
the policy and institutional framework for TTPost's future operations, including:

     · The Vision 20/20 and the draft Postal Sector Policy note clarify the roles of TTPost as the
       service provider and the Government's role as policy-maker, shareholder and regulator.

     · The LTA calls for a continued "transformation into an effective commercial enterprise,"
       partnerships with the private sector, and adequate capitalization, among other things.
       TTPost would have managerial autonomy for day-to-day operations. LTA allows for
       increased private sector participation in TTPost in the future.

     · The Government would require TTPost to continue meeting the USO, but it would be set
       and financed on a sustainable basis. This includes: (i) adjustments to USO targets to bring
       them to more realistic levels; (ii) annual tariff adjustment mechanism managed by the
       regulator; and (iii) targeted subsidies to cover marginal costs of TTPost's provision of
       universal service.

     · TTPost would be regulated by RIC, which has established a good track record regulating
       the electricity and water sectors. RIC will supervise, monitor and inspect TTPost to ensure
       compliance with regulations and licensing conditions. RIC will regulate tariffs,
       competition (continuing gradual liberalization process) and service quality in reserved
       areas, including compliance with USO obligations.

47.     In terms of future reform strategy, in the context of LTA preparation the Bank advocated
gradual sector liberalization within the framework of a broad Postal Sector Policy that clarifies
the roles of all parties--TTPost, Ministry, other operators, regulator. The present draft Postal



                                                  11

Sector Policy establishes an objective of continued liberalization, managed by the regulator.
This phased approach is in line with best world practice. The European Union reduced the
reserved area from a level of 2kg over a 10-year period and is still debating whether markets will
be fully liberalized in 2009. The Government is also following international postal best practice
in strengthening the operator and regulator prior to market liberalization.6

48.       Although the Postal Sector Policy and LTA have not yet been formally adopted, they are
in the last stage of the consultation process and are supported by a consensus of all stakeholders.
Draft Postal Sector Policy has been prepared in a transparent, participatory manner; the draft and
the consultation program have been disclosed by the Ministry at
www.ttdraftpostalsectorpolicy.org. At the time of writing this ICR, it is the expectation that both
documents will be formally adopted within a few months.

49.       Looking forward to the next phase, the project set TTPost on the right path but specific
actions still need to be implemented to ensure its ultimate success. Postal sector reform is a
long-term process, and success mainly depends on Government's continued commitment as
reflected in the conclusion of agreed actions:

          Formal adoption and implementation of postal sector policy and the LTA;
          Continued corporatization of TTPost and increased managerial autonomy, while
          enhancing TTPost accountability for results (such as through performance-based
          contracts);
          Increasing tariffs and setting up a periodical tariff /service review under RIC;
          Properly costing universal service obligations and agreement on output-based payments
          to TTPost for USO;
          Transfer of postal properties to TTPost and providing conditions for TTPost to be able to
          fund future investment programs.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

50.       Relevance was substantial. The Bank strategy at project inception proposed "small and
focused interventions to strengthen delivery of key public services and develop regulatory
capacity" in a number of sectors (water and postal sectors being the first). The approach
recognized the economic benefits that a more efficient and financially viable postal service could
provide.

51.       The project remains relevant to current country priorities today. The Trinidad and
Tobago strategy document Vision 20/20 sets the objective of reaching Developed Country Status
by 2020, and among other things calls for provision of world-class postal services. The
Government recognizes the need for TTPost to act as a commercial entity and Vision 20/20
supports completion of the reform and transformation of TTPost into a regulated limited liability

6 It should also noted that a majority of countries still have a reserved area of 2,000g, according to the UPU statistics. Some 60
countries have moved towards a greater liberalization, but only 17 have no reserved area. The common reserve area in the EU
countries is 50g. That could be an appropriate target for Trinidad, but it should be kept in mind that liberalization of all mail
above 50g would have only a limited effect, as 95% of mail volume is below 50g. In any case, it would be advisable to establish
an adequate postal regulatory capacity before liberalization.




                                                                  12

company with certain reserved areas and the commercial freedom to expand into new, non-
traditional products and services (see Annex 11).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Project Development Objective 1: Greatly Improved Service

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

52.      The first objective was to greatly improve postal service by expanding coverage and
quality, achieving major efficiency gains, and introducing new products and services in response
to growing client needs. Toward that end, the PAD established seven monitoring indicators and
levels of performance related to quality of service and financial outcomes: (i) increased use of
postal services; (ii) elimination of annual fiscal transfers; (iii) 40% reduction in manpower; (iv)
improved on-time delivery; (v) major improvement in customer satisfaction; (vi) near-universal
delivery to homes and businesses; (vii) offering of new services. The DMA elaborated by
adding one indicator (total revenue, as a proxy for use of postal services) and establishing
specific targets for Universal Service, Customer Satisfaction, and on-time delivery; Table 1
below shows the baseline before the start of the reform (1996)7, first audited results in the Year 1
of the DMA (1999), target and actuals for the Year 5 of the DMA, and the latest available data
for 2005/06 for the extended project period.

Achievement for PDO 1

53.        As shown in Table 1, although major improvements were made in postal service, 4 of the
7 targets were not met upon completion of DMA. Most importantly, while the physical targets
improved substantially, the losses actually increased. As noted earlier, with the relatively low
volume of mail in developing countries, it is difficult to attain financial sustainability while
meeting first class standards of universal service. The underlying assumption was that the
additional costs of providing universal service would be more than offset by revenue growth and
efficiency gains, which turned out to be unrealistic. TTPost losses actually increased during the
project period. Therefore, outcome for objective 1 is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

54.      It should be noted that the Government has completed its own assessment, resulting in
satisfactory rating of PDO1 (see Section 7: Comments on Issues Raised by
Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners). The Government weights the achievement of the
physical, universal service targets more harshly than the achievement of the financial targets.

55.      (a) Increased Use of Postal Services and Growth in Postal Revenue: As with some
other indicators, revenue (as a proxy for increased use of postal service) grew substantially over
the project period. It fell short of the target in 2004 (Year 5 DMA target), subsequently, the
2004 revenue target figure was achieved in 2006 during the extended DMA period. The project
had assumed revenue growth achieved from price increases, growth in the economy, new
business, and originally included stamp duty revenues.


7 The project preparation started in 1996. Some reform measures were implemented before the loan effectiveness in 1999,
including the voluntary separation program, and the award of the management contract, supported by Government budget, PPF
and PHRD grant.




                                                              13

                        Table 1: Project Performance Indicators, Targets and Actual


                                                   1996                  1999                   2004                Latest
                                                                                                                   available
                                         Baseline (estimate)      Actual (first
                                                                  audited year)      Target          Actual      Actual

                         Original                47,000                 62,409          95,020          ---           ---
Revenue
(TT$m)              Revised (without                                                    84,7201       76,293        85,912
                      stamp duty)8               36,700                   ---
                                                                                                                    (2006)
                         Original               (13,000)                (4,353)          9,840          ---           ---
Net Income
(loss) (TT$m)       Revised (without                                                                               (24,758)
                      stamp duty)9              (23,300)                  ---            4,173        (5,949)       (2006)

                                                                                         1,110         1,100         1183
Manpower3                                         1,850                  1,370          (2000)        (2000)        (2006)
                                         N/A but estimated a
                                         letter would take on                                                        88.3
                                         average 7-10 days to             67               96          82.30        (2005)
On-Time Delivery (%)10                   deliver
                                         Estimated below
Customer Satisfaction (%)                50%                              75               84          79.35         N/A

                                                                                                                      96
Universal Service (%)                    About 50%                        61               95          96.90        (2006)
                                                                                                                    19.78
New business revenues (TT$m)             0                                 --           15,879        16,319        (2006)
Source: Baseline: PAD, DMA; 1999-2004: Postal Policy Consulting Services. "Report on Performance Targets, Years 1- 5,"
1999-2004, Latest available (2005/6) TTPost audited financial statements, TTPost strategic and business plans, TTPost transit
time survey, March 2005.

56.       The revenue target was adjusted in 2003 to account for a new estimate of stamp duty
revenues. Stamp duties were government revenues collected via the postal service, such as fees
for marriage licenses or property transfers. These fees or taxes were paid for by the purchase of a
postage stamp, and therefore they (incorrectly) appeared as TTPost postal revenues. The postal
reform removed these services from the postal office. Therefore, the future revenue targets took
into consideration the "loss" of stamp duty revenues. Unfortunately, however, due to the lack of
accounting information, the full extent of the use of stamp duty was not known until a
comprehensive audit was carried out in 2003. By then it was established that the total value of
stamp duty revenues was TT$10.3 million. Subsequently, the revenue and net income targets
were adjusted.

57.       The revenue was also affected by a number of additional adverse industry trends. When
the project was designed in the late 1990s, worldwide growth in mail growth was strong. Since
2000 the postal world has felt the effects of electronic substitution, and mail volumes have
stabilized in many countries. Another key factor affecting revenue growth was the government's
failure to raise tariffs, as well as the failure to transfer postal properties to TTPost (despite a
specific commitment to do so in the DMA). Some of these properties could have been
commercially exploited and therefore generating revenues for TTPost. Finally, revenue was
adversely affected by the decrease in terminal dues payments from other countries (system

8 The target was revised to compensate for the "loss" of stamp duty revenue. Stamp duty was a Government revenue collected
through the post office and therefore incorrectly recorded in postal revenues. The postal reform removed this revenue from
TTPost. The value of post duty was not known until a comprehensive audit in 2003 when it was estimated at US$10.3 million.
The original revenue and net income baseline values and the targets were therefore adjusted correspondingly.
9 The manpower reduction was not a DMA target, but it was a PAD target.
10The achievement of the "on time delivery" target cannot be fully ascertained as definition of "on-time delivery" changed
during the project implementation.



                                                                14

through which post offices compensate each other for mail delivery) related to an overall
reduction of international mail to Trinidad and Tobago.

58.      During the DMA, over 20 percent of total revenue came from new products and services
See indicator 7, below). However, the increased revenue was insufficient to overcome lower
than anticipated growth in other areas.

59.      In physical terms, mail volume nearly doubled between 1996 and 2006, growing from
about 30 million mail items per year in 1996 to 41 million in 2000 and 58 million in 2006. (See
annex 12 for details).

60.       (b) Improved net income: The revised11 target required TTPost to improve net income
to a profit of TT$4.1 million. This was not achieved, and losses actually increased during the
project period. This resulted from lower-than-expected core (mail) revenue, high costs associated
with having nationwide, world-class, next day delivery service, and the lack of tariff increases.

61.      The government and the Bank made a deliberate decision to provide universal service
while at the same time attempting to operate a profitable postal service. Unfortunately, at the
time of the project design, there were few examples of the postal sector reforms in developing
countries, and only few European economies were just embarking on comprehensive
privatization and liberalization reform. The extent of the trade-off between universal access and
postal profitability was not analyzed yet. TTPost was a pioneering transaction in postal sector
reform. Since then, a number of publications have become available.12 Once this trade-off
became apparent, however, the Government still chose to keep high service standards, despite
the high losses. The Government decided instead to pay a subsidy for the universal service. The
conflict between the two goals has not yet been resolved, and in the context of the LTA the
government has struggled to develop a formula to bridge this gap.13 The LTA discussions
resulted in an agreement to reduce some of the targets, such as transit time, while targeting better
the Government subsidy against specific universal access performance targets.14

62.      A major lesson is that quality-of-service targets should reflect local conditions and
demand. Trinidad and Tobago may have set quality of service targets too high, and reserved
services may not generate sufficient revenue to cover the additional cost of these service levels.
During the LTA, the service targets may require additional adjustments for TTPost to operate
effectively in the market (See Section 6 for detailed discussion of lessons learned). A final factor
affecting net income was the lack of tariff increase, delays to transfer TTPost properties, and
Government decision to provide larger-than-expected wage increases to civil servants--which
also affected TTPost workers.

63.      The failure to reduce losses or at least to set TTPost on a loss-reduction trend is the key
reason the first objective of greatly improved services is rated (moderately) unsatisfactory.


11 The net income target was revised several times, reflecting changes in the underlying assumptions, such as stamp duty
revenues. The original target was TT$9.84 million.
12 See for example, Oxera: "Universal Service Obligations in the Postal Sector," January 2007; Kenny Charles: "Reforming the
Posts; Abandoning the Monopoly-supported Postal Universal Service Obligation in Developing Countries AEI ­ Brookings, Joint
Center for Regulatory Studies, 2005; Universal Postal Union: Guide to Postal Reform and Development, 2005 ­ www.upu.int.
13This is partly due to absence of detailed financial information from TTPost. To overcome this information gap, the project
financed a product-cost model which should provide detailed information needed to calculate the exact costs of USO. The
product-costing model will also help to justify a tariff increase.
14 These decisions are reflected in the draft Postal Sector Policy and LTA.




                                                                  15

64.       (c) Decrease in staffing: As shown, the retrenchment of staff prior to project
effectiveness met the target of a 40 percent decrease in staffing.

65.       (d) On-time delivery: The achievement of the "on time delivery" target cannot be fully
ascertained as definition of "on-time delivery" changed during the project implementation. It
should be noted that the PAD's target was 96% of next-day (D+1) delivery for the urban areas
(90% of the country), and 48-hours delivery (D+2) for the remaining 10% of the country.
Subsequently, however, a stricter target of 96% of only next-day delivery in all Trinidad and
Tobago was applied. The subsequent measurements therefore concentrated on the next-day
target. From 1999 to 2004, on-time next-day delivery improved from 52 percent to 76 percent,
and then again to 88% by 2006 but performance did not meet the target of 96 percent. In
retrospect, the target for on-time delivery for the whole country was unrealistic, especially
considering the low per capita mail volume--38 per capita, significantly below the 650 in the
United States and 350 in the European Union, the lack of infrastructure in remote rural areas, and
unreliable transport between Trinidad and Tobago.

66.       TTPost data, however, show that the original PAD target might have been achievable.15
The measurement methodology for the original PAD target was never developed. TTPost's draft
strategic plan returns to and further advances the original PAD concept, contemplating D+1, D+2
and D+3 service levels depending on the delivery point.

67.       (e) Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI): CSI improved, though the last measurement was
less than envisioned. CSI results were based on independently-conducted surveys assessing
business and householder perceptions of service, access, convenience, appearance and quality of
retail services. The DMA established annual targets for CSI. The measurements allowed for +/-
5% margin error. All targets in 1999-2003 were met except for the last measurement in 2004
which suddenly fell to 79.4%, missing the 84% target, even applying the margin of error.
Unfortunately CSI was discontinued after 2004. Therefore, it cannot be ascertained if the 2004
was an anomaly or a reverse in a positive trend.

68.       (f) Universal Service: This target was met; in five years, Trinidad and Tobago postal
service improved from serving only half the population to almost 97 percent. The number of
delivery points nearly doubled, from around 200,000 in 1999 to almost 370,000. The increase in
usage was gradual; mail volume rose by an average 9 percent per year, significantly above the
norm of the postal sector worldwide but inadequate to provide sufficient revenue to reduce
losses. The consequence of the increased access to delivery services was that the average
number of items per delivery point fell from 190 to 150 per year ­ implying greater service
provision costs.

69.       (g) New Services: TTPost has successfully expanded into new services, which provided
25 percent of revenue in 2005. These included bill pay services, an appointment service for US
visas, courier services, business reply/free post, sales of wireless phones and pre-paid phone
cards, and other business services (see section 3.5.b). TTPost also provides advisory services to
other Caribbean postal offices.



15 96% of next-day mail delivered in 90% of the country would translate to 86% nation-wide, below 88% next-day delivery
currently provided by TTPost (assuming that these 88% are in the urban, next-day delivery area).




                                                             16

Project Development Objective 2: Increase Private Sector Participation

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.       The PAD envisioned a two-phase approach to increased private sector participation. In
Phase 1 a Delegated Management Arrangement (DMA) in the form of a performance-based
management contract would lead to private management of the newly corporatized post office.
During Phase 2, a Long Term Arrangement (LTA) would deepen private sector participation.
The PAD envisioned that LTA would involve TTPost privatization or other form of increased
private sector participation and further deregulation of postal products, with new private
operators entering the market.

71.       The PAD monitoring indicators for the second objective included those for objective 1,
in terms of improved performance, as well as (i) an expectation that an international postal
operator would be contracted to assist TTPost to achieve agreed performance indicators; and (ii)
that the domestic market would be deregulated, potentially leading to at least 2 or more new
private operators entering the market--especially in the courier services market. It was also
expected that international courier services would broaden their domestic operations as the mail
monopoly was reduced.

72.       Overall Assessment of PDO 2: The ICR rates achievement of Objective 2 as
moderately satisfactory. Although full privatization was not achieved and the LTA has not yet
been finalized, other achievement in increased private sector participation outweighs these
shortcomings.

73.       Privatization: The expectation that TTPost would be completely privatized was not met.
In retrospect, this was an overly-optimistic expectation; worldwide, 97 percent of post offices
remain wholly government-owned, and the country was not ready to make this move in terms of
policy or regulatory capacity.

74.       DMA: The DMA was satisfactorily implemented and extended beyond the original
contract period to allow the management contractor to coach new local management. This
international expertise helped transform TTPost into a professional, customer-focused business
providing world class service and customer satisfaction. The success of the transformation is also
seen in the fact that TTPost is now expanding its advisory services, assisting other Caribbean
postal corporations.

75.       LTA: The LTA was due to start at the end of the DMA but was delayed due to the
circumstances described earlier as well as to provide additional time for the Government to
design an appropriate model. The current expectation is that TTPost will be established as a
Government owned-corporation operating on commercial principles and regulated by the RIC.
The LTA model the Government is following is similar to that of other post offices in the world
that operate postal services on commercial principles. Further, recent Bank research on utility
reform suggests that management on the basis of commercial principles is at least as important as
ownership.16


16See for example Trujillo, Perelman, Estache; Infrastructure Performance and Reform in Developing and Transition
Economies: Evidence from a survey of productivity measures; World Bank Policy Research Working Paper; 2005. A specific
postal sector study also concludes that privatization without effective regulation can produce worse results than corporatization
and various forms of management contract. See Walsh, Tim. Delivering Economic Development: Postal Infrastructures and
Sectoral Reform in Developing Countries. Consignia plc. London. 2001.




                                                                 17

76.     The objective of increased private sector participation was also addressed through two
additional mechanisms:

77.     Sector Growth and Competition: In terms of domestic and international courier
service, a number of weaker domestic couriers left the market. The remaining six international
and six local domestic couriers offer service in competition with TTPost (however, TTPost holds
a 90 percent market share of domestic business). These couriers could also operate in the
reserved area provided they do so at a minimum level above TTPost tariffs (5 times tariff).

78.     Outsourcing and joint ventures: TTPost reduced the number of owned post offices
from 75 in 1999 to 11 in 2006. It has a further 19 fully fledged post offices operating as
franchises with all other post offices as agents or stamp vendors paid on a percentage of
revenues. Such a system has led to reduced costs and more importantly an increase in the
number of retail outlets providing basic postal services. In addition, in some competitive market
segments, e.g. courier, TTPost has formed joint ventures with private firms.

79.     Comparison with International Best Practice: Trinidad and Tobago has an up to date
main facility with modern sorting equipment and management processes. Service compares
favorably with best world practice as shown in Table 2 below. It has higher levels of home
delivery than the USA, and a dense network of post offices that compares favorably to European
countries. The major concern is that the volume of mail does not compare favorably, with people
receiving only 5 percent of the volume received in Switzerland. Thus the country established a
postal organization with world access levels but with much lower mail volume, affecting its
financial sustainability.

                   Table 2: TTPost International Performance Comparisons, 2005


                            Annual         % Home Delivery    Inhabitants per   Revenues from
                       Letters per capita                       Post Office          Mail
 Trinidad and Tobago           38               97%               5,674               75%

 Brazil                        55               80%               14,875              62%

 Great Britain                356              100%               4,150               n/a

 Jamaica (2004)                23              40%*               4,642               70%
 Mexico                        7                87%               13,209              92%
 Panama                        4                20%               26,060              43%

 Switzerland                  749              100%               2,844               37%

 USA (2003)                   650               95%               8,028               94%
 Source: Figures from UPU Statistics, 2005



Project achievement by component is shown in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency

80.     The PAD does not provide a full cost-benefit analysis, given that benefits in terms of
improved service quality and universal access are difficult to quantify. Instead, the PAD
concentrates on financial analysis, based on the expected improvements in the TTPost financial
situation. Financial analysis, following PAD methodology, is included in Annex 3 and shows


                                                 18

that TTPost did not achieve a positive NPV, using discounted net income (loss) figures from
1999 to 2006 based on available financial information. As discussed above, this is the main
shortcoming of the project, caused by (i) unrealistic expectations regarding mail volume growth
and costs of universal access, and (ii) Government's lack of action regarding tariff increase and
vesting of properties, as well as higher wages granted to civil servants.17 TTPost tariff for a
standard 20g letter is TT$1 (US$0.16), significantly less than US or EU tariffs. TTPost has been
requesting a tariff increase to TT$1.5 (US$0.24), which, if granted, would significantly improve
its financial performance. The recently developed product-costing model will help to establish
the right level of tariff increase, as well as the USO subsidies.

81.      Because the monitoring indicator of improved net income is a measure of both efficacy
and efficiency, it is accorded a greater weight than the other indicators for the purpose of rating
overall outcome.

82.      Operational efficiency and productivity gains: TTPost operational efficiency and
productivity increased during the project period, as shown by the data in Table 3 below. The
increased efficiency of operation is reflected in the number of the delivery points per postal
service agent, increasing from 541 in 1999 to 784 in 2005.

                     Table 3: Productivity Gains I - Delivery Points per Postal Agent

 Information                       1999        2000         2001        2002         2003        2004        2005

 Delivery Points per postal          541         588          615          663        713         741            784
 service agent

Source: TTPost unpublished "Draft Report on Achievements," n.d.


83.      The consequence of the increase in access is that the average number of items per
delivery point has actually fallen from 190 items per year to 150 items per year between 2000
and 2006, even though TTPost mail volume have increased by about 50% during the same
period. This is because low volume access points have been incorporated, which require same
costs of service provision while generating low mail traffic and therefore also low revenues.
Without the requirement to double service access, the productivity gains would be even greater.


                                            Table 4: Subsidy 1997 and 2006

                                                1996 (before the project)                2006 (after the project)

Annual subsidy                               Estimated TT$ 23.3 million                       TT$24.7 million
                                             (without stamp duty)
As % of all Govt. subsidies and                               1.1%                                   0.2%
transfers
As % of Govt. total expenditure                               0.2%                                   0.1%
Source: TTPost financial statements, Trinidad and Tobago Central Bank




17 TTPost was not able to negotiate wage increases with the labor union as TTPost's two labor unions did not receive formal
recognition. Therefore TTPost had to accept general public employee salary increases authorized by the Government.



                                                              19

84.     Subsidy comparison: It should be noted that although the total subsidy has not been
reduced, the subsidy fell significantly in relative terms.

85.     Unit subsidy comparisons: Figure 1 shows the comparison of unit subsidy before and
after the project.

                                Figure 1: Unit Subsidy Comparisons

                                            Unit subsidy history


                       TT$ .000 per delivery point

                        200
                        180                                   Subsidy per delivery
                        160                                   point

                        140
                        120
                        100
                         80
                         60
                         40
                         20
                          0
                              1997     2000   2001  2002 2003  2004   2005    2006



                       Source: PAD (1997), TTPost (2000-2006)


86.     The initial subsidy drop reflects rapid efficiency gains through the voluntary separation
program. The increase between 2000 and 2004 reflects increasing marginal costs of serving
remote households.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

87.     The rating is based on:

           (i) Substantial relevance of the project development objectives and design.

          (ii) Project's unfavorable economic and financial analysis, with a negative NPV and
                increased TTPost losses over the project period.

          (iii) Partial achievement of the project development objectives. For Objective 1,
                based on clear realization of three of the seven monitoring indicators (with "on
                time delivery" being disputable, and considering the actual worsening of TTPost's
                net income, outcome is assessed as moderately unsatisfactory. For Objective 2,
                for which achievement was mixed, outcome is assessed as moderately satisfactory
                in terms of increased private sector participation.

88.     Though moderately unsatisfactory, the project should be acknowledged for its pioneering
character. Although it did not meet all its targets, it established one of the first examples of




                                                    20

successful postal transformation in low and middle income countries, and is often used as a
successful example and a benchmark for others.18

89.      It should be noted that the Government has completed its own assessment, resulting in
satisfactory rating of the Overall Outcome (see Section 7: Comments on Issues Raised by
Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners). The Government weights stronger the achievement
of the physical, universal service targets against the achievement of the financial targets. "While
the financial performance is indeed a key element in assessing PDO (a) above, one cannot
disregard or downgrade the significant contribution made in other areas identified above,
ultimately leading to a greatly improved postal service, being the core mandate contained in
PDO (a) above.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


90.      The PAD identified the main beneficiaries as consumers, local businesses, government
and labor. The benefits--though falling short of expectations--did accrue to the target groups as
envisioned, except for the Government (subsidy elimination).

         (1)       "Consumers would benefit from a low-cost, high quality and market responsive
         postal service. Major beneficiaries would be those groups without other communication
         alternatives and those who did not have adequate postal service before the reforms."

         The legacy of this project is the fact that virtually every house and business in Trinidad
         and Tobago has daily delivery service.

         (2)       "Similarly, local businesses would benefit from improved service in mass
         mailing, in addition to the benefits provided to the consumers."

         In addition to customer satisfaction levels, anecdotal evidence further supports the
         realization of this benefit. In 1998 businesses employed their own "delivery boys" to
         hand deliver mail in Port of Spain. Now, businesses have a choice of professional local
         couriers delivery same and next day services as well as the standard offering of TTPost.

         (3)       "Government would benefit through a reduction in the burden of supporting a
         large, loss-making enterprise."

         This has not happened, as the Government has chosen to maintain subsidies by not
         awarding tariff increases and by opting for high standards for universal service. The
         Government is now recognizing the need to target subsidies at specific universal service
         requirements rather than to cover commercial loss.

         (4)       "Labor through increased training, a better work environment and practices and
         performance-linked rewards."

         The work environment in general was improved, although unions raised concerns that
         training has not been sufficient. Union Network International acknowledges the benefits

18 See for example Guislain, Pierre; The Postal Sector in Developing and Transition Countries: Contributions to a Reform
Agenda; World Bank Working Paper, 2005; Kenny Charles: "Reforming the Posts; Abandoning the Monopoly-supported Postal
Universal Service Obligation in Developing Countries AEI ­ Brookings, Joint Center for Regulatory Studies, 2005. In 2004
TTPost also featured as a finalist in the corporate transformation category of the prestigious World Mail Awards.




                                                                 21

        to workers from improved working environment, such as refurbished offices, although it
        also points out to increased work loads.19

(A) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

91.     There were no measurable impacts on poverty reduction or on gender-related issues;
however a commitment to universal service disproportionately benefits the poor and those in
more isolated households with no alternatives. The focus on guaranteeing service to an otherwise
excluded segment of the population is part of the Government's goal of inclusiveness expressed
in its Vision 20/20 statement.

(B) Institutional Change/Strengthening

92.     While TTPost was vastly strengthened, other aspects of institutional development were
neglected. The most important institutional change was the development of a competitive,
efficient postal services operator. TTPost has expanded into new services, such as bill pay
services, and an appointment service for US visas. For businesses, TTPost provides courier
services, business reply/free post (competitions, fast return of payments and checks,
subscriptions, mail orders, questionnaires and survey forms, applications for service), direct mail,
and unaddressed mail (brochures, flyers, samples, questionnaires, newsletters, catalogs, business
directory). TTPost's expertise is widely acknowledged in the Caribbean and it is now providing
advisory services to other Caribbean postal offices.

93.     While the PIU at the Ministry of Public Utilities and Environment was strengthened in
the past few years, the Ministry still lacks sufficient expertise to manage the complex transition
to the LTA. Finally, as noted earlier, in retrospect the project should have included a component
to strengthen regulatory capacity in parallel with liberalizing the postal market.


(C) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

94.     There were no unintended outcomes or impacts.



3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops


Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

95.     On the side of reducing risk, Trinidad and Tobago's Vision 20/20 statement supports
completion of the reform and transforming TTPost into a regulated limited liability company
with certain reserved areas, and freedom to expand into non-traditional areas on commercial
basis. In addition, TTPost's draft LTA policy note calls for continued "transformation into an

19 Uni-Americas Postal Committee: Privatizing the Post: The World Bank's role in the Americas, 2000 at www.union-
network.org.




                                                            22

effective commercial enterprise," partnerships with the private sector, and adequate
capitalization.

96.     However, the Government and TTPost have committed to meeting the USO, with high
service standards, despite the extra cost. TTPost continues to lose money, and the government
has not yet developed a formula by which to reconcile its desire for high levels of service with
the cost of providing that service. The recently completed product-costing model should
facilitate this task.

97.     Also, while the transformation of TTPost into a commercial enterprise appears to be on
track, not all legal requirements had been met when this ICR was completed. The final phase of
public consultation for postal sector policy and LTA is in process at the time of writing this ICR,
demonstrating Government continued commitment to the reform20. Once the policy note is
approved and appropriate legislation passed, the transformation from the DMA to the LTA will
be complete. Given the extensive consultations, the support of key stakeholders, and consistency
with the Vision 20/20 objectives, the formal adoption of postal sector policy and the LTA should
not be problematic. Further, the postal sector transformation counts on broad political support,
as two Governments (each led by the two main political parties) have now been involved and
supportive of the process.

98.     However, even with the LTA enacted, certain risks remain. With TTPost a government-
owned corporation, there is some risk of political interference and loss of TTPost's commercial
orientation.

99.     Finally, the Government and TTPost have not completed measures that are important to
the long-term financial viability of the corporation. These include recognition as equity of the
Bank loan and the vesting of postal properties. In addition, while the LTA establishes general
principles for the USO and it's financing, TTPost and the Ministry will need to agree on the final
amount. A special TTPost Steering Committee, appointed by the Cabinet, is now pursuing this
question.

100.    It should be noted that the Government has completed its own assessment, resulting in
low/insignificant rating of the risk to development outcome (see section 7. Comments on Issues
Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners)

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance


(A) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

101.    Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory. Project
preparation included comprehensive studies and consultation processes. Past projects were
analyzed and lessons, to the extent possible, integrated in the project design. However, in many
cases, project assumptions were overly optimistic, which made achievement of some monitoring
indicators more difficult. (This may, in part, have been due to the pioneering nature of the

20The draft policy and consultation process is available at www.ttdraftpostalsectorpolicy.org.




                                                              23

project, with no comparable postal sector projects to serve as precedents). Also, in the context of
liberalizing the postal sector, greater emphasis should have been placed on building regulatory
capacity. For detailed assessment of the design, see Section 1.

(B) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

102.    Bank supervision was intensive, with three or four missions per year, and considerable
involvement of fiduciary and financial management experts. Despite this, the project suffered
continuous delays, particularly between 2002 and 2004, when the change of government
coincided with change of Bank task team leadership and relocation of the PIU, which disrupted
project continuity and made communication with the PIU difficult. The project team operated in
a complex environment, promoting major sector reform in the absence of an overall country
dialogue as the country graduated from IBRD funding (there is no CAS for Trinidad and
Tobago). Despite these challenges, the Bank succeeded in establishing an effective partnership
with the Ministry and TTPost, which allowed it to exert a positive influence on project direction.

103.    Both the Ministry and TTPost expressed their appreciation for the advice provided by
Bank experts on global postal trends and reform issues. Arguably, the project team could have
been more forceful in pressing for deeper reforms (such as full privatization, greater
liberalization, or elimination of all subsidies), and enforcing agreed actions. However, the
effectiveness of such an approach would have been reduced by the absence of an overall
assistance dialogue between the Bank and the Government. The project team therefore decided
to act as advisors and facilitators, with the Government finding its own preferred path. The
agreed path, while short of originally contemplated privatization, is consistent with current best
practices (see below). Given the high turnover of the project coordinators, the project team also
could have ensured better that PIU has access to all relevant project documents. Supervision is
rated moderately satisfactory.

(C) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

104.    Both project preparation and supervision were satisfactory and responsive to client needs.
Shortcomings include overly optimistic assumptions in project design, and delays in
implementation and information gaps, for which the project team was partially responsible.

5.2 Borrower Performance


(A) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

105.    The Government's commitment to postal sector reform was strong, particularly
considering that it covered two administrations with different political visions. During project
preparation, the Government completed important actions, such as the voluntary separation
program, which set the stage for a successful transformation of TTPost and the sector. Although
the elections and change of government to some extent disrupted project implementation, the
Government soon resumed its commitment to reform. The Ministry of Public Utilities (and the
Minister herself) played a key role in successful finalization of the DMA, transition to local
management, and design of Postal Sector Policy.


                                                   24

106.    At the same time, however, certain Government action and inactions undermined the
above achievements:

    · The restructuring of the ministries and the shuffling of the project PIU from one to the
        other and then back again delayed the project and demoralized project staff. A
        significant portion of the project delay can be attributed to these actions.

    · Lack of action to authorize TTPost tariff increases since 2000, despite inflation averaging
        7 percent, hindered TTPost from reaching financial viability.

    · Delays to vest Government postal properties to TTPost (as agreed in the DMA) denied
        TTPost additional revenues from commercial exploitation of these properties.

    · Under the DMA, government was responsible for funding TTPost operating losses. In
        many instances, however, delays in complying with this responsibility contributed to
        TTPost cash flow problems and resultant operational difficulties.

    · Delay in the formal approval of postal sector policy and the LTA.

    · Pay increases for postal staff in excess of what had been envisioned.

107.    Despite its support for reform and the positive actions it took, government performance is
rated as moderately unsatisfactory, with the negative actions outweighing the positive on
balance. In reaching this conclusion, it should be kept in mind that financial viability was a
critical aspect of the project, and much of the reason for TTPost's lack of profitability could be
addressed through Government timely actions. It should be noted, however, that postal sector
reform is a long-term process; this ICR only provides a snapshot in this process. Its ultimate
success or failure will depend on continued Government commitment and conclusion of the
agreed actions, as pointed out in the section 4 above.


(B) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Implementing Agency: Ministry of Public Utilities and Environment

108.    The PIU under the Ministry of Public Utilities and Environment struggled to implement
the project under adverse circumstances. The project suffered from frequent changes in
leadership--four project directors since 2003. For at least half of the project period, financial
management was inefficient and inadequate, and the total complement of staff was also
insufficient. Several project audits were late (though none were qualified), and the Bank
mounted special missions to deal with this deficiency. During the period from mid 2001 to mid
2004, the PIU struggled with being moved from one agency to another and then back again,
having most of its staff replaced, and having very limited telephone and email access, which
made communication with the Bank difficult.

109.    As noted in Section 2.4, for much of the implementation period, the project did not have
a qualified accountant. With no qualified accountant, the PIU was unable to deliver PMRs, and
so the Bank could not disburse funds to the Special Account. An improvised procedure was
developed, but this situation should not have developed in the first place.




                                                 25

110.    These difficulties are reflected in the disbursement data: in the fourth quarter of 2001,
disbursement amounted to 34 percent of the original projection, while in the second quarter of
2004, it had risen to only 39 percent. (Disbursements subsequently began to grow rapidly and by
the end of the project all funds have been disbursed).

111.    It should be noted that PIU's performance was strong at the beginning of the project and
then again improved significantly during the last two years of the project, but the overall
performance is still rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

112.    It should be also noted that although the Ministry was the formal Implementing Agency,
a great deal of day-to-day work on behalf of the project was done by TTPost; for example,
TTPost carried out most procurement. TTPost's performance in this regard was very good.


(C) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

113.    Considering the performance of both Government and the Implementing Agency, and the
benefits the project was able to achieve, on balance an overall rating for Borrower Performance
of Moderately Unsatisfactory is indicated.

114.    It should be noted that the Government has completed its own assessment, resulting in
satisfactory rating of both the Borrower and Implementing Agency Performance (see section 7.
Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners).

6. Lessons Learned

(A)     Lessons for postal reform


115.    Privatization may be an unrealistic objective of postal service reform: At the project
concept stage in the late 1990's it appeared that the postal world was moving toward a model of
national operators being privatized. In hindsight such an objective was overly-ambitious and
impractical in the postal industry. Instead, corporatization with increased commercial freedom
has become the norm, while maintaining Government ownership.

116.    Independent regulatory capacity is critical: Of concern for the future of TTPost is
regulation of the sector and of tariffs. The Ministry still has substantial control over TTPost and
decides the timing and size of rate increases. More focus should have been placed on
independent regulation and annual rate reviews to ensure that rate increases were reasonable,
related to service standards, and immune to political interference. This is currently being revised
under the LTA, but delays in adjusting tariffs in the past mean that it may be difficult to
implement a large one-time increase to rebalance tariffs.

117.    Service standards should be defined in a demand-driven manner: The desire by
Government to have world-class standards should be realistic and cost effective. The extension
of delivery to 97 percent of the population is a substantial achievement, but providing nationwide
daily delivery to every address point is a burden for TTPost. It is important that service targets
reflect customer needs and reasonable financial constraints. The lesson is to distinguish between
universal service definition and quality of service standards. In the case of Trinidad and Tobago,



                                                  26

universal service is provision of home delivery to every address at a given frequency. An
alternative would be to set universal service at a minimum frequency (weekly or twice weekly)
and define quality of service levels of, for example, 60 percent next day, 80 percent within two
days and 98 percent within a week. This requires that a basic universal service is met and
everyone receives home delivery but gives the operator flexibility to meet differing client
expectations; the operator would focus on providing daily delivery to those with the highest
volumes and less frequent service level to those with low volumes.

118.     Postal sector transformation is a long-term process, and unlikely to be completed
within the life of one project: The United States Postal Service remains an administration
within Government, Royal Mail took over 30 years to move from a Government corporation to a
public limited company fully owned by Government, Deutsche Post has taken over ten years to
move from Government to semi-privatized status and still enjoys substantial market protection
and Government influence. Sweden and New Zealand, however, changed the status of their
postal services in a much shorter time as a result of strong government commitment. Each of
those businesses can be regarded as world class postal businesses yet represent completely
different models of ownership. In this regard TTPost can be considered favorably among best
world practice. However, it lacks independent regulation and tariff setting and needs rebalancing
of its service targets. The Government has responsibility to resolve such issues and it would be
in the interest of the Bank to ensure a continued dialogue to ensure their resolution.21

(B)      Lessons for sectoral reform

119.     Broad-based commitment of key stakeholders is a necessary precondition to
successful reform. During project preparation, substantial efforts were made to ensure broad-
based support of key stakeholders (workshops, consultations, expert meetings, communication
strategy etc.). This process paved the way for implementation of reform, including difficult
actions such as staffing reduction and award of the management contract in the early years of the
project. Subsequently, however, the project design underestimated the effect of the change of
the Government. Commitment to the postal sector weakened in the early years of the new
Government. The lesson is that broad-based political commitment is essential for the reform
success and that consensus-building activities should be an integral part of the project
implementation, as external conditions and stakeholders change. It is essential that the reform
planning considers sufficient time and resources for these consensus building activities. It may
mean achieving less but making those achievements permanent. Experience from other countries
show that even successful reforms can fail over time if they are not understood and accepted by
the population and key stakeholders.22

120.     Pioneering transactions should be more modest in setting key indicators, allow for
their adjustments in the course of implementation, and concentrate more on lessons learnt.
With the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that the project was a pioneering exercise. Trinidad and
Tobago is now one of the few leaders in the postal sector reform among the low and middle

21 For recent postal reform literature, see for example Guislain, Pierre; The Postal Sector in Developing and Transition
Countries: Contributions to a Reform Agenda; World Bank Working Paper, 2005; Oxera: "Universal Service Obligations in the
Postal Sector," January 2007; Universal Postal Union: Guide to Postal Reform and Development, 2005 ­ www.upu.int, Kenny,
Charles: "Reforming the Posts; Abandoning the Monopoly-supported Postal Universal Service Obligation in Developing
Countries; AEI ­ Brookings Joint Center for Regulatory Studies, 2005.
22See for example World Bank, IEG: Bolivia ­ Capitalization program Adjustment Credit; Project Performance Assessment
Report, 2006.




                                                               27

income countries. The project, however, set overly ambitious and in some cases unrealistic or
conflicting objectives and targets. The focus on those targets at times diverted attention from
more strategic issues ­ postal sector policy, LTA, liberalization etc.

(C)    Lessons for management contracts.

121.   Lessons from world-wide experience and World Bank studies indicate that successful
Management Contracts have the following characteristics: (1) Robust, meaningful and relevant
performance indicators; (2) Emphasis on incentive fees and financial performance indicators;
and (3) Operational autonomy by the operator. The DMA had all these characteristics, but a
detailed analysis shows that the incentive structure could have been improved.

   1) Robust, Meaningful, and Relevant Performance Indicators. The indicators under the
       DMA in Trinidad and Tobago were objective, quantified and measurable. The selected
       performance indicators reflected the stated objectives of the Government to expand and
       improve the quality and quantity of postal services together with strengthened financial
       performance by the postal corporation. The indicator related to Net Income, however,
       reflected the overly-optimistic market assumptions, underestimation of universal service
       costs, as well as perhaps optimistic expectations for Government's timely approval of
       tariff increases. The combination of these factors made the target virtually unachievable,
       and might have created some unintended incentives for the contractor - it was
       economically rationale for the contractor to concentrate on the achievement of the
       remaining targets (even if their achievement was at high expense of TTPost's overall
       financial situation).

   2) Emphasis on Incentive Fees and Financial Performance Indicators. The objective of
       success fees is to share the operating and financial risk between the government and the
       operator. According to management contract studies, the best results have been achieved
       when the operator has a modest fixed fee to cover part of its expenses, and is expected to
       collect the majority of its remuneration in the form of a success fee that is based on a
       sliding scale ­ increasing its share of profits with improved performance. There was no
       sliding scale in DMA. There was just a penalty for non-achievement and bonus for over-
       achievement of the targets. The design of the DMA could have been improved by a
       sliding scale for fees, in particular for the financial indicators.

   3) More gains towards achieving the objective of financial sustainability could have been
       made with a greater weighting given to the financial indicators accompanied with an
       explicit reference to the cost of the Universal Service Obligation and assumptions related
       to the future tariff levels. An attempt to measure the cost of the Universal Service
       Obligation would have made the trade off's between the increased service levels and
       improved financial performance more explicit. This would have made it clearer whether
       and what subsidy payment would have been required to reach a level of service desired.
       A greater emphasis on financial indicators could have resulted in more substantial
       productivity gains and cost savings.

   4) Tariffs. As the tariff levels are a key determinant of the revenues to postal corporations, a
       clear formula in the DMA (for example linked to the general price index) that would have
       stipulated the minimum tariff increases could have made the achievement of the Net
       Income target more attainable.



                                                  28

    5) Full Operational Autonomy. Full executive control ­ especially over personnel ­ is a
          critical element for substantial and sustainable performance improvement. Under the
          DMA, however, streamlining of the work force was limited only to the beginning of the
          contract period, partly due to lack of a counterpart to negotiate with as a result of two
          unions competing for the formal status.23


122.      Additional detail on lessons for Management Contracts is provided in Annex 10.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners


    (a) Borrower/implementing agencies




23For management contract best practices, see for example The Audit Commission, UK Management Paper: "On Target ­ the
Practice of Performance Indicators", 2000; Shaikh, Minovi: "Management Contracts: A Review of International Experience",
CFS Discussion Paper Series No. 108, World Bank 1995.




                                                            29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            41

                               Annex 1 - Project Costs and Financing




        (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                               Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                  Components                 Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD       Percentage of

                                               millions)          millions)          Appraisal

   Voluntary Separation Assistance To
   Support The Reduction In The Work                  2.700                 2.185          80.93%
   Force
   Private Sector Participation Support               6.750                 5.437          80.55%
   Rehabilitating Facilities And
   Modernizing Equipment                             10.400               16.962          163.10%

   Strengthening Institutional Support                1.190                 1.376         115.63%
                       Total Baseline Cost           21.040               25.960          123.38%
   Contingencies                                      2.000                  0.00


                        Total Project Costs        23.040                 25.960          112.67%
   Front-end fee PPF                                  0.913                 0.910          99.67%
   Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.148                 0.140          94.59%
                Total Financing Required           24.1015                25.960          107.71%



        (b) Financing



         Source of Funds           Type of    Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage
                                  Financing     (USD millions)      (USD millions)     of Appraisal

    Borrower                        Direct and
                                 private loan              8.23                   17.28     129.28

    International Bank For
    Reconstruction And                 Loan               11.50                   11.50        100
    Development

Appraisal Estimate includes US$3.4 million for a new mail center. The loan was reduced by this
amount, after the Government sought alternative financing.
The counterpart Actual Amount includes US$ 4.467 million for the cost of land and building for
the new mail centre, financed by a private loan.




                                                 42

                               Annex 2 - Outputs by Component


Component 1: Voluntary Separation Assistance.

Early in the Project period the Government used counterpart funds to implement the Voluntary
Separation programs (VSEP). The TTPost Act No. 1 of 1999 provided General Post Office
employees three options: (i) transfer to the newly formed corporation on terms and conditions
similar to those in the Public Services; (ii) retire voluntarily; or (iii) remain with the Public
Service. By July 1, 1999, 1,850 employees had transferred to TTPost; and 800 retired
voluntarily. In early 2001, TTPost offered a Voluntary Separation Package, which further
reduced the labor force from 1,498 to 1,100 employees. As of the end of 2006, there were 1,186
employees, 931 of whom were permanent staff and 255 were temporary relief workers.

Component 2: Private-sector participation.

The Project addressed the goal of increasing private sector participation, first, through its
incentive-based management contract with Transend under the DMA, second by the LTA, and
third, through the use of franchises. The first phase was implemented satisfactorily, and the
second phase (LTA) is in process due to delays in formal adoption of Postal Sector Policy.
Overall, private sector participation was increased through partial sector liberalization, increased
commercial orientation of TTPost, and franchising of outlets.

Component 3: Rehabilitation and modernization of postal facilities and equipment.

This component included refurbishing postal facilities, upgrade of postal infrastructure,
investment in information technology, and modernizing the transport fleet. The Project used US$
1.54 million of Loan funds and US$0.19 million of counterpart funds to refurbish 23 postal
offices. The Project also used US$1.39 million of Loan funds and US$0.85 million of
counterpart funds to upgrade and automate the information, tracking, communication and other
systems. The Project further used US$1.33 million of Loan funds and US$0.13 million of
counterpart funds for motor vehicles, motor cycles, bicycles and scooters. Finally the project
used US$0.18 million of Loan funds and US$0.48 million of counterpart funds to purchase and
install cluster boxes. Together with improved management practices, these upgraded postal
facilities and equipment provided a basis for improved operational efficiency and improved
service quality.

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening.

This component focused on institutional strengthening under the DMA. TTPost, as managed by
Transend, evolved into an effective manager of postal services. During the extension, Transend
passed its management responsibilities on to a team of locally hired managers, in preparation for
the LTA. As a result, by the end of the Project, TTPost had an effective management,
procurement and financial management team. On the other hand, although the PIU at the
Ministry of Public Utilities and Environment was strengthened in the past few years, the
Ministry still lacks expert staff to manage the complex transition to the LTA.




                                                   43

                          Annex 3 - Economic and Financial Analysis


Summary of Findings

The TT Post system did not have a positive cost-benefit outcome, using discounted net income
(loss) figures from 1999 to 2006 based on available financial information (including audited
financial statements). The four factors that had the greatest effect on the cost-benefit picture
include: (i) the lack of tariff increases during the past six years (despite average inflation of 7
percent), (ii) no transfer of commercially attractive land or infrastructure, despite explicit
provision for this in the DMA, which could have provided significant non-operational income;
(iii) the high operational costs implicit in covering sparsely populated rural areas under the
universal service obligation; and (iv) higher than expected wages granted by government to civil
servants. In addition, new retail products developed more slowly than anticipated, and some
have not yet become profitable.

Several sensitivity analysis scenarios were reviewed, including, (i) a discount rate of 16 percent,
in accordance with the practices used in the Project Appraisal Document, and (ii) an estimated
increase in tariffs from 1998 to 2006 of 7 percent per year, roughly the average inflation rate
during that period. None of these scenarios offered a significantly different result in terms of net
present value.




                                                  44

       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

       (a) Task Team members



Names                Title                     Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Anil Kapur            Economist                            Task Manager
Gary Reid             Lead Public Sector       ECSPE       Task Manager
                      Management Specialist
Peter Kyle            Lawyer                   ECSPE       Legal
Jose Carvalho         Lawyer                   LEGPS       Legal
David Varela          Lawyer                   LEGLA       Legal
Alberto Ninio         Lawyer                   LEGLA       Legal
Graham Scott          Consultant               LCSTR       Public Sector Reform
Paul Meo              Consultant                           Privatization
Hanna Koilpillai      Senior Finance Officer   LOAG1       Disbursements
Daniel Boyce          Senior Country           LCC1C       Financial Management
                      Operations Officer
Sonia Plaza           Economist                AFCRI       Economic Analysis
Sheoli Pargal         Economist                            Economic Analysis
Kumar Ranganathan     Postal Sector Specialist             Postal Sector Reform
Norma Rodriguez       Procurement Analyst      LCSPT       Procurement
Efraim Jimenez        Procurement Analyst      LSCPT       Procurement

Supervision/ICR
Dana Rysankova        Senior Economist         AFTEG       Task Team Leader
Jyoti Shukla          Senior Economist         PPIAF       Task Team Leader
Clemencia Torres de   Senior Economist         PPIAF       Task Team Leader
Mastle
Juan B. Ianni         Postal Policy Specialist CITPO       Postal Sector Reform
Graeme Paul Lee       Postal Policy Specialist LCSEG       Postal Sector Reform
Judith C. Morroy      Procurement Analyst      LCSPT       Procurement
Marta G. Ospina       Procurement Analyst      LCSPT       Procurement
Norma Rodriguez       Procurement Analyst      LCSPT       Procurement
Emmanuel Njomo        Senior Finance Officer   LOAG1       Disbursement
Edward Daoud          Senior Finance Officer   LOAG1       Disbursement
Fabienne Morczka      Financial Management     LOAG1       Disbursement
                      Analyst
Michael J. Goldberg   Senior Private Sector    LCSPF       Financial Analysis
                      Development Specialist
Eric Palladini        Consultant               LCSPF       Support/ICR




                                              45

   (b) Staff Time and Cost

                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands
                                           No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                  consultant costs)

Lending
FY95                                                          0.13
FY96                                                          40.71
FY97                                                          66.04
FY98                                                          53.25
FY99                                                          110.59
FY00                                    2-                    -3.56
FY01                                                          0.00
FY02                                                          0.00
FY03                                                          0.00
FY04                                                          0.00
FY05                                                          0.00
FY06                                                          0.00
FY07                                                          0.00

Total:                                  2-                    267.16

Supervision/ICR

FY95                                                          0.00
FY96                                                          0.00
FY97                                                          0.00
FY98                                                          0.76
FY99                                                          14.34
FY00                                    20                    62.06
FY01                                    11                    37.94
FY02                                    9                     28.24
FY03                                    23                    83.82
FY04                                    17                    108.11
FY05                                    16                    64.75
FY06                                    21                    93.01
FY07                                    4                     26.03

Total:                                  121                   519.06




                                       46

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
N/A


Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
N/A


Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
N/A


Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                      47

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Project Appraisal Document, February 1999

The Audit Commission, UK Management Paper: "On Target ­ the Practice of Performance
       Indicators", 2000.

Committee on Development Effectiveness: Perspectives on Technical Assistance Loans, World
       Bank, 2006

Estache, Antonio. Infrastructure: A survey of recent and upcoming issues. World Bank
       Infrastructure Vice-Presidency and Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Vice-
       Presidency. April 2006

Guislain, Pierre; The Postal Sector in Developing and Transition Countries: Contributions to a
       Reform Agenda; World Bank Working Paper, 2005

Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago: Vision 20/20

Ianni, Lohmeyer: The Postal Industry in an Internet Age, Case Studies in Postal Reform, World
       Bank & UPU, June 2002.

Kenny, Charles: "Reforming the Posts; Abandoning the Monopoly-supported Postal Universal
       Service Obligation in Developing Countries; AEI ­ Brookings Joint Center for
       Regulatory Studies, 2005

Ministry of Public Utilities and the Environment. Postal Services Reform Project Brief re: The
       Mid-Term Review of the World Bank. August 13-16 2002. 2002.

Ministry of Public Utilities and the Environment. Postal Services Reform Project Brief for the
       ICR Mission, September 2006

Ministry of Public Utilities and the Environment; Draft Postal Sector Policy

Ministry of Public Utilities and the Environment; Draft Long Term Arrangement

NethPost Consultancy. Inception Report. 2003

NethPost Consultancy. Report 1: Evaluation of the Status of TTPost under the DMA. 2003

NethPost Consultancy. Report 2. 2003

NethPost Consultancy. Report 3: Definition of Long Term Goals. 2003

NethPost Consultancy. Report 4: Analysis of Current Regulations and Suggested Revisions.
       2003

Oxera: "Universal Service Obligations in the Postal Sector," January 2007;

Postal Policy Consulting Services. "Report on Performance Targets, Year 1." 2000

Postal Policy Consulting Services. "Report on Performance Targets, Year 2." 2001

Postal Policy Consulting Services. "Report on Performance Targets, Year 3." 2002

Postal Policy Consulting Services. "Report on Performance Targets, Year 4." 2003

Postal Policy Consulting Services. "Report on Performance Targets, Year 5." 2004



                                               48

Shaikh, Minovi: "Management Contracts: A Review of International Experience", CFS
       Discussion Paper Series No. 108, World Bank 1995.

Trends Limited. "1st Quarterly Transit Times Survey: July - September 2000." 2000

Trends Limited. "Quarterly Transit Times Survey: various dates.

Trujillo, Perelman, Estache; Infrastructure Performance and Reform in Developing and
       Transition Economies: Evidence from a survey of productivity measures; World Bank
       Policy Research Working Paper; 2005.

TTPost draft Strategic Plan 2006-2010

TTPost draft Business Plan 2006-2010

TTPost annual financial statements 1999-2006

TTPost Board and Management Reports 1999-2006

Union Network International, UNI-Americas Postal Committee: Privatizing the Post: The World
       Bank's role in Americas, 2000

Universal Postal Union: Guide to Postal Reform and Development, 2005 ­ www.upu.int.

Walsh, Tim. Delivering Economic Development: Postal Infrastructures and Sectoral Reform in
       Developing Countries. Consignia plc. London. 2001

World Bank, IEG: Bolivia ­ Capitalization program Adjustment Credit; Project Performance
       Assessment Report, 2006

World Bank: Aide memoires, Supervision reports, Back to Office Reports

World Bank: ICR Cost benefit analysis and sensitivity analysis




                                                49

                                     Annex 10 - Additional Information

Lessons for management contracts--additional detail

Choice of Instrument. International experience indicates that the choice of modality for private
sector participation in the postal sector in Trinidad and Tobago was appropriate: a Management
Contract is a valid instrument for PE reform when appropriately designed, and can be viewed as
an interim measure toward privatization.24

Overall Design of the DMA. Overall, the design of the DMA follows the guidelines for best
practice:
    1) Bidding Process. The DMA was awarded based on a competitive bidding process that
         consisted of a pre-qualification phase and a subsequent step where the pre-qualified
         bidders provided the Government with a technical and financial bid. The contract was
         awarded to New Zealand Post--a reputable operator with relevant international
         experience--that had the highest overall points based on the sum of the points from the
         technical and financial bid;
    2) Coverage and design of the DMA contract. The DMA was a well-crafted contract,
         legally binding, and stipulated the goals that aligned with the sectoral development
         priorities of The Government. The main responsibilities of the operator and The
         Government were clearly spelled out and defined, and according to the DMA
         performance evaluation and measurement towards targets were to be undertaken yearly
         by an independent third party.

Review of Key Components. Lessons learned from world-wide experience and World Bank
studies indicate that successful Management Contracts have the following characteristics: (1)
Robust, meaningful and relevant performance indicators; (2) Emphasis on incentive fees and
financial performance indicators; and (3) Operational autonomy by the operator.

    1) Robust, Meaningful, and Relevant Performance Indicators. In order to reach positive
         outcomes according to international best practice the indicators in a management or
         performance contract should be robust, meaningful and relevant.25The indicators under
         the DMA in Trinidad and Tobago were objective, quantified and measurable.26 The
         selected performance indicators reflected the stated objectives of the Government to
         expand and improve the quality and quantity of postal services together with strengthened
         financial performance by the postal corporation. The indicator related to Net Income
         reflected the overly-optimistic market assumptions, underestimation of costs of providing
         universal service and perhaps the optimistic expectations for government to approve tariff
         increases on time, as well as an unexpected change in the external environment. The
         combination of these factors made the target virtually unachievable, and might have

24See Shaikh, Minovi: "Management Contracts: A Review of International Experience", CFS Discussion Paper Series No. 108,
World Bank 1995.
25The Audit Commission, UK Management Paper: "On Target ­ the Practice of Performance Indicators", 2000.
26Selected indicators with ex anted specified target levels for each year: Improve level of satisfaction with postal services;
Expand reach of Universal Service; Improve transit time of mail from posting to delivery; Achieve growth in postal revenue; and
Achieve improved Net Income level




                                                                50

          created some unintended incentives for the contractor - it was economically rationale for
          the contractor to concentrate on the achievement of the remaining targets (even if their
          achievement was at high expense of TTPost's overall financial situation).


     2) Emphasis on Incentive Fees and Financial Performance Indicators. The objective of
          success fees is to share the operating and financial risk between the government and the
          operator. According to studies the best results have been achieved when the operator has
          a modest fixed fee to cover part of its expenses, and is expected to collect the majority of
          its remuneration in the form of a success fee that is based on a sliding scale ­ increasing
          its share of profits with improved performance. There was no sliding scale in DMA.
          There was just a penalty for non-achievement and bonus for over-achievement of the
          targets.

     3) The design of the DMA could have been improved by a sliding scale for fees, in
          particular for the financial indicators. Also, more gains towards achieving the objective
          of financial sustainability could have been made with a greater weighting given to the
          financial indicators accompanied with an explicit reference to the cost of the Universal
          Service Obligation and assumptions related to the future tariff levels. An attempt to
          measure the cost of the Universal Service Obligation27 would have made the trade off's
          between the increased service levels and improved financial performance more explicit.
          This would have made it clearer whether and what subsidy payment would have been
          required to reach a level of service desired. Also, a greater emphasis on financial
          indicators could have resulted in more substantial productivity gains and cost savings.

     4) Tariffs. As the tariff levels are a key determinant of the revenues to postal corporations, a
          formula (for example linked to the general price index) that would have stipulated the
          minimum tariff increases could have made the achievement of the Net Income target
          more attainable.

     5) Full Operational Autonomy. For substantial and sustainable performance improvement
          full executive control ­ especially over personnel ­ is a critical element. Failed technical
          assistance and management contacts have typically constrained the operator's ability to
          improve productivity or reduce costs due to limited authority on decisions related to
          hiring, firing, and compensation. Under the DMA streamlining of the work force was
          limited to the beginning of the contract period, partly due to lack of a counterpart to
          negotiate with as a result of two unions competing of the formal status. The above
          inflation wage increases imposed on the operator by the Government also contributed to
          the losses of the corporation




27Oxera: "Funding Universal Service Obligations in the Postal Sector" prepared for La Poste, De Poste-La Poste, Hellenic
Post, Post Italiane, P&T Luxembourg; Correos, Magyar Posta, Cyprus Post, Poczta Polska" January 2007.




                                                            51

                   Annex 11 - Summary of "2020 Vision for the Postal Sector"

While the USO model is valid, adopting it as the operational mode in Trinidad and Tobago is unlikely to
deliver the outcomes desired by Government or the users of postal services. It is a restrictive model that
does not contemplate the advancement of the market as a whole, and would rely on subsidies to ensure its
ability to meet the Government's USO commitments.

Full or partial privatization of postal services at this particular juncture of the Sector's development would
be unlikely to attract the level of interest necessary to successfully complete the strategy. TTPost, as the
current National Operator, is running at a loss and has not completed its transition to a commercially
driven enterprise. This would be unattractive to potential investors without significant Government
guarantees and ongoing subsidies to ensure delivery of the USO to users.

The most commercially viable model to adopt at this stage is the Developing Market Model that continues
with the improvements made under phase one, leverages off the significant investment in infrastructure
already made, provides a sound platform to move to the next level of delivery, and in so doing maintains
GoRTT's options for developing the Sector in the future.

To ensure a transparent and vibrant Postal Sector, responsibilities in the Sector, based on the model
chosen, will be clearly defined between the shareholders as follows:

 The Government               · As the authority responsible for the national interest in setting the Sector
                                   framework and the social and economic obligations
                              · As the entity responsible for the provision of the Universal Service
                                   Obligation
                              · As the National Operator's shareholder

 The Regulator                · As guardian of the consumers' interests, both social and business
                              · As the body which has a pivotal role in developing the immature postal
                                   market

 National Operator            · As the operator responsible for the delivery of the universal service
                                   obligation
                              · As a commercial organization responsible to the shareholder for
                                   commercial and financial performance

 The responsibilities are summarized as follows:

 The Government, in      ·    Set the overall policy     ·    Appoint the Regulator   ·    Retain prime
 setting   the  social   for the Postal Sector           and establish the principles responsibility for the
 and        economic                                     of the regulatory regime,    representation of the
 obligations, will:      ·    Ensure that the Postal     but will not become          Republic of Trinidad and
                         Sector Policy is in harmony     involved with other matters  Tobago as a member of the
                         with the policies of related    which fall to the Regulator  Universal Postal Union and
                         Sectors                                                      delegate responsibilities to
                         ·    Determine the social,                                   others as deemed necessary
                         economic and                    ·    Issue guidance to the   ·    Retain prime
                         environmental obligations       Regulator on those social,   responsibility for the
                         to be placed on the             economic and                 representation of the
                         universal service provider      environmental objectives     Republic of Trinidad and



                                                        52

                 ·    Set the Universal        ·    Determine the          Tobago on postal matters
                 Service Obligation            minimum criteria for access within World Trade
                                                                           Organization (WTO)
                 ·                             to postal services
                      Issue guidance to the                                discussions
                 Regulator on those social,
                 economic and
                 environmental objectives

The    Regulator ·    Regulate the Postal      ·    Monitor performance    ·    Prepare market reports
will:            Sector within the             standards of the Sector     as requested by
                 framework laid down by        entities against the        Government
                 the Government, including     established service
                 the requirement to fulfill    standards and performance
                 the social and economic       targets for products and
                 objectives of the             services within the
                 Government                    regulated areas.

                 ·    Have as a primary        ·    Ensure fair
                 duty to protect the interests competition and ensure that
                 of all consumers              there is no cross-

                 ·                             subsidization from the
                      Set standards of         reserved to the competitive
                 service within the context    area
                 of the social and economic
                 obligations and practicality  ·    Monitor the Postal

                 ·                             Sector and make
                      Regulate prices for the  recommendations to
                 products and services         Government on changes to
                 within the regulated area     Sector Policy
                 ·    Monitor compliance       ·    Authorize the granting
                 with the USO                  of Licenses and
                 ·    Enforce any reserved     Authorizations to current
                 areas                         and future operators in the
                                               Postal Sector according to
                                               agreed transparent
                                               procedures and criteria

                                               ·    Based on its
                                               experiences, make
                                               recommendations to the
                                               Government on cross-sector
                                               issues

The National     ·    Deliver high quality     ·    Set the prices of its  ·    Manage the post office
Operator will:   products and services         services within the         network against the
                 which fully satisfy the       requirements set by the     guidance provided by the
                 demands of its customers      Regulator                   Government

                 Ensure that its services and
                 operation meets the social
                 and economic obligations
                 placed on it as the universal
                 service provider




                                               53

                   Annex 12 - TTPost Mail Volumes 2000-2006 (items per year)

Baseline: 1996: about 30 million items per year

       Category           Year 1    Year 2    Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Year 6    Year 7

                           99/00    00/01      01/02   02/03    03/04      04/05    05/06
Local                        (000)     (000)     (000)   (000)    (000)  (000)     (000)
Bulk mail                   23803     25854     26389  27191.8   27728    29675.2   32058.4
Other local Letters          7600      7287      7240   7381.3     9330    8231.3    8237.6
Freepost/ Business Reply       13         4         4      3.4       19       11.0      60.0
Parcels                        0.5        2         4      4.4        5        8.3       2.1
Registration                  190       181       193    183.6      180       171     200.0
Courier                        35       114       139    151.4      178     178.8     227.2
Direct Marketing Mail            0        0       431   1207.6     1323     133.1    2125.6
Unaddressed Mail             1235      3791      3885   4607.4     7305    5886.6    7878.4
Sub Total                  32876.5    37233     38285  40730.7   46068    45,497.3  50789.4

Outbound
International
EMS                            14        20        34     42.4       43       39.5      19.1
TnT Outbound                    0         0         0      0.8        4        4.9       3.4
Bulk Letters                  986      4725       494    365.3      370       417    1007.6
Other Letters                1879      4095      2738   3390.7     4332      3627    2452.9
Parcels                          2        4         2      2.9        4        3.2       1.9
Registration                  120       102       100    105.7       99        92       82.6
Sub Total                    3001      4893      3368   3907.9     4851    4183.6    3567.5

Inbound
International
EMS                            29        25        34     43.7       43       40.5      21.5
TnT Inbound                     0         0         0        0        9        9.7      10.9
Letters                      5210      4725      5653   6456.7     5028    4837.1    4025.9
Consolidate Mail                0         0         0        0        0       72.5    178.2
Parcels                        43        50        45     51.9       77       48.9      40.5
Registration                   83        76        83     72.9       69       60.8      57.3
Sub Total                    5365      4876      5815   6626.9     5226    5069.5    4334.3


      Grand Total         41242.5   47002      47468   51265.4 56145.02   54750.5  58691.2




                                              54

