Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4458-TR
Loan Agreement
(Postal Services Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 14, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4458-TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD 
AND TOBAGO (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Trinidad and Tobago Postal Corporation Act 1999 
(the Act): (a) established the Trinidad and Tobago Postal Corporation 
(TTP), a body corporate in charge of providing postal services in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act, and (b) introduced provisions 
that will enable the restructuring and reorganization of the Borrower’s 
postal sector and will encourage private sector participation in such 
sector;
(B)
the Bank has received a letter (the Policy Letter) dated 
February 2, 1999 from the Borrower describing the Borrower’s postal 
sector reform program, the policies to be adopted in the carrying out of 
such program, and indicating the Borrower’s commitment to the carrying 
out of such program, including particulars with respect to the role and 
composition of TTP’s Board;
(C)
the Borrower and TTP have, on February 25, 1999, entered 
into a delegated management arrangement (the DMA) with New Zealand Post 
International Limited (the Management Operator) (which was selected in 
Page  2
accordance with international bidding procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank), for the management and operation of TTP by the Management Operator 
during a period of five years in accordance with the provisions of the 
DMA; 
(D)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
(E)
the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend to the Borrower the loan provided for in Article II 
of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means each annual period commencing on March 1 
and ending on February 28 or 29, as the case may be;
(d)
“Performance and Project Objectives” means the benchmarks 
and activities set forth in Clauses 3.1.6 and 3.1.8 of the DMA;
(e)
“PIU” means the unit in the Borrower’s Ministry of Public 
Utilities referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.03 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreement signed on behalf of the Bank on July 10, 1998 and on behalf of 
the Borrower on October 29, 1998; and
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to fourteen million eight hundred fifty thousand Dollars 
($14,850,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid 
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the 
amount of one hundred forty-eight thousand five hundred Dollars 
($148,500). On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including 
an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next 
following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
Page  4
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate postal services, technical, 
administrative, financial and environmental practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out Parts B.1 and C of the Project 
with the assistance of TTP, and in accordance with the DMA.
(c)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause TTP to, comply with 
their respective obligations and exercise their respective rights under 
the DMA in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, and shall cause TTP to, 
not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the DMA or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain, in its Ministry of 
Public Utilities, a unit responsible for Project coordination and 
management (the PIU), such unit to have a structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, and to have staff, with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank, in adequate numbers as shall be 
necessary for the PIU to carry out its responsibilities.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance, inter 
alia, with the Performance and Project Objectives, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and (ii) 
furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31 and September 30 of each 
year during Project implementation, commencing on September 30, 1999, a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may request, on the 
progress of the Project (measured, inter alia, against the Performance 
and Project Objectives) during the six-month period preceding the date of 
such report.
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about the 32nd month after the date of 
this Agreement, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, during the 33rd month after the date 
of this Agreement, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on 
the matter.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than the 40th month 
after the date of this Agreement:
(a)
furnish to the Bank a proposal for the operation of TTP 
after the termination of the DMA; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on such proposal.
Section 3.06. (a) Within nine months after the date of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a proposal for the 
future role of the Borrower’s Post Office Savings Bank, especially with 
respect to achieving the Borrower’s objectives of expanding financial 
services to the public, such proposal to be based on the study to be 
carried out by the Management Operator pursuant to Clauses 3.1.8 (v) and 
3.1.9 of the DMA; and
(b)
if such proposal shall recommend that the Borrower's Post 
Office Savings Bank should be incorporated into TTP's business, the 
Borrower shall, in agreement with the Management Operator, revise, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank, the Performance and Project Objectives, 
before effecting such incorporation; or
(c)
if such proposal shall recommend otherwise, the Borrower 
Page  6
shall implement such recommendation within the timetable therein set 
forth, after taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the 
objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain in the PIU a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  7
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause TTP to maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts B.1 and C of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause TTP to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish, through the PIU, to the Bank as soon as 
available, but in any case 
not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements 
and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish, through the PIU, to the Bank such other 
information concerning such 
records, accounts and 
financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 
45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project management 
report for such period, which:
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
in the case of the Project Management Reports for the 
calendar quarters ending on March 31 and September 30, (i) describes 
physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and during 
the six-month period covered by the reports referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) (ii) of this Agreement, and (ii) explains variances between the 
Page  8
actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower has failed to comply with its commitments set 
forth in the Policy Letter in a manner that, in the opinion of the Bank, 
may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or 
the achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
The Management Operator has failed to perform its 
obligations under the DMA in a manner that, in the opinion of the Bank, 
may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
(c)
The Act has been amended or has not been enforced in a 
manner that, in the opinion of the Bank, may materially and adversely 
affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the 
objectives thereof.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
(b)
The event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement, namely, that the 
Borrower has strengthened, to the satisfaction of the Bank, the financial 
management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement in a 
manner that shall enable the Borrower to prepare Project Management 
Reports, as required under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date September 15,1999 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
Page  9
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Eric Williams Plaza
Port-of-Spain
Trinidad and Tobago
With copies to:
Ministry of Planning and Development
Eric Williams Plaza
Port-of-Spain
Trinidad and Tobago
Ministry of Public of Utilities
Sacred Heart Building
16-18 Sackville Street
Port-of-Spain
Trinidad and Tobago
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Port of Spain, Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, 
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
By /s/ Brian Kuei Tung
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
 3,900,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 87% of local 
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(2)
Works
 4,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
87% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Management Operator
 2,500,000
100%, for 
       Fee
expenditures
incurred up to
February 24, 
2000; thereafter,
70%, for
expenditures
incurred up to
February 24, 
2001; thereafter, 
30% for 
expenditures
incurred up to 
February 24, 2002
(4)
Consultants' services   900,000
100%
(5)
Refunding of Project
 1,400,000
Amounts due 
Preparation Advance
pursuant to
Section 2.02 (b) 
of this
Agreement
(6)
Fee
   148,500
Amount due 
under Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
        1,501,500
__________
TOTAL
14,850,000
==========
Page  11
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower;
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and
(c)
“Management Operator Fee” means the fee to be paid by the 
Borrower to the Management Operator pursuant to Clause 7.1 of the DMA.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding $1,300,000 may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after a date which is not earlier than 
one year before the date of this Agreement.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of 
the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited 
into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall 
be supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount 
of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (i) the amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the 
Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying 
said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added 
to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the amount of $2,900,000.  Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
Page  12
pursuant to Section 4.03 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve postal service in 
the Borrower’s territory by expanding its coverage and quality, while 
achieving major efficiency gains and introducing new products and 
services in response to growing client needs; and (b) to increase private 
sector participation in the provision of postal services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  13
Part A:
Restructuring of the Post Office
Restructuring of the Borrower’s Post Office Department through, 
inter alia, a program of voluntary labor separation.
Part B:
Private Sector Participation Support
1.
Operation and management of TTP through the DMA.
2.
Development of the second phase of the Borrower’s postal services 
reform, including analysis and decision on the privatization modality and 
structure, and the process to achieve it.
Part C:
Modernization of Facilities and Equipment
Modernization of the postal services facilities and equipment, 
consisting of, inter alia: (a) replacement or refurbishment and 
rehabilitation of existing buildings; (b) construction of a major mail 
clearing center; (c) establishment, as required, of new postal agencies; 
(d) installation of major automation systems for financial, information 
and personnel management; and (e) acquisition and utilization of goods to 
be used in the postal services, such as bicycles, satchels, letter trays, 
sorters, surveillance machinery and uniforms.
Part D:
Project Coordination and Management
Provision of technical assistance for Project coordination and 
management.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of 
Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in 
Dollars)** 
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 2004
through December 15, 2013
745,000
On June 15, 2014
695,000
Page  14
________________________
**
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto, regarding preference for domestically manufactured 
goods, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the 
procurement of works under this Part C.1, bidding documents in a 
standardized form for the Project, acceptable to the Bank, shall be used.
2.
Limited International Bidding
Postal equipment estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $310,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Page  15
Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $310,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to: (i) each contract to be awarded in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part B.1 and C.2 above; (ii) the first 
two contracts to be awarded in accordance with the procedures referred to 
in Part C.1 above; and (iii) the first contract to be awarded in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Parts C.3 and C.4 above.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  16
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply, provided, however, that the terms of 
reference for the respective assignments shall be subject to the Bank’s 
prior review and approval.
