Page  1
February 9, 2001
His Excellency
Gerald Yetming
Minister of Finance
Eric Williams Plaza,
Independence Square
Port-of-Spain
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
Re: Loan No. 4458-TR (Postal Services Reform Project) Amendment to the 
Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Minister:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Postal Services Reform Project) between the 
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated June 14, 1999, (the Loan Agreement). 
Whenever used in this letter, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings set forth therein.
Based on discussions between staff of the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and the 
Bank and pursuant to your letters dated September 7, 2000, the Bank hereby agrees to 
amend the Loan Agreement specified above as follows:
I.
Schedule 4 Section I. Part C is hereby amended by: (a) renumbering paragraphs 3. 
and 4. as paragraphs 4. and 5. respectively and; (b) inserting a new paragraph 3 
therein, immediately after paragraph 2 to read as follows in its entirety: 
"3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines."
II
Schedule 4 Section I where it reads "Part C :Review by the Bank of Procurement 
Decisions" shall read "Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions".  
III
Schedule 4 Section I. Part D.2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety: "The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to: (i) each contract to be awarded in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Part B.1 and C.2 above; (ii) the first two 
contracts to be awarded in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part 
C.1 above; (iii) the first two contracts, and afterwards the first contract for 
every year of project implementation, to be awarded in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part C.3 above; and (iv) the first contract to be 
awarded in accordance with the procedures referred to in Parts C.4 and C.5 
above.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter. 
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Page  2
Director 
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
By /s/ Gerald Yetming
Minister of Finance
Date:
July 13, 2001
