Report No. PID4903
Project Name                     Philippines-Water Districts Development...
Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Water Sector
Project ID                       PHPE4576
Borrower                         Land Bank of the Philippines for the SSD Loan
and                              MWSS for the PPA Loan
Implementing Agency              For SSD Loan: Ms. Cecille Borromeo, Vice
President, Land Bank of Philippines,
Building No. 2.
Senator Gil Puyat Avenue,
Makati City
Fax:    632-817-4619
E-Mail: Cborromeo@mail.landbank.com
For PPA Loan: Mr. Ed. Santos, MWSS Regulatory
Office, MWSS Building, Katipunan Road, Balara,
Diliman, Quezon City
Fax: 632-921-2887
E-Mail: mwssrvea@philonline.net
Date Initial PID Updated                 May 28, 1999
Approval of Project
Restructuring                            May 14, 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background
Significant policy changes have occurred in the Philippine Water Sector in the
last few years. In 1994, the highest policy making body in the country, the
NEDA Board, chaired by the President of Philippines, passed Resolutions Nos. 4
and 5, which laid out the national policies toward water supply and sanitation
provisioning in the country. Following this, in December 1994 the President
convened a Water Summit in Manila in which all leading stakeholders
participated and endorsed the broad policy recommendations of the NEDA Board
as a means of tackling the problem of rapidly deteriorating levels of service
in urban centers of the country. In June 1995, a National Water Crisis Act
(RA 8041) was enacted. Under this legislation, the Executive Branch was vested
with special powers in order to reorganize sectoral agencies, induce greater
private sector participation and improve the overall institutional
environment. The Joint Executive-Legislative Water Crisis Commission
established under the above Act recommended a fairly comprehensive set of
policy options, strategies and approaches aimed at managing water resources in
a sustainable manner. Since the new administration has assumed office the
policy thrusts in the water sector have been reaffirmed, with a continued
focus on enhancing private sector participation and a greater focus on
extending water and sanitation services to the poor.
These national sector policy changes have led to significant organizational
changes within the water supply and sanitation sector. In the Metro Manila
area, the Manila Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) was privatized in



August 1997 through the award of two Concession contracts. In the Water
Districts serving secondary cities and towns, considerable interest is being
shown by investors in supporting different forms of private sector
participation, ranging from Build Operate and Transfer (BOT) to Management and
Concession Contracts. On the wastewater side, following the decentralization
of investment decision-making to Local Government Units (LGUs) after the
passage of the Local Government Code, City Councils in some large secondary
cities have signaled their willingness to invest in basic sanitation
infrastructure, in order to improve the environmental and health conditions of
their communities.
The Water Districts Development Project (WDDP) and a companion LGU Urban Water
and Sanitation Project (LGUUWSP, under implementation), finances investments
aimed at supporting the National Government's efforts at improving sectoral
capacity to deliver basic water supply and sanitation services to consumers.
The WDDP focus is two-fold. First, to test out a public performance audit
system in the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS). Second, to
finance investment programs in sewerage, on-site sanitation, drainage
development and urban environmental improvements in low income communities
based on LGU and community demand.
2.      Objectives
The specific project objectives are:
(i) To assist the Government of the Philippines in developing transparent
regulatory mechanisms in order to facilitate private sector participation in
water utilities.
(ii) To help Local Government Units (LGUs) and water districts of
participating cities plan and implement sewerage and sanitation investments
based on their residents' wishes and willingness to pay.
Thus, the project will deliver sustainable water and sanitation services
through two broad types of interventions. For water supply, technical
assistance will assist MWSS pilot a public performance audit system (the PPA
loan). For sewerage, sanitation and drainage and poverty-targeted
interventions, an investment program will be developed collaboratively with
households, civil society and city councils (the SSD loan). This will enable
the technical staff to respond to community needs, and thus ensure
sustainability of investments. The SSD loan was approved by the Board in
September 1997 to finance sewerage, sanitation and drainage investments in the
cities of Davao, Cagayan de Oro, Cotabato City and Calamba. However,
following the financial problems experienced during the Asian Crisis the four
LGUs did not agree to participate in the project. On the request of the
borrower, the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP), the SSD loan has been
restructured in May 1999 into a line of credit for sewerage, sanitation and
drainage investments on the basis of demand from any LGU willing to borrow on
the project lending terms.
3.      Benefits
The PPA component is piloting a new approach to furnishing consumers with
transparent information on service quality, reliability and satisfaction. The
experience gathered from this program could fundamentally alter the way
service providers and consumers interact with each other. The PPA Loan is a
piloting exercise, but has the potential of sparking private sector interest
to enter into long-term contracts with Philippine water utilities. In turn,
- 2-



these contracts could provide much needed additional investments, management
expertise and client-oriented services through which service delivery and
coverage would improve.
The SSD loan has both policy and project related benefits. The policy-related
benefit of the restructured SSD Loan is that it will enable the Government of
the Philippines to prototype technical, financial and institutional procedures
through which the sanitation policy framework gets translated into investment
programs in the secondary cities and towns. The project-related benefits are
improved sanitation services on a sustainable basis in participating cities.
The expectation is that when residents perceive the benefits of improved
sanitation, the demand for follow-up loans in other parts of the city would
increase.
Investments in trunk infrastructure (i.e. trunk sewerage and primary drainage)
proposed under the SSD loan, will benefit about 300,000 persons. The sewerage
component will serve mainly the initial service area of each city, which
involves the relatively large consumers of piped water supply (office
buildings, hotels, etc.). While this number of beneficiaries is relatively
limited, investments are costly and progress will have to be incremental. The
project experience will assist national policy makers learn on how best a
demand-based approach could be scaled up through other financing channels
available to the LGUs.
Investments in the feeder infrastructure under the SSD loan (i.e. through the
Baronage Environmental Sanitation Plan) will benefit a much larger proportion
of low-income residents. The expected benefits will be reductions in
morbidity caused by gesture-intestinal disease, medical expenses and working
days lost because of illness will decline substantially. The BESP investments
will therefore target the low income communities of the participating LGUs,
and is expected to benefit about 280,000 persons.
4.      Project Risks
As over nineteen months had passed without loan signing, commitment
risks was a major concern addressed during the SSD reappraisal. LBP will be
shouldering the credit commitment risk by signing the Loan Agreement
immediately after Board approval. The proposed revisions in loan documents
mitigates its credit commitment risks by providing flexibility for LGUs of all
classes (Province, City, Municipality and Baronage) to participate according
to the services they want and are willing to pay for. There is, however, the
continued risk of LGUs backing out before project implementation by failing to
enter into the subsidiary loan agreements with the LBP. These risks remain a
major concern until the loan is declared effective. The borrower proposes to
utilize the time between loan signing and effectiveness to obtain the
commitments of the LGUs by entering into the respective subsidiary loan
agreements.
Overall, the possibility of significant downstream benefits if the project
implementation were successful, has led to the restructuring of this high
risk-high return project into a program loan.
5.      Description
The project consists of two loans. The first, the PPA component will finance
technical assistance designed to pilot and field test a privatized public
performance audit system. Independent auditors will monitor, evaluate and
publicly report the performance of the two MWSS concessionaires. The second
-3 -



SSD component, which was restructured on May 14, 1999) will finance trunk and
feeder infrastructure investments in LGUs that express demand for the options
offered under the loan. Trunk infrastructure consists of financing detailed
design, construction and rehabilitation of (i) sewage collection, conveyance
and treatment infrastructure, and (ii) primary drainage infrastructure.
Feeder infrastructure development will be financed through Barangay
Environment and Sanitation Plan (BESP). This component will finance the
design and construction of water supply, sanitation, neighborhood drains and
solid waste management in barangays (or local neighborhood communities) based
on resident's wishes and willingness to pay. In each of the participating
subprojects collected sewage will be treated before release into the water
bodies.
6.      Financing
The World Bank loan will be for US$38.6 million, of which US$36.3 million will
finance the SSD component , and US$2.3 million will finance the PPA component.
The remaining US$16.0 million or 29t of project costs would be financed by
participating LGUs from their budgets, by users of services and MWSS
Regulatory office respectively for the two loans.
7.      Project Implementation
The project's two components will have separate implementation arrangements.
The PPA component will be implemented through MWSS. For the SSD component, a
Project Management Office (PMO) has been established by the Land Bank of the
Philippines. A team of internationally-recruited design and supervision
consultants, appointed by and financed from the project will support the PMO
throughout project implementation. In each of the LGUs, Project Management
Units (PMU) will be established by the mayor's office. Water Districts staff
will participate in the PMUs; and if necessary manage operations and
maintenance of the constructed system.
Civil works for the construction of sewerage systems in each of the
participating cities will be procured on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding. Locally manufactured goods would be granted a preference
of 15t, or the amount of custom duties, whichever is lower. National
Competitive Bidding would be used to procure civil works contracts for
drainage. Very small works for the construction of on-site or communal
sanitation facilities will be done through force accounts by participating
LGUs.
8.      Sustainability of Project Investments
The sewerage and water supply financing responsibilities have been divided
between the investment and operations and maintenance (O&M) phases in order to
ensure the sewerage investments can be sustained. In the investment phase,
LGUs will be the borrowers because they have the capacity to finance
investments both through the IRA mechanism, and their ability to raise
additional revenues locally. Moreover, the LGUs consist of democratically
elected councilors who are responsive to the preferences of the electorate,
consisting of local communities. However, as the LGUs lack both (i) an
enforcement mechanism to ensure that users pay for services and (ii)
technical expertise to operate and maintain the infrastructure efficiently, it
was felt the Water Districts needed to be fully responsible for actually
operating and managing the sewerage infrastructure. The Board of Directors of
- 4 -



the participating Water Districts agreed to this arrangement because sewerage
development falls within their original mandate, as defined in the Provincial
Water Utilities Act of 1973.
In order to assure sustainability, the proposed sewerage systems will finance
their O&M costs through user charges levied on the monthly water bill from
consumers who are convinced the services will benefit them. Households that do
not pay their bills would face the risk of water being cut off by the WDs. It
is felt that this threat is sufficient to assure payment of the sewerage
surcharge and loan for property connections.
For sanitation and drainage investments, the subprojects will vary
substantially in coverage, characteristics and costs, due to the different
levels of income and living standards in the various communities. As much as
possible, sanitation cost recovery will be the responsibility of NGOs and
private contractors; O&M will be the responsibility either of contractors/NGOs
or the entire community (say, for micro-drainage infrastructure and community
sewers).
9.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The World Bank's urban water sector lending program in the Philippines over
the last two decades has largely focused on the MWSS or the Metro Manila area.
It has supported four loans for water supply and one for sewerage since 1978,
totaling US$264 million. Outside the Metro Manila area, the Bank financed the
Provincial Cities Water Supply Project for US$23 million (Loan 1415-PH) to
improve water supply in five towns of Luzon, and the Water Supply in
Provincial Towns Project for US$38 million (Loan 1710/Credit 920-PH) in 1979.
The Water Supply component of the Second Subic Bay Freeport Project (Loan
3745-PH) is US$32.6 million. In rural water supply, the Rural Water Supply
Project for US$35.5 million (Loan 2206-PH) and the First Water Supply,
Sewerage and Sanitation project for US$85 million (Loan 3242-PH) were financed
in 1982 and 1990 respectively.
Evaluations of earlier World Bank or IDA-financed water supply projects
outside Metro Manila were responsible for shifting Bank assistance from
project lending to economic and sector work in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
These assessments indicated that the project performances were hurt by the
absence of a well-articulated sectoral policy framework, the lack of
transparent financing criteria, inadequate management incentives to run water
utilities as commercial enterprises, and political interference in the setting
of water tariffs to fully cover costs of delivering services.
10.     Poverty Category
The project aims at improving access of urban populations to safe water supply
and sanitation. Although the overall impacts would benefit the urban poor in
Metro Manila and the participating secondary cities, the only specific
poverty-oriented subcomponent is the proposed BESP investments (through the
SSD component of the project, as discussed earlier in the section on Project
Benefits).
11.     Environmental Aspects
The project is classified as an Environmental Category A operation. It would
have a marked net positive environmental impact by: (a) facilitating access of
urban populations to reliable and adequate water supply; (b) reducing the
- 5 -



level of human exposure to untreated wastewater, thus providing public health
benefits; (c) providing basic drainage infrastructure in areas prone to
flooding; and (d) providing basic sanitation facilities to the urban poor.
Relatively minor potential negative effects include short-term air, water and
noise pollution and disturbances to traffic and commercial activities. These
will be mitigated by planning and scheduling construction, and by developing
and enforcing strict pollution control regulations for the project sites.
During the operational phase the local water district is being involved to
operate and maintain the facilities because these utilities have adequate
technical expertise to handle any operational emergencies that may occur.
12.     Program Objectives Categories: The restructured project has a
substantial component aimed at mitigating the worst aspects of urban poverty.
Its key objectives - improving access of urban residents to safe water and
sanitation services - would benefit the poor, who currently are most affected
by unsatisfactory water and sanitation services.
13.             The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 4, 1999.
7
6
-6-



