Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4228 PH
Loan Agreement
(Water Districts Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Dated May 15, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4228 PH 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and Land Bank of the Philippines (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of the Philippines (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
Part B of the Project; 
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the LBP Loan (as hereinafter defined) and to undertake such 
other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
(C)
the Republic of the Philippines has requested additional financial 
assistance toward financing Part A of the Project, and the Bank has agreed to extend a 
loan in the amount of two million three hundred thousand dollars ($2,300,000) to the 
Republic of the Philippines (the Republic Loan) pursuant to a loan agreement of even 
date herewith between the Republic of the Philippines and the Bank (the Republic Loan 
Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
“Section 6.03 is modified to read: “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If 
(a) the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
shall have been suspended  with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any 
time the Bank determines, after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan  will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (c) at any 
time the Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes 
the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or 
(d) at any time the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent 
with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of 
the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received 
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with 
respect to an amount of the Loan, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount of the Loan 
shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement and 
the Republic Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms, wherever used in this Agreement, have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who on account of the execution of the 
Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land 
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right in annual or perennial 
crops and trees or any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence 
or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, and "Affected Persons" 
means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an Affected Person;
(b)
“Categories” means the categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and “Category” means any of such Categories; 
(c)
“Charter” means the charter of the Borrower dated August 8, 1963, as 
amended on February 23, 1995;
(d)
“LBP Loan” means the loan extended to the Borrower under this Agreement; 
(e)
“Local Government Unit” and “LGU” mean a political subdivision of the 
Guarantor, at the barangay, municipal, city or provincial level; 
(f)
"Operations Manual" means the manual dated April 27, 1999, specifying the 
managerial, financial, administrative,engineering and environmental policies and 
procedures for the execution of the Project and the eligibility criteria for selection 
of Sub-projects;
Page  3
(g)
“Participating LGUs” means LGUs outside Metro Manila area that have 
entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower;
(h)
“Participating Water Districts” means the Water Districts with which the 
Participating LGUs shall have entered into memoranda of agreement in accordance with 
Paragraph 3 (e) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, for the operation and maintenance of 
the sewerage and sanitation facilities within the jurisdiction of such Participating 
LGUs, and “Participating Water District” means any of such Participating Water 
Districts; 
(i)
"Policy Framework on Resettlement and Compensation of Affected Persons" 
means the policy, satisfactory to the Bank, approved by the Guarantor, for carrying 
out the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of each Affected Person pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Policy Framework may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Guarantor and the 
Bank;
(j)
“Procedural Guidelines” mean the guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Schedule 5 and paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, and established by the Borrower to ensure that in the design and 
implementation of its respective Sub-project each Participating LGU shall take all 
necessary action to avoid or mitigate the involuntary dislocation or temporary 
dismantling of existing structures due to the alignment of sewer lines to be 
constructed under Part B.1 of the Project, and take appropriate measures to resettle 
or relocate, and to rehabilitate persons affected by such involuntary dislocation or 
temporary dismantling of structures; 
(k)
“Project Management Office” and “PMO” mean the office to be established 
and maintained by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
(l)
“Project Management Unit” and “PMU” mean the unit to be established and 
maintained by each Participating LGU in accordance with paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 6 
to this Agreement, to undertake the implementation of its respective Sub-project; 
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(n)
“Subsidiary Loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower to a Participating LGU, under the provisions of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
for the carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project; 
(o)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means the agreements to be entered between 
the Borrower and the Participating LGUs, pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this 
Agreement, and “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means any of such Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements;
(p)
“Sub-project” in respect of each Participating LGU means the specific 
investment project which includes the construction of any combination of water and 
sanitation facilities, sewerage facilities and drainage systems, for which an 
environmental management plan, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, has been 
prepared; such project to be carried out by such Participating LGU under Part B.1 of 
the Project, utilizing the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan; and 
(q)
“Water District” means a local agency of the Guarantor established 
pursuant to Title II of the Provincial Water Utilities Act of 1973, as amended to the 
date of this Agreement, to provide, operate and maintain wastewater collection, 
treatment and disposal facilities within a designated geographical area.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
six million three hundred thousand dollars ($36,300,000).
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank specifically 
authorized for this purpose by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 
(c)
On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and 
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up 
to the amount allocated in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, for 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate 
and the LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
Page  5
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify  the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 
15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project; Management 
and Operations of the Borrower 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part B of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with 
sound financial standards and practices and ensure that Participating LGUs comply with 
appropriate resettlement practices and compensation of Affected Persons, with 
qualified management and personnel, and in accordance with the Charter. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall onlend to each Participating LGU out of the proceeds of the Loan the 
amounts allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), and (3), under subsidiary 
loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including those set out in paragraph 3 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take, or 
concur in, any action which shall have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating 
or waiving any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subsidiary 
Loan and each Sub-project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank 
and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) 
achieve the purposes of the Project. Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part B 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of Part B of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of Part B of the Project and of each Sub-project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and 
Page  6
financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), including the 
records and accounts referred to 
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, and those 
for the Special Account, 
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of said 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as 
shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in 
the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) 
used in its operations. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry out Part B of the Project or to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; 
(b)
the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
Page  7
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower shall have established the Project Management Office and 
appointed the management and staff thereof in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
at least two of the Participating LGUs shall have: (i)
established 
their respective Project Management Units and appointed the management and staff 
thereof in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement; (ii)
entered into Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:  
(a)
that the provisions of the Policy Framework on Resettlement and 
Compensation of Affected Persons are legally valid and enforceable in accordance with 
their terms; and 
(b)
that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in Section 6.01 
(b) (ii) has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective 
Participating LGU, and is legally binding and enforceable upon the Borrower and such 
Participating LGU in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03.The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The President and Chief Executive Officer of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Land Bank of the Philippines
#319 Sen. Gil Puyat Ave.
Makati City, Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  8
LBP PN
64045; 62806 
Makati City
(EasternTelecoms) or
22679 (PhilCom)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Aloysius Ordu 
Authorized Representative
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Jesus F. Diaz 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works for Sub-projects
  19,000,000
100% of foreign
of Participating LGUs
expenditures, and 79%
of local expenditures
 (2)
Goods for Sub-projects
   4,200,000
100% of foreign
of Participating LGUs
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory 
cost), and 65% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services and
    6,100,000
100%
training under Part B
of the Project
(4)
Interest and other charges     7,000,000
Amounts due pursuant
       on the Loan accrued on
to Section 2.02 (c)
or before March 14, 2003
of this Agreement
   __________
TOTAL
   36,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  9
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of Categories 1 and 2 in respect of Sub-projects for Participating 
LGUs unless, in each case, the respective Participating LGU shall have met all the 
conditions for the disbursement of its Subsidiary Loan in accordance with paragraph 4 
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent;
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent;
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts with firms or individuals costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, respectively; and
(d)
training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Republic of the Philippines in: 
(i) creating an institutional environment which would encourage the participation of 
the private sector in water utilities; and (ii) supporting the Participating LGUs in 
improving water sewerage, sanitation and drainage services within the areas of their 
jurisdiction.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Public Performance Audit
Development and piloting of a public performance audit system to measure the 
performance of concessionaires for water and sewerage services, through the provision 
of technical assistance.
Part B:
Water, Sewerage, Sanitation and Drainage Services
1.
Improvement in the water, sewerage, sanitation and drainage services in 
Participating LGUs through the construction of: (i) water, sewerage and drainage 
systems in barangays, (ii) on-site and communal sanitation facilities for residents of 
such LGUs, (iii) a sewerage system consisting of house connections, feeder and trunk 
sewers; (iv) a sewage treatment plant; and (v) drainage facilities. 
2.
Strengthening the capability of the Project Management Office to support the 
Participating LGUs in the design of their respective Sub-projects and to manage the 
overall implementation of the Project, through the provision of consultants’ services. 
********* 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Page  10
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
March 15, 2003
765,000.00 
September 15, 2003
785,000.00 
March 15, 2004
810,000.00 
September 15, 2004
835,000.00 
March 15, 2005
860,000.00 
September 15, 2005
885,000.00 
March 15, 2006
910,000.00 
September 15, 2006
940,000.00 
March 15, 2007
965,000.00 
September 15, 2007
995,000.00 
March 15, 2008
     1,025,000.00 
September 15, 2008
     1,055,000.00 
March 15, 2009
     1,090,000.00 
September 15, 2009
     1,120,000.00 
March 15, 2010
     1,155,000.00 
September 15, 2010
     1,190,000.00 
March 15, 2011
     1,225,000.00 
September 15, 2011
     1,260,000.00 
March 15, 2012
     1,300,000.00 
September 15, 2012
     1,340,000.00 
March 15, 2013
     1,380,000.00 
September 15, 2013
     1,420,000.00 
March 15, 2014
     1,460,000.00 
September 15, 2014
     1,505,000.00 
March 15, 2015
     1,550,000.00 
September 15, 2015
     1,600,000.00 
March 15, 2016
     1,645,000.00 
September 15, 2016
     1,695,000.00 
March 15, 2017
     1,745,000.00 
September 15, 2017
     1,790,000.00
_____________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works for Part B of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996, and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works for Part 
B of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
Page  11
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part C: (a) works under Part B.1 of 
the Project estimated to cost more than $50,000 and less than $1,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $14,300,000; and (b) goods 
estimated to cost more than $100,000 and less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,600,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Part B.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
3.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation 
Works required for Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Part B of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works for 
Part B of the Project shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines 
shall apply to:
(a)
the first three contracts for works, and each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more;
(b)
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or 
more; and
(c)
the first contracts for works and for goods respectively, for each of the 
Participating LGUs regardless of their estimated costs. 
3.
Post Review 
Page  12
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services for Part B of the Project shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection 
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Except as provided under paragraph 2 of this Part B, consultants’ services for 
Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks under Part B of the Project that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants for Part B of the Project shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
for Part B of the Project shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Management Office managed 
and staffed with qualified personnel in adequate numbers, with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be responsible for coordinating 
and managing overall Project activities, including providing technical assistance to:
Page  13
(a)
the Participating LGUs in the conduct of their consultation with the 
service users; the detailed design of their respective water, sewerage, sanitation and 
drainage systems; and procurement and supervision of works; and
(b)
the Participating Water Districts in the implementation of their 
respective memoranda of agreement with the Participating LGUs. 
2.
(a)
The Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Operations 
Manual, as such manual may be updated from time to time by agreement amongthe 
Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish any proposed revision to the Operations Manual 
and to the Procedural Guidelines to the Bank for its prior approval.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that Participating LGUs shall, prior to commencing 
work on their respective  Sub-projects under Part B.1 of the Project:
(a)
undertake the acquisition of all necessary land and other property, 
compensation therefor and resettlement in accordance with the principles and 
institutional procedures established in the Policy Framework on Resettlement and 
Compensation of Affected Persons;
(b)
for each Sub-project where the number of  Affected Persons is higher than 
200, to prepare and furnish to the Bank a detailed resettlement action plan acceptable 
to the Bank documenting the implementation arrangements for resettlement, including 
compensation, relocation and rehabilitation; and
(c)
to complete the implementation of such resettlement action plan in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)
to submit environmental impact assessments, including environmental 
management plans, satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of the construction, operation 
and maintenance of their respective water, sewerage and sanitation facilities and 
drainage systems.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
ensure that Affected Persons shall be compensated, resettled and 
rehabilitated in accordance with the Policy Framework on Resettlement and Compensation 
of Affected Persons.  To that end, the Borrower shall cause each of the Participating 
LGU to comply fully with the Procedural Guidelines as described under paragraph 3 (c) 
(i) of Schedule 6.
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by March 31 and September 30 of each year, beginning on March 31, 2000, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of Part B of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part B of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
(d)
review with the Bank, by such later date as the Bank shall request, each 
report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of Part B of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans
Page  14
1.
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Subsidiary Loan to 
each Participating LGU shall include the following terms and conditions:
(a)
a term of nineteen (19) years with a grace period no later than March 15, 
2003;
(b)
a rate of interest of fourteen percent (14%) per annum;
(c)
repayment in the currency of the Guarantor of the equivalent, at the time 
of withdrawal, of: the respective amounts withdrawn from time to time in respect of 
such Participating LGU under Categories (1), (2), and (3), in accordance with Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement; and
(d)
repayment in the currency of the Guarantor of the amounts withdrawn from 
time to time, under the Subsidiary Loan of such Participating LGU, by the Borrower to 
pay to itself the amount of interest and other charges on such Subsidiary Loan accrued 
and payable on or before the date set forth in Category (4).
2.
Each Subsidiary Loan to a Participating LGU shall be made pursuant to a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, 
whereby the Borrower shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interest of the Bank 
and the Borrower, including the rights to:
(a)
require the Participating LGU to provide adequate resources for and to 
carry out and operate its Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial and environmental standards and 
practices, including the provisions of its environmental management plan referred to 
in paragraph 3 (d) below, and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Participating LGU shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Participating LGU to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing, to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project, 
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Participating 
LGU, including its audited financial statements and, by March 31 of each year 
beginning in 2000 the annual budget appropriations of such Participating LGU; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Participating LGU to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Participating LGU to perform its obligations 
under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower.
3.
Under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement with a Participating LGU, such 
Participating LGU shall undertake the obligations to:
(a)
establish and maintain a Project Management Unit managed and staffed with 
qualified personnel in adequate numbers, including the city engineer, representatives 
from city planning, the city budget office and an operator, which will be a 
representative of the relevant Participating Water District for those Sub-projects 
that will be operated by the Water District, to supervise the implementation of its 
Sub-project and carry out the functions of liaison and coordination with the PMO;
Page  15
(b)
complete the acquisition of all land necessary for its sewage treatment 
plant(s), pump stations and obtain clear title thereto;
(c)
(i) comply fully with the Procedural Guidelines and Resettlement Action 
Plan prior to commencing work on its respective Sub-project; and (ii) provide evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank of its compliance with said Guidelines and Resettlement 
Action Plan;
(d)
(i) prior to commencing work on its respective Sub-project, submit an 
environmental impact assessment, including an environmental management plan, 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; and (ii) thereafter, implement such 
environmental management plan in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, 
and obtain all environmental compliance certificates required under Philippine laws 
and regulations for the operation and maintenance of its sewerage and sanitation 
facilities;
(e)
enter into and thereafter implement a memorandum of agreement with the 
relevant Participating Water District or operator, satisfactory to the Borrower and 
the Bank, whereby such Water District agrees, inter alia to: (i) assume the operation 
and maintenance of the water, sewerage and sanitation facilities within the 
jurisdiction of the Participating LGU after their completion; (ii) apply and collect 
an agreed sewerage surcharge to defray the costs of operating and maintaining such 
facilities and an agreed amortization charge to amortize the costs of sewer 
connections constructed by the Participating LGU; and (iii) transfer to the 
Participating LGU the amount of agreed amortization charge.
4.
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall further provide that no disbursement shall 
occur until: (i) the Loan shall have been declared effective and (ii) the Bank shall 
have been provided with an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel 
acceptable to the Bank showing that such Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the respective Participating LGU and is 
legally binding and enforceable upon the Borrower and such Participating LGU in 
accordance with its terms.  In addition, no disbursements under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements under Categories (1) and (2) shall occur until the Participating LGU shall 
have taken the actions specified under subparagraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of 
paragraph 3 above.
SCHEDULE 7 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of 
$8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  16
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part B 
of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
Page  17
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
