Page  1
June 21, 1999
Hon. Edgardo Espiritu 
Secretary Department of Finance 
Department of Finance 
Building Roxas Blvd., Manila
Dear Secretary Espiritu:
RE:
Water Districts Development Project (LN 4227 PH)
Amendment to Loan Agreement
I refer to the Loan Agreement dated May 15, 1999 between the Republic of the 
Philippines (the "Borrower") and the International Bank for , Reconstruction and 
Development (the "Bank") for the above\1ereferenced Project (the "Loan Agreement"). I am 
pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
In Paragraph (C) of the Preamble, the LBP Loan amount is changed to$36,300,000.
2.
Article 2, Section 2.02 (b): "Bankgo" is changed to "Bangko".
3.
The date set forth in Section 3.04 is changed to December 31, 2000.
4.
Section 5.01 (e) is deleted.
5.
Section 6.01 is changed to read:
"Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (c) of the General  Conditions, namely that the MWSS Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement shall have been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and MWSS."
6.
Part B. l of Schedule 2 is revised to read as follows:
"l.
 Improvement in the water, sewerage, sanitation and drainage services in 
Participating LGUs through the construction of: (i) water, sewerage and 
drainage systems in 
barangays, (ii) on\1esite and communal sanitation facilities 
for residents of such LGUs, (iii) 
a sewerage system consisting of house 
connections, feeder and trunk sewers; (iv) a sewage 
treatment plant; and (v) drainage 
facilities."
7.
Except as specifically amended by this amendment letter, all provisions of the 
Loan Agreement otherwise remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement to the amendments set out above by having 
authorized representatives of the Borrower sign the form of confirmation set forth 
hereinbelow, and returning one fully executed original of this amendment letter to us 
at your earliest convenience and retaining originals of the letter for your records.
This amendment letter shall become effective as of the date first above written, 
once it has been fully executed by all parties thereto.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bharga 
Country Director, Philippines 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED: 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ SEC. EDGARDO B. ESPIRITU
Page  2
Authorized Representative
Date:
28 June 1999
Cc:
Mr. Reynaldo Vea
Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
Katipunan Road, Balara
Quezon City 1105, Philippines
