Page  1
June 8, 1999
Hon. Edgardo Espiritu 
Secretary Department of Finance 
Department of Finance 
Building Roxas Blvd., Manila 
Republic of the Philippines
Mr. Jesus Diaz 
Executive Vice President 
Land Bank of the Philippines 
#319 Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue 
Makati City 
Republic of the Philippines
Dear Secretary Espiritu and Mr. Diaz:
RE.:
Water Districts Development Project (LN 4228PH)
Amendment to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
I refer to the Loan Agreement dated May 15, 1999 between the Land Bank of the 
Philippines (the "LBP") and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the "Bank") for the above referenced Project (the "Loan Agreement") and to the 
Guarantee Agreement dated May 15, 1999 between the Republic of the Philippines (the 
"Guarantor") and the Bank for the same Project. I am pleased to inform you that the 
Bank agrees to amend the Loan and Guarantee Agreements as follows:
1.
Paragraph (C) in the Preamble to the Guarantee Agreement is amended to read as
follows:
"(C)
 by the LBP Loan Agreement the Bank has agreed to extend to the 
Borrower a 
loan in the amount of thirty\1esix million three hundred thousand 
dollars (S36.300,000) (the 
LBP Loan), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the said LBP Loan Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect  of such loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and"
2.
Part A of Section I to Schedule 4 is amended to read as follows:
"Goods and works for Part B of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, and September 
1997 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable."
3.
Part A of Section II to Schedule 4 is amended to read as follows:
"Consultants' services for Part B of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with 
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and  revised in September 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this 
Schedule."
4.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 shall be amended to read as follows:
"4. 
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall further provide that no 
disbursement 
shall occur until: (i) the Loan shall have been declared effective 
and (ii) the Bank shall 
have been provided with an opinion or opinions satisfactory 
to the Bank of counsel 
acceptable to the Bank showing that such Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the Borrower and the 
respective Participating LGU and is legally binding and 
enforceable upon the 
Borrower and such Participating LGU in accordance with its terms. In 
addition, no 
disbursements under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements under Categories (1) and (2) 
shall occur until the Participating LGU shall have taken the actions specified under 
Page  2
subparagraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of paragraph 3 above."
Except as specifically amended by this amendment letter, all provisions of the 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements otherwise remain in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement to the amendments set out above by having 
authorized representatives of the Borrower and Guarantor sign the form of confirmation 
` set forth hereinbelow, and returning the original signed copy to the Bank. We will 
provide the Department of Finance and the Land Bank of the Philippines a fully 
executed original of this amendment letter when the process has been completed.
This amendment letter shall become effective as of the date first above "Titter, 
once it has been fully executed by all parties thereto.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinay Bhargava 
Country Director, Philippines 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED: 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ JOEL A. BANARES
Authorized Representative 
Undersecretary of Finance
Date: 11 June 1999
LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ JESUS F. DIAZ 
Authorize Representative
Date:  July 13, 2000
