Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4227 PH
Project Agreement
(Water Districts Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Dated May 15, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4227 PH 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated by May 15, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM (MWSS). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of the 
Philippines (the Borrower) and the Bank (the Republic Loan Agreement), the Bank has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount of two million three hundred 
thousand dollars ($2,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Republic 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that MWSS agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and MWSS (the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement), the proceeds of the loan provided for 
under the Republic Loan Agreement will be made available to MWSS on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
WHEREAS MWSS, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Republic Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions (as so defined), the Preamble to this Agreement, the 
Page  2
Republic Loan Agreement and the LBP Loan Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) MWSS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Republic Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and public utilities practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for Part A of the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and MWSS shall otherwise agree, MWSS shall carry out Part A of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Republic Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) MWSS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, MWSS shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and MWSS, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the objectives 
of Part A of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
MWSS on said 
plan. 
Section 2.04. MWSS shall duly perform all its obligations under the MWSS 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MWSS shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) MWSS shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Republic Loan.
(b)
MWSS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Republic Loan, or the performance by MWSS of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the MWSS Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of MWSS 
Section 3.01. MWSS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utilities practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. MWSS shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be 
operated and maintained, its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from 
Page  3
time to time, promptly as needed, make, or cause to be made, all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public 
utilities practices. 
Section 3.03. MWSS shall take out and maintain, or cause to be taken out or 
maintained, with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the 
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) MWSS shall maintain records and accounts adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of Part A of the Project and to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
MWSS shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Republic Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of MWSS 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Republic Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify MWSS 
thereof. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
Page  4
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For MWSS:
PANGASIWAAN NG TUBIG AT
  ALKANTARILYA SA METRO MANILA
Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
Katipunan Road, Balara
Quezon City 1105, Philippines
Cable address: 
Telex:
MWSS PH
(722) 27947 MWSS PH
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of MWSS, may be 
taken or executed by its Administrator or such other person or persons as said 
Administrator shall designate in writing, and MWSS shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Manila, Republic of the Philippines as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Aloysius Ordu 
Authorized Representative
METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS
  AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
By /s/ Macra A. Cruz 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Consultants' Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Page  5
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Consultants’ services for Part A of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under Part A of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services for Part A of the Project shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1.
MWSS shall, by December 1, 1999 establish and thereafter maintain a PPA Project 
Management Unit, managed and staffed with personnel in adequate number, with functions 
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, which shall be responsible for 
coordinating and supervising the implementation of Part A of the Project.
2.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, MWSS shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1999, employ consultants, in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to assist MWSS in the development of a 
suitable public performance audit system for the activities of its concessionaires in 
the provision of water and sewerage services;
(b)
ensure that said system shall be developed and furnished to the Bank for 
its review not later than July 1, 2000;
(c)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with MWSS on 
said system; and
(d)
thereafter, take all measures required on its part to introduce and apply 
said system, taking into consideration the Bank’s views on the matter.
3.
MWSS shall:
(a)
not later than November 15, 1999 prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank a report on the results of the 
application of said public performance audit system; and
Page  6
(b)
review with the Bank the report furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) above with the view to ensure the continued and expanded 
applicability of the public performance audit system.
