                                              Document of
                                            The World Bank




                                                                               Report No:ICR0000163




                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                       (IBRD-42270 IBRD-42280)




                                                  FOR

                                             TWO LOANS

       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2.3 MILLION TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                Public Performance Audit (Ln. 4227-PH)

                                                  AND

     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$36.3 MILLION TO THE LAND BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES

                    Sewerage, Sanitation and DrainageDevelopment (Ln. 4228-PH)




                                                 FOR A

                          WATER DISTRICTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 28, 2007




Urban Development Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


 This document has a restricted distribution and maybe used by recipients only in the performance
 of their official duties. It contents may be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective November 2006)
                       Currency Unit = Philippine Peso
                            PhP1.00 = US$0.02
                           US$ 1.00 = PP51


                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
BESP     Barangay Environmental Sanitation Plan
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBD      Central Business District
CDS      City Development Strategy
CSC      Construction Supervision Consultant
DBP      Development Bank of the Philippines
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EO       Executive Order
FM       Financial Management
GEF      Global Environment Fund
GFI      Government Financial Institutions
GOP      Government of the Philippines
HH       Households
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IFC      International Finance Corporation
ILI      Intensive Learning ICR
IRA      Internal Revenue Allocation
JBIC     Japan Bank for International Cooperation
LA       Loan Agreement
LBP      Land Bank of the Philippines
LBP-PMO  Land Bank of the Philippines ­ Project Management Office
LGC      Local Government Code
LGU      Local Government Unit
LM       Linear Meter
LWUA     Local Water Utilities Administration
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MSSP     Manila Second Sewerage Project
MTSP     Manila Third Sewerage Project
MWCI     Manila Water Company, Inc.
MWSS     Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
MWSS-RO  Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System ­ Regulatory Office
NGO      Non Government Organization
NRW      Non Revenue Water

                                        ii

NWRB     National Water Regulatory Board
ODA      Official Development Assistance
OM       Operations Manual
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
PA       Project Agreement
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAWS     Public Assessment of Water Services
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PIDF     Public Information Disclosure and Feedback
PMF      Performance Measurement Framework
PMO      Project Management Office
PMU      Project Management Unit
PPA      Public Performance Audit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PSD      Private Sector Development
PSP      Private Sector Participation
QEA      Quality at Entry
QSA      Quality of Supervision
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SEC      Securities and Exchange Commission
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
SLA      Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SSD      Sewerage, Sanitation and Drainage Development
SSLDIP   Support for Sustainable Local Development and Investment Project
TF       Trust Fund
UP-NEC   University of the Philippines ­ National Engineering Center
WD       Water District
WDDP     Water Districts Development Project
WTC      Willingness to Connect
WTP      Willingness to Pay


                       Vice President:       James W. Adams
                     Country Director:       Joachim Von Amsberg
                      Sector Director:       Keshav Varma
                   Task Team Leader:         R. Mukami Kariuki




                                         iii

                                        PHILIPPINES
                      WATER DISTRICTS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                         CONTENTS


                                                                            Page No.
1. Basic Information                                                        1
2. Key Dates                                                                2
3. Ratings Summary                                                          2
4. Sector and Theme Codes                                                   3
5. Bank Staff                                                               3
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                       4
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                        10
8. Assessment of Outcomes                                                   14
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                                18
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                             19
11. Lessons Learned                                                         22
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners    24
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis                                         25
Annex 2. Restructuring                                                      30
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing                                        31
Annex 4. Outputs by Component                                               35
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis                                    37
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes      43
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                  46
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result                                          47
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                            48
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR            49
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders          51
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents                                      51

MAP: IBRD 35571




                                               1

1. Basic Information
                                                                     WATER DISTRICTS
Country:              Philippines            Project Name:
                                                                     DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project ID:           P004576                L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-42270, IBRD-42280
ICR Date:             06/30/2007             ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                     GOP for Loan 4227-PH
Lending Instrument: SIL                      Borrower:               Land Bank of the Philippines for
                                                                     Loan 4228-PH
Original Total
                      US$ 38.6M              Disbursed Amount:       US$ 17.9
Commitment:
Environmental Category:A
Implementing Agencies

Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) for Loan 4227-PH

Land Bank of the Philippines for Loan 4228-PH
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners

2. Key Dates

      Process           Date            Process             Original Date          Revised / Actual
                                                                                       Date(s)
                                 Effectiveness Loan
Concept Review:     04/02/1996                         09/10/1999               10/08/1999
                                 4227-PH:
                                 Effectiveness Loan
Appraisal:          02/10/1997                         09/10/1999               09/10/1999
                                 4228-PH
                                 Closing for Loan
Approval:           09/09/1997                         06/30/2003               06/30/2003
                                 4227-PH
Restructuring of
                                 Closing for Loan
Loan 4228-PH        05/14/1999                         06/30/2004               12/31/2006
                                 4228-PH
prior to signing

3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           PPA: Moderately Satisfactory; SSD: Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                         PPA: Significant; SSD: Moderate
                                                     PPA: Satisfactory; SSD: Moderately
Bank Performance:
                                                   Satisfactory
                                                     PPA: Moderately Satisfactory; SSD: Moderately
Borrower Performance:
                                                   Satisfactory
* Ratings reported in the electronic data sheet are overall ratings for the project (PPA and SSD).



                                                  2

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

  Implementation Performance          Indicators   QAG Assessments (if
                                                   any)                           Rating:

Potential Problem Project at any
                                     No            Quality at Entry (QEA): None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                        Quality of Supervision
                                     No                                     None
(Yes/No):                                          (QSA):
DO rating before Closing/Inactive
                                     Satisfactory
status:

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       15           05
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                   85           95
                                                               Original
                                                                Priority       Actual Priority

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                              Secondary     Primary
Other financial and private sector development                Primary       Secondary
Municipal governance and institution building                 Primary       Primary
Other urban development                                       Primary       Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                 Primary       Primary

5. Bank Staff
              Positions                         At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:                      James W. Adams               Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:                    Joachim von Amsberg          Vinay K. Bhargava
Sector Manager:                      Keshav Varma                 Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:                 R. Mukami Kariuki            N. Vijay Jagannathan
ICR Team Leader:                     R. Mukami Kariuki
ICR Primary Author:                  Pierre de Raet




                                                  3

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

6.1 Context at Appraisal

(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)
By the early 1990s, water and sanitation service levels in Philippines' urban centers had deteriorated
considerably, mainly due to rapid population growth and urbanization, with negative impact on the
environment. It was increasingly recognized that sector performance had been hurt by the absence
of a well-articulated sectoral policy framework, lack of transparent financing criteria, inadequate
management incentives to run water utilities as commercial enterprises, a highly fragmented market,
low cost recovering tariffs and political interference in setting tariffs.         The relatively poor
performance of Bank-financed operations in the 1980s had encouraged the Bank to shift its
assistance from project lending to sector work. Two other developments also militated in favor of
reviewing sector policies, first, the adoption of the Local Government Code (LGC) in 1991, which
established a far­reaching decentralization of public services in the country, and second, the growing
trend in the 1990s, towards private sector investment in the management of public utility systems.

These factors led the Government (GOP) to undertake a Water Supply and Sanitation Sectoral
Review under the aegis of the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), with the
assistance of the Bank. The highlights of the study were the recognition that the demand for
water/sanitation services was well beyond public financing capacity, thus requiring the need for
greater private sector involvement, cost recovery, management at the lowest appropriate level,
graduation of commercially viable water utilities from concessionary financing, and focusing public
financing on investments in sewerage and sanitation that were cost-effective and financially
sustainable.

On the basis of the review, the NEDA Board, in 1994, adopted resolutions Nos. 4 and 5, which laid
out the national policies for the water/sanitation sector. Resolution No. 4 called for more efficient
management of water resources and encouraged private sector participation, while Resolution No. 5
addressed the growing problem of human waste, stating that sewerage and sanitation investments
should be made on the basis of demand, i.e., on the basis of local preferences and willingness to pay.
In June 1995, the National Water Crisis Act was enacted vesting the Executive Branch with special
powers to address the recommendations of the Review, including the specific crisis faced by the
Metro Manila area. The Bank played a critical role in assisting GOP in developing the new policies,
which closely mirrored the direction taken by policies globally and reflected policy principles of
providing water and sanitation services on the basis of demand and managing these services at the
lowest appropriate level.

Under the new policy framework, GOP launched in 1996, with the assistance of IFC, the
privatization of the operations of Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS), the
entity responsible for water, sewerage and sanitation services in the Metro Manila area. Two
concessionaires were selected, for the Eastern and Western parts of the city, respectively, and the
concession agreements entered into force in August 1997. The new framework also led the Bank to
redefine its assistance to the sector with the objective of operationalizing the new policies, notably in



                                                    4

three ways: (i) by promoting private sector participation (PSP); (ii) by supporting Local Government
Units (LGU) to deliver water and sanitation services in accordance with their new mandate under the
LGC; and (iii) by promoting the role of Government Finance Institutions (GFI) as channels of
external and internal funding to finance investments at the local level. Thus, in 1997, the Bank
initiated a Public Performance Audit (PPA) System in the Metro Manila area as a complement to
MWSS privatization and launched two operations directed at supporting investments by LGUs
through GFIs, one through the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) for the Water Districts
Development Project (WDDP), approved in FY98 and reviewed in this ICR, and one through the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), for the LGU Urban Water and Sanitation Project
(APL- Loan 4422-PH) approved in FY99.

The specific context for the WDDP project and rationale for restructuring is summarized below.

On September 9, 1997, the Executive Directors approved two loans:

        (i) a loan of US$2.3 million to the Republic of the Philippines for piloting a Public
        Performance Audit System in the Metro-Manila area, to be on-lent for implementation to
        MWSS, in accordance with a Project Agreement (PA) between the Bank and MWSS -
        hereinafter referred to as the PPA Loan; and
        (ii) a loan of US$54.5 million to LBP, with the guarantee of the Republic of the Philippines,
        to finance Sewerage, Sanitation and Drainage investments in four large secondary cities
        (Davao, Cotabato, Calamba, and Cagayan de Oro) - hereinafter referred to as the SSD Loan,
        with the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) tasked to provide technical
        assistance.

The Board approval date coincided with the start of the East Asia financial crisis, which led to the
rapid devaluation of the Philppine Peso among other currencies (see evolution of the exchange rate
in Annex 3 (e)). For nineteen months thereafter, the loans remained not signed. The SSD Loan
Agreement (LA) was not signed because LBP was unable to get the four participating cities to sign
Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs), a condition of effectiveness. The LGUs were unwilling to
sign for the following reasons: (i) the East Asia financial crisis had led to uncertainty with respect to
economic growth; (ii) as a result, the cities were hesitant to borrow for capital-intensive trunk
infrastructure; (iii) also, as a result of the crisis, real estate values stagnated or declined thus
depressing demand for capital-intensive sewerage investments; (iv) the mayors and city councils
questioned on-lending rates offered by GFIs, which were more than double the IBRD lending rate;
and (v) LGU commitments to new infrastructure investments were more difficult to come by as 1997
was the third year in the three-year local electoral cycle. Faced with this situation, LBP was
reluctant to take the commitment risk. As there was cross-effectiveness between the two loans, the
PPA loan could not be signed either.

As a result of this, the signing of the two loans was postponed several times, and intensive
discussions between the Bank and LBP were launched in early 1999 with a view to reformulating the
project, keeping its original development objectives unchanged. LBP was keen to retain the loan as a
substantial number of LGUs, after the 1998 elections, had showed interest in accessing LBP funding
to finance urban infrastructure. However, there were conflicting views within the Bank as to
whether the project was to be abandoned, salvaged, or integrated into the ongoing APL project
managed by DBP. After a short Reappraisal mission in March 1999 and a Reappraisal Review


                                                  5

Meeting in April 1999, it was agreed that, due to the pioneering nature of the project, which would
be the first Bank project to channel funds to LGUs through GFIs, the Bank would restructure the
loan and convert it from a project-based loan to a program loan, with each sub-project to be designed
on the basis of the expressed demand of a LGU.

The revisions were aimed at providing flexibility in implementation, using innovative cost-effective
technologies, so that any interested LGU could participate, provided it signaled its commitment by
entering into a SLA upfront with LBP. The design of the new operation was significantly different
in three respects: First, it was converted to a program loan for undefined investments in
water/sanitation as opposed to a pre-identified project (for which complete feasibility studies had
been prepared prior to Board approval); Second, it called for a wide-open marketing effort to LGUs
as opposed to a focus on four large secondary cities under the 1997 design. Given the uncertain
number of sub-projects likely to materialize and, as a result of the considerable depreciation of the
Philippine Peso following the East Asia financial crisis, the Bank proposed to reduce the SSD loan
to US$36.3 million; Third, it assumed that LGUs would be able to complete sub-projects without
assistance from a technical agency - under the restructured project, LWUA was not expected to carry
out this function.

The Bank's management (Regional Vice President) set a deadline of May 15, 1999 for signing the
two loans. However, this did not provide enough time for the team to produce a new appraisal
document that captured the change from a project to a program approach for the SSD component.
Instead, an Operations Manual (OM) agreed between the Bank and LBP, dated April 27, 1999,
specified the managerial, financial, economic analysis, administrative, engineering, and
environmental policies and procedures for the execution of the component and the eligibility criteria
for selection of sub-projects. This document, together with the May 5, 1999, Restructuring Memo to
the Board and the new LA, constitute the basis for assessing performance under the SSD component.
While the 1997 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) remains the relevant document for the PPA
component. The Board approved the restructuring on May 14, 1999, with appropriate changes to the
SSD loan. The PPA Loan was left unchanged at $2.3 million with the cross-effectiveness removed.
The two LAs were signed on May 15, 1999. The SSD loan became effective on September 10,
1999, and the PPA loan on October 8, 1999.

Since the LAs pertaining to the original project were not signed, the present ICR covers the
project as restructured in 1999 and the LAs signed at this time. This is justified on the grounds
that the development objectives of the project, the philosophy behind the restructured project, and
the rationale for Bank involvement remained unchanged., However the SAR differs greatly in
content and can therefore not be used as a basis for this ICR. In each of the Sections below, the
discussion will cover first the PPA loan and second the SSD loan. Since there were two loans,
with components very different in nature and implemented by different entities, the ratings will be
made separately.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the project was to assist the Republic of the Philippines in: (i) creating an institutional
environment which would encourage the participation of the private sector in water utilities; and (ii)
supporting the participating LGUs in improving water, sewerage, sanitation and drainage within the
areas of their jurisdiction.


                                                  6

The key indicators for the PPA loan were the following:

1. Input indicators:
  · consultant appointment to undertake PPA work; and
  · on-schedule establishment of pilot program for PPA in MWSS.

2. Output indicators:
  · pilot reporting formats developed;
  · issue of public audits in sample barangays of MWSS; and
  · positive feedback on utility of PPA from MWSS and other stakeholders.

3. Outcome indicators:
  · satisfactory if GOP decides to extend the PPA system to cover other water utilities.

4. Impact indicators measuring the benefits to communities in terms of service quality improvement
(i.e., increased coverage and reliability of water supply). The following indicators were to be measured
in sample areas of MWSS:
  · percentage of total annual (or daily average) service hours (in which water is available at
    acceptable quality and pressure as defined by a concession agreement or Philippines national
    standards);
  · percentage of households covered;
  · average daily consumption of piped water per person (l/person);
  · average daily (or annual) cost of piped water consumption; and
  · percentage of non-revenue-water (NRW).



The key indicators for the SSD loan, as agreed by the Bank and LBP in the OM, were the following:

1. Output indicators:
  · additional number of households in the project areas using sanitation services according to an
    agreed Barangay Environmental and Sanitation Plan (BESP);
  · length of sewerage collectors and sewage treatment capacity added to their system or number of on-
    site sanitation facilities installed; and
  · number of LGUs with new legal and regulatory frameworks approved by the local legislature that
    make possible the contracting-out of the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the systems.

2. Outcome/impact indicators:
  · at least four LGUs outside Metro-Manila successfully complete project implementation , i.e.,
       provide the planned quality sanitation services to their communities;
  · constructed sewerage and feeder water supply network outsourced to the private sector or water
       district; and
  · number of successor sanitation projects prepared and approved by GOP.




                                                   7

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and reasons/justification


The project objective and the key indicators were not revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well
as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)
There were two primary target groups:

1) GOP was expected to capture policy-related benefits in two ways: (i) the PPA Loan, as a pilot
exercise, was expected to strengthen private sector confidence to engage in long-term contracts with
water utilities, providing much needed additional investments, management expertise and client-
oriented services through which service delivery and coverage would improve; and (ii) the SSD Loan
was to enable GOP to prototype technical, financial and institutional procedures through which the
sanitation policy framework formulated in 1994-95 would be translated into investment programs in
secondary cities and towns.

2) consumers in participating LGUs were expected to capture project-related benefits through improved
access to water, sanitation, and drainage services on a sustainable basis. Expected benefits were in
terms of reduction in morbidity caused by gastro-intestinal diseases, medical expenses, and working
days lost due to illness as well as reduction in environmental degradation.


6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The LA described the two components as follows:

"Part A: Public Performance Audit. (Base cost US$2.5 million).
Development and piloting of a public performance audit system to measure the performance of
concessionaires for water and sewerage services, through the provision of technical assistance.

Part B: Water, Sewerage, Sanitation and Drainage Services. (Base cost US$31.6 million).
1. Improvement in the water, sewerage, sanitation and drainage services in participating LGUs through
the construction of: (i) water, sewerage and drainage systems in barangays, (ii) on-site and communal
sanitation facilities for residents of such LGUs, (iii) a sewerage system consisting of house connections,
feeder and trunk sewers; (iv) a sewage treatment plan; and (v) drainage facilities.

2. Strengthening the capability of the Project Management Office [of LBP] to support the Participating
LGUs in the design of their respective Sub-projects and to manage the overall implementation of the
Project, through the provision of consultants' services."

Two types of investments were envisaged under the SSD component:

Capital-intensive trunk investments in sewerage, drainage and wastewater treatment infrastructure were
to be based on the priorities of LGUs as expressed through Council Resolutions. Base costs for



                                                   8

sewerage investments were indicatively estimated at USS$10.6 million, and for drainage investments at
US$12 million.
The second type of investment consisted of neighborhood level or feeder investments in barangays
identified by LGUs as requiring immediate environmental and sanitation investment programs.
Residents in these subproject areas were to be presented with service options in terms of water supply,
sanitation, neighborhood drains and solid waste management, with the LGU specifying the budget
ceiling to be financed by the loan and/or city equity. Through a participatory process involving NGOs
and Partner Organizations, BESPs were to be prepared. These plans were to include specifications on
how financing costs were to be shared between the LGU and communities, cost recovery ensured, and
the suggested role of the operator of the systems, if any. Base costs for BESP investments were
indicatively estimated at US$8.9 million. See Annex 3 for costs and financing plan.


6.6 Revised Components

SSD component. By amendment dated June 26, 2000, the description of Section 2 of Part B was
slightly modified to cover the financing of the preparation of feasibility studies, as follows: " 2.
Strengthening the capability of the Project Management Office [of LBP] to support the Participating
LGUs in the preparation of feasibility studies, the design of their respective Sub-projects and to manage
the overall implementation of the Project, through the provision of consultants' services." Since this
was a minor revision, it was approved by the Country Director.

6.7 Other significant changes

(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The PPA loan was closed on June 30, 2003, the original closing date, with an undisbursed balance of
US$334,323 cancelled.        Despite the devaluation of the Peso over the period of the loan, no
cancellations were requested.

The SSD loan was substantially scaled back as a result of four cancellations at the request of LBP,
totaling US$18.5 million with an undisbursed amount of US$1.7m cancelled (total US$ 20.3m). The
cancellations were prompted by: (i) continued depreciation of the Peso from P 39/US$1.00 in 1999 to P
51-55/US$1.00 in 2005-06; (ii) loss of interest or withdrawal of several LGUs before signing a SLA;
and (iii) as a result, reluctance of LBP to pay commitment charges while uncertainty regarding the
likelihood of identifying other interested LGUs remained. Despite these cancellations, as a result of
exchange rate fluctuations the actual Peso value of sub-loans did not change substantially.           All
cancellations were approved by the Country Director. The original closing date of June 30, 2004 was
extended twice: to December 31, 2005; and then to December 31, 2006, in order to allow completion of
investments in several LGUs. In May 2000, the Bank also approved an amendment to the LA to allow
the preparation of feasibility studies by the Project Management Office of LBP (LBP-PMO) to assist
LGUs that requested this kind of support.




                                                  9

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The PPA component was prepared as part of the dialogue between the Bank, IFC, GOP and MWSS
on the privatization of MWSS. There was strong commitment at the time on the part of the central
ministries (Department of Finance and NEDA) to develop and extend the PPA, with the help of
LWUA, to other towns in order to promote PSP in the sector. At entry, the Bank made special
efforts to ensure a successful launch of the audit through workshops and seminars on the
methodology and objectives of a PPA system. However, as LWUA's formal role in the project had
been eliminated during restructuring, it was unclear how the roll out of PPA to other utilities outside
Manila would be managed. The PPA was later renamed Public Assessment of Water Services
(PAWS).

For the SSD component, project preparation, design, and quality at entry were negatively affected
by the developments described in Section 6. The Bank team had little time to assess the practical
implications of launching a program loan, with few built-in safeguards against the uncertainties
ahead. As a result, there were some shortcomings at entry with respect to ensuring that LGUs had
technical assistance they required to implement sub-projects. While in the 1997 design technical
support to the four LGUs was to be provided by the Support Office of the LWUA, once the focus
shifted from four WDs to an open menu for all LGUs, LWUA was no longer party to the project.
LGUs were expected to finance any technical assistance they required on their own and LBP, a
financial institution with limited technical capacity, was to mobilize any additional technical
assistance to LGUs through the Construction Supervision Consultant (CSC). In mid 2000, the Bank
took steps to correct this, amending the loan agreement to allow the use of sub-loans for sub-project
preparation/feasibility studies. However, for the BESP model, which was untested, and which was
based on the principles of a demand-driven and bottom-up approach, participatory process, and
flexibility in design based on consumers choice and willingness to pay, sub-project preparation took
between six months and one year to complete, slowing disbursements and increasing costs to the
participating LGUs in terms of commitment fees.

In the restructuring memo to the Board, the following risks were identified: (i) LGUs backing out
before project implementation by failing to enter into a SLA - this was recognized as unavoidable,
and the act of widening the pool of LGU beyond the original four LGUs was expected to mitigate
this risk; (ii) converting from project to program approach without buy-in of sub-borrowers, and
without fully tested technical and institutional rules - this was also considered unavoidable as the
restructuring of the loan left little time to secure sub-loan agreements from LGUs. Although it was
also recognized as a weakness (that could lead to slow or partial disbursement), the Bank felt that the
risk was balanced by strong GOP and borrower commitment and by a strong pipeline from LGUs;
(iii) weak LGU commitment to environmental sanitation investments, particularly sewerage (trunk
system, wastewater treatment), partial loan cancellation, and low interest in capital-intensive trunk
infrastructure following the onset of the 1997 financial crisis, were considered as sufficiently
mitigated by the innovative features and added flexibility offered by the project; and (iv) the
potential for changes in LGU priorities associated with the three-year election cycle was to be


                                                  10

mitigated by having appraisal and implementation of a substantial pipeline of sub-project
investments set to coincide, as much as possible, with the start of the election cycle. Except for the
first risk mentioned above, the others were clearly underestimated, given the limited institutional
capacity and the highly volatile political life at the local level. However, the project was a high
risk/high reward operation that led to several successor operations within and outside the Bank that
have drawn on these lessons in their design (see Section 7.5).

Finally, Bank files are silent on why the name of the project was not amended in 1999, but, clearly,
it then became a misnomer.

7.2 Implementation


(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

PPA component. The component consisted of developing and piloting a public performance audit
system in 50 barangays in both the Eastern and Western service areas of Metro Manila to measure
the performance of the two concessionaires.        The audit was carried out by consultants who
developed the methodology and tested it with the inhabitants of the 100 barangays selected for this
purpose. From the beginning, the National Engineering Center of the University of the Philippines
(UP-NEC) was enjoined to the study to ensure transfer of know-how, technology and expertise. The
PPA audit was successfully completed in July 2001.

SSD component. Some 50 LGUs expressed interest to borrow from LBP for a total investment of
about P1 billion, well enough to have used up the original US$ 36.3 million Bank loan. About half
of the requests were approved on the basis of LBP standard procedures for assessing LGUs'
borrowing capacity. Out of these, ten LGUs signed a SLA with LBP, but four dropped out before
project implementation, one because the municipal council did not ratify the SLA, one because of
the perceived complexity of Bank procurement requirements, and two because they chose to pursue
other financing options which in the end did not materialize. Other reasons for the high drop out rate
are: (i) competition from new ODA funded facilities that were later established in LBP and DBP;
and (ii) active marketing of other financing options, including bond flotation. As a result, the large
demand for the facility in the early part of the project gradually evaporated, leading LBP, as
indicated above, to cancel a total of US$ 20.3 million. Thus, by the end of the project six LGUs had
received loans, four of which financed trunk investments, and the other two financed feeder
infrastructure - water supply, sanitation, micro-drain and solid waste management sub-projects - in
15 Barangays.

For the trunk investments, four cities (Cabanatuan, San Fernando, Candon, and Calbayog) chose
sewerage, drainage and wastewater treatment infrastructure to abate the occurrence of flooding in
their urban core, deemed as hindering economic growth and identified as a priority in their City's
Development Strategy (CDS)1. The interest on the part of these four cities in connecting households
to a sewer system was limited as most households were already using private septic tanks. No
separate sewerage networks or wastewater treatment plants were eventually built as these LGUs
were unwilling, under the circumstances prevailing at the time, to invest in what were perceived as
large scale projects that required land for trunk mains and wastewater treatment plants, were



                                               11

considered disruptive, and required significant financial outlays. Thus, lower cost options such as
septic tanks and combined sewerage/drainage systems that matched consumers preferences were
constructed, along with the purchase of equipment for maintenance of these systems.

For the feeder investments, Panabo City and the Province of Palawan identified low-income peri-
urban and rural barangays in which water and sanitation were priorities. Through a consultative
process, Barangays were assisted to prioritize service improvements and a survey of preferences was
conducted to establish the level of commitment to the subproject. Water supply tariffs were based
on sixty percent of the potential users expressing willingness to pay O&M costs. Initial investment
costs were partly or fully covered by the LGU and agreements outlining cost sharing arrangements
signed with all Water User Associations or Cooperatives (see Section 7.5 below). In both Panabo
City and Palawan, households opted for water supply services, with minor sanitation investments
fully subsidized by the LGUs. Annex 4 details outputs and construction costs broken down between
trunk and feeder investments and between water and sanitation investments.

The following factors affected implementation negatively: (i) the short election cycle coupled with
political interference inevitably impacted project execution, for instance in the selection of the BESP
barangays or in excluding or delaying technically desirable but politically unattractive sub-projects
(a planned sewerage treatment plant in Cabanatuan was postponed in favor of a bridge); (ii) the
technical assistance requirements of the LGUs proved more extensive than initially expected:
although well equipped to manage the financial aspects of the project, LBP was not equipped to
handle capacity building and institutional development aspects of LGU sub-projects, relying de facto
­ and by default ­ on the LGU to manage this with their own staff or consultants with some limited
support from the CSC; (iii) the internal organization and staffing of the PMO was adjusted mid-
course leading to less interaction between the PMO and LGUs, although participation of LBP's
regional lending centers increased - while closer to the client, LBP lending centers were even less
well equipped to handle technical issues; (iv) in several cases, due to lack of reliable cost estimates,
sub-projects had to be scaled back or phased to match net borrowing capacity limits; (v) with respect
to BESP, the participatory process lengthened the period required to prepare feasibility study; and
(vi) environmental clearances and water development permits took long to be obtained due to
bureaucratic obstacles.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

PPA component.         Key monitoring indicators were very comprehensive and well designed,
reflecting the careful preparation of the component. Collection of the technical data was carried out
as planned during the pilot phase to develop the methodology of the audit, with some initial
difficulties with provider (concessionaire) data. The results of the pilot phase were used by the
regulatory office of MWSS (MWSS-RO) and UP-NEC to design the subsequent and ongoing phases
of the program, gradually expanding coverage to include the whole MWSS service area and to
include sanitation. More importantly, the indicators were used by one of the concessionaires, Manila
Water Company, Inc. (MWCI) to design its own monitoring program. This allowed them to closely
monitor and improve performance in key areas being monitored by MWSS.

SSD component. Owing to the fact that at restructuring this was converted to a program loan, the
exact nature of investments, and therefore physical outputs, were unknown. Targets and intended
outcomes were not identified at the outset and no baseline (such as number of households using



                                               12

sanitation services, or length of sewerage collectors, etc.) was established. With the exception of
one case, the indicators agreed between the Bank and LBP in 1999 were defined in general terms
without any quantitative targets to be achieved and to be monitored in any measurable way during
project execution.     Most indicators were therefore met and reported as satisfactory.      LBP is
developing a monitoring system that will improve sub-project reporting and tracking across its LGU
portfolio.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

PPA component. There were no FM, procurement, or environmental issues to report.

SSD component. The FM arrangements were satisfactory, both at the head office of LBP and at its
lending and accounting centers. However, capacity at the LGU level varied fairly considerably and
as a result, in the early stages of project implementation, some LGUs did not maintain separate
project accounts. The matter was resolved by requiring LGUs to keep dedicated accounts with LBP
where counterpart funds and sub-loan proceeds were deposited. With respect to environment
safeguards, oversight rested with the PMO, which recruited an environmental specialist and a social
development specialist. The PMO satisfactorily coordinated compliance of all sub-projects with
Bank guidelines and national environmental rules and regulations.

Since the participating LGUs were not acquainted with Bank procurement guidelines and
procedures, the project reviewed the first contract for works and goods for each LGU. To assist
LGUs, model bidding documents were prepared for all LGUs and LBP provided focused assistance
through workshops and seminars on selection of consultants and bid evaluation. In addition, Bank
and LBP staff conducted joint fiduciary reviews covering FM and procurement. However, the
unfamiliarity of some LGUs with Bank guidelines and procedures remained causes of delay and
lapses in documentation. LBP has refined and improved its LGU lending procedures to take these
early lessons into account and the Bank and other development partners have agreed with GOP on
harmonized procurement rules that will streamline requirements and processes considerably.

As for the social safeguards, an abbreviated resettlement action plan was prepared and satisfactorily
implemented for 13 project-affected persons as a result of the drainage improvements in Calbayog
City. A relocation site was allocated and compensation paid by the City Government to the 13
persons. No other subprojects, required resettlement actions.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity,
and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

PPA component. Upon completing the pilot phase of the audit in July 2001, MWSS launched two
transitional activities: (i) on-the-job training of UP-NEC staff to extend the audit over the whole
MWSS service area, and (ii) re-engineering of MWSS' monitoring system on the basis of the pilot
project's findings. The audit was renamed Public Assessment of Water Services (PAWS) and a


                                                 13

second survey conducted to expand coverage to 420 barangays in 2003. A third survey was
undertaken in November 2006 covering 740 barangays, out of a total of 1,700 barangays. Full
survey coverage is expected within 2-3 years. So far dissemination of performance indicators via
the media has been limited to overview information, although an interactive website that would
allow consumers to review information online is currently being piloted. MWSS-RO financed the
2003 survey from its budget, and, through continued dialogue with the concessionaires, agreed on a
cost sharing plan for the 2006 survey. Thereafter, the cost of future surveys would be fully
recovered in the rate rebasing.

The results of PPA have been used by MWCI to enhance its public image with its customers and
with external agencies as well as its position in the sector as a major private provider of water
services. Furthermore, the extension of PAWS to sewerage and sanitation services in Metro Manila
on a pilot scale is included in the Global Environment Fund (GEF) Manila Third Sewerage Project
(MTSP) ­ (TF 057296). The application of a more limited version of PAWS to water utilities
outside of Metro Manila is also being discussed under a separate Bank project -Local Government
Support for Provincial and Regional Water Supply.

SSD component. For drainage investments, the LGUs concerned have assumed the operation and
maintenance costs within their existing budget. So far, although plans to increase real property taxes
and introduce other charges were mentioned, none have found it necessary to raise taxes to cover
higher O&M costs. For feeder investments, operation of the water system is the responsibility of
Water User Associations (registered as private business entities with the Securities and Exchange
Commission - SEC) or Cooperatives created for this purpose.            Staff of the Association or
Cooperative operate and maintain the system based on water tariffs and sanitation charges agreed by
the community at the time of the BESP process. As discussed in greater detail in Section 9 (Risk to
Development Outcome) and in Annex 5 (Economic Analysis), a number of these institutions are
facing significant challenges (e.g. due to rising energy costs which constitute the largest expenditure
item). The sustainability of these systems is therefore closely being monitored by the LGUs
(Palawan Province and Panabo City) which applied for loans for these systems and which continue
to provide grants for any major or unexpected repairs. LBP does not have a system in place to
continue monitoring sub-project performance after project completion. Its role in the post project
period is limited to monitoring sub-loan repayment.


8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

PPA component. The development objective (DO) of the component is fully consistent with one
of the major tenets of GOP's medium-term development plan and the Bank Group 2006-08 CAS,
i.e., to improve the enabling environment for PSD by strengthening regulatory agencies and
promoting private sector finance of infrastructure projects. The CAS specifically addresses the
need to continue strengthening the regulatory capacity and independence of MWSS-RO. The
relevance of PPA has been demonstrated by its continued expansion in the MWSS area and use in



                                                14

monitoring the concessionaires and its expansion to cover sanitation functions. The failed
concession in West Manila was successfully rebid in January 2007. MWSS-RO will presumably
be in a better position to set targets and monitor performance using PAWS.

SSD component. The DO of the SSD component is also consistent with GOP's priorities and the
2006-2008 CAS, a major pillar of which is to support replicable successes in delivering public
services and improving public institutions at three levels, national, local and private sector. The
objective of supporting LGUs in improving water and sanitation services is consistent with the
specific CAS strategy of assisting LGUs through a coherent performance and capacity building
framework encompassing revenue mobilization, planning and budgeting, fiduciary controls, and
local service delivery. The design of the operation is also consistent with two features advocated in
the CAS "local platform": a participatory approach to encourage greater transparency and
accountability in local government decision-making; and greater reliance on GFIs for the
channeling of funds.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

PPA component.           The objective of creating an institutional environment which would
encourage the participation of the private sector in water utilities was only partly achieved for
three reasons: (i) although the pilot audit was satisfactorily completed and scaled up after loan
closing, and despite the fact that MWSS has re-engineered its monitoring system, it may take
longer than expected to complete the full scale audit because of financing difficulties
experienced by MWSI (although this may change with the introduction of new owners of MWSI
in January 2007); (ii) the results of the most recent audit have not been disseminated to GOP
agencies nor to the public; and (iii) while GOP has initiated actions to have a more independent
regulator in place (a bill for the establishment of a Water Regulatory Commission was submitted
to Congress in 2000), approval of the bill is still pending. Although an executive order (EO 279
of 2004) was issued designating NWRB as the economic regulator for the sector, NWRB has not
been able to assume this role because they lack adequate resources. In this context, the expansion
of PAWS beyond Manila has not been possible.

SSD component.         The objective of supporting participating LGUs in improving water,
sewerage, sanitation and drainage within their area of jurisdiction was achieved since there is a
causal link between project outputs and outcomes in terms of health and other benefits due to
access to safe water and improved sanitation and environment: (i) in the four cities that invested
in drainage, an estimated 261,000 people benefit from improved drainage, and therefore from
reduced exposure to health hazards; and (ii) in the BESP barangays, some 3,500 households (or
about 20,000 people) in poor communities now have access to safe water (expected to rise to
about 5,300 by the design year), over 400 have on-site sanitation, and over 1,650 have access to
communal sanitation facilities, all of which have a beneficial health impact (Annexes 4 and 5).




                                                 15

8.3 Efficiency

(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

PPA component. Not applicable.

SSD component.

There was no EIRR computed for the project at reappraisal as it was a program loan with no pre-
identified projects. The OM therefore included a framework for economic analysis of sub-
projects, although it was not applied during project implementation because the investments
funded were mainly drainage and small scale water supply systems (less than 700 connections),
for which it was deemed unnecessary to undertake economic analysis. The method of economic
analysis adopted in the ICR is a least cost analysis supported by an identification of project
benefits and based on the willingness to pay of LGUs and the beneficiaries (see Annex 5).

From a planning perspective, the economic rationale for the selection of investments at the LGU
level was generally sound. The investments were an output of a systematic planning process
involving broad based participation from stakeholders, local executives and the local legislature.
At the sub-project level, the size, scope and design of investments were such that they maximized
benefits within the LGU's net borrowing capacity as defined by GOP. The willingness to borrow
and to assume loan repayment by the LGUs and the willingness to pay for the services by the
beneficiaries were a measure of the economic value and consumer surplus attached to these
investments in terms of economic, health, and environmental benefits. They were primarily the
basis for the economic justification of the investments. Cost recovery was from a combination of
tariffs and general taxes.

However, and particularly for the BESPs, cost efficiency of investments was influenced by the
quality of the consultations during sub-project preparation. In several cases, the per capita cost of
investments was high and/or running costs higher than anticipated ­ due in large part to rising
energy prices. These factors were compounded by the fact that utility operators had limited prior
experience operating systems and limited means to improve their capacity over the long-term. In
contrast, the trunk investments being operated by the cities, where capacity limitations are less
severe, are deemed to be more sustainable (see Annex 5 for details).

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: PPA: Moderately Satisfactory; SSD: Satisfactory

PPA component: Moderately satisfactory. The uncertainty of achieving the objective of
completing the audit in the MWSS area - although due to extraneous factors such as the failed
concession in one part of Manila and initial problems securing financing­ justifies the rating.
Implementation of the pilot audit per se ­ even if successfully completed ­ was not the objective.
While the pilot audit has had a positive impact on the performance of the concessionaire in Manila
East, it is uncertain whether a similar result will be possible in Manila West, which has recently



                                               16

been successfully rebid. It is worth noting the positive unintended outcome achieved by MWCI
adopting a monitoring system that mirrors the PPA system. This has led to measurable
improvements in performance, increased awareness and responsiveness of concessionaire to public
perception and improved public perception of the quality of service.

SSD component: Satisfactory. Consistent with achievements - as measured against output and
outcome indicators (Annex 1) - the outcome of the SSD is rated satisfactory. A range of benefits
in health, economic, social aspects were realized in all LGUs, despite some shortcomings in
efficiency, which resulted from inevitable political interference and uneven quality in the
participatory process in the BESP investments. However, on balance, the component has
demonstrated the feasibility of LGUs borrowing funds to finance investments in complex socio-
economic improvement sub-projects such as the BESP, provided there is sufficient local technical
and institutional capacity to operate and maintain the investments in a sustainable manner.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

SSD component. The BESP sub-projects had a substantial impact on improving the quality of life
among low income and poor barangays where piped-water supply and sanitation were almost non-
existent. The new investments have measurably improved the quality of life for households in far-
flung barangays in Palawan Province and Panabo City. Women identify several benefits of having
water in their house, including an easier and more comfortable life, cleaner and healthier family,
and more time to do other things than waiting for hours fetching water. Children have more time
for studying and playing and men consider themselves "richer" because they have access to piped
water. Overall, the LGUs and households involved in the project have a greater appreciation of
the need to contribute towards operation and maintenance of systems in order to ensure
sustainability, although their reliance on seasonal income poses a challenge for revenue collectors.
Several BESP sub-projects have expanded their services to meet the needs of neighboring
communities.



(b)Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

PPA component. The audit had a positive institutional development impact in three areas: (i)
MWSS-RO has perfected its monitoring system; (ii) one concessionaire has upgraded its own
monitoring system to mirror PAWS; and (iii) UP-NEC has developed a capacity to conduct
performance audits that could be extended to other urban centers - the range of indicators is
currently being extended to cover sanitation.

SSD component. The project had a positive impact on building LBP's lending program to LGUs.
As the first ODA projects to support lending to LGUs, WDDP played an instrumental role in
increasing access to long term financing for more complex projects such as water supply and
sanitation. Participating LGUs have built up significant capacity to handle FM and procurement
aspects/requirements of sub-projects; and this improved capacity will prove valuable for future


                                                17

borrowing, e.g. from the successor project (SSLDIP) which is larger than the WDDP. The four
cities which undertook drainage investments have built up their technical capacity to implement
and maintain this type of project. However, the project has had a mixed impact on those LGUs
that borrowed for feeder investments, largely because they lack the resources and technical know
how to maximize the project's benefits by extending "just in time" support to BESP recipients.
While the project had expected that private sector involvement in the operation and maintenance
of BESP investments would yield additional benefits, this was not the case as investments were
much too small to be financially attractive to the formal private sector and as a result, BESP
communities created Associations or Cooperatives, registered as private entities with the SEC, that
will have to acquire the necessary skills and capacity over time.



(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

SSD component. Three types of beneficiary surveys were conducted under the BESP sub-
component: (i) Community Mapping, wherein households were interviewed to determine what
type of environmental sanitation improvement was needed by the households and the community;
in almost all sub-projects, piped water and sanitation were the priorities; (ii) in the Willingness to
Connect (WTC) survey, more than 60 percent of the target households signified their interest in
connecting to a piped-water system and commitment to pay the water and sanitation tariffs
computed to cover the cost of repayment of the loan and/or the cost of O&M (see Annex 8 ); and
(iii) during the O&M phase, a beneficiary consultation was conducted on the benefits of the
project; almost all households indicated that their quality of life and their environment had
improved.

Stakeholder workshops/consultations with the LGUs at the provincial, city, municipality and
barangay levels were also conducted to determine the demand and level of commitment to the
project. For each of the BESP sub-components, project orientation workshops were conducted at
the barangay level to involve as many households as possible in determining the type of
environmental sanitation improvement they wanted and were willing to pay for.

Training on leadership and basic organization and financial management was provided by the
Provincial PMU of Palawan and the City of Panabo to all Associations and Cooperatives
managing BESP subprojects.         In addition, officers and staff of the five Associations and
Cooperatives in Panabo City were sent to the WD of Davao City for an orientation on the basic
O&M of a piped-water supply system.



9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: PPA: Significant; SSD: Moderate

PPA component. Significant. The rating is based on an assessment of four probabilities: (i) there



                                                18

may be further delay in promoting the extension of a PPA system to water utilities outside Manila; (
ii) arrangements for transfer of economic regulation function from LWUA to NWRB may not work as
envisioned and within the prescribed time frame; (iii) the extent of PSP in secondary centers is
unlikely to be significant due to political uncertainties/considerations at the local level; and (iv) in the
absence of routine dissemination of the PPA results through the media, public advocacy will not
materialize. Those risks are only partly mitigated by a Bank project ­ currently at identification stage -
that could expand the use of the public audit system in LWUA, support regulatory reforms and
support PSP transactions.

SSD component. Moderate. For the trunk investments, the main risk to the development outcome,
i.e., increased health benefits, is the lack of maintenance of the drainage systems. This risk is
moderate, as the cities concerned have the willingness, political interest, and resources to operate and
maintain the systems satisfactorily. For the BESP investments, the risks are twofold: (i) the limited
capacity of the private sector entities (Associations or Cooperatives) to collect adequate revenue to
sustain the systems; and (ii) limited resources available to the sub-borrowers to provide the necessary
technical assistance to BESP as and when required (see Annex 5 for details). However, on balance,
and since the trunk investments represent about 75 percent of disbursements under the SSD loan, the
risk for the SSD component as a whole is moderate.



10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

10.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: PPA: Satisfactory; SSD: Moderately Satisfactory
PPA component. Satisfactory. There were no shortcomings in identification, preparation or
appraisal. The Bank prepared the component very carefully and convincingly persuaded GOP,
MWSS, and IFC of the usefulness of launching a pilot PPA audit as a tool to promote PSP. At entry,
it played a critical role in ensuring the soundness of the methodology. However, the expectation that
the PPA would be extended to other water utilities, was perhaps overambitious given the existing
institutional framework and MWSS-RO's limited role in this regard.

SSD component. Moderately satisfactory. The high risk/high reward approach introduced at
restructuring allowed the project more flexibility to innovate, thereby responding to GOPs
decentralization and sectoral priorities, supporting efforts to increase access to finance through
financial intermediaries, and bringing global experience to bear on the institutional reform process.
(as in the case of the privatization of MWSS). This approach has paid off; for instance, access by
LGU to GFI financing has improved. Unfortunately, the circumstances in which the project was
restructured left no or little room for properly assessing the institutional framework, both at LBP and
LGU levels, in which the project was to be executed. As such, the institutional capacity of the
LGUs, especially those at the lower level such as municipalities or barangays, and of the private
entities - Associations or Cooperatives ­ was overestimated and insufficient attention was therefore


                                                 19

paid to building capacity in these newly formed entities.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: PPA: Satisfactory; SSD: Moderately Satisfactory

PPA component. Satisfactory. The pilot study and the transition activities were completed in
August 2002, during which time the Bank supervised the component regularly. This dialogue, with
MWSS and the concessionaires, continued even after project closing, through other related projects
that the Bank was supervising. For example, the rate rebasing exercise currently being supported
under the GEF-MTSP will ensure a stable source of financing for the MWSS-RO and the expansion
of indicators to cover sanitation is being supported through the same GEF-MTSP. In addition, the
Bank has continued its effort to assist GOP in expanding the use of PPA. The expansion of PPA to
WDs is currently being considered under the proposed LWUA project.

SSD component. Moderately satisfactory.             The Bank played an active role in monitoring
construction of the physical investments as well as in assisting the different stakeholders to comply
with Bank safeguards and fiduciary issues. Given their demand driven nature, the BESP sub-
projects were fairly complex and the Bank teams were constituted in a manner that reflected the
diverse skills required.    However, weaknesses in institutional capacity at LGU level, and of
Associations and Cooperatives engaged to manage the systems, were not sufficiently addressed.
This raises the question whether a technical assistance component could have been added financed
either through parallel grant financing, or restructuring of the loan given the large uncommitted
balances (although it is unclear that this would have been acceptable to LBP given its commercial
nature). In the absence of a mid-term review, and given the delays in getting SLAs in place ­
leading to a late start for most projects ­ this opportunity did not arise.



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: PPA: Satisfactory; SSD: Moderately Satisfactory

PPA component. Satisfactory. The rating reflects both the high quality at entry and significant
efforts made throughout the project to address shortcomings. While several external factors,
including the financial crisis of the late 1990s, affected the eventual outcome of the pilot audit, the
Bank team continued support for MWSS-RO beyond the timeframe outlined in the loan agreement
through other parallel projects (e.g. the GEF-MTSP supported rate rebasing effort will secure stable
financing for the continuation of PAWS).

SSD component. Moderately satisfactory. Through the innovative approach promoted at
restructuring, the Bank played an important role in demonstrating that a demand-driven approach to
infrastructure investments with financing through a GFI is a workable formula to implement the
sector policies formulated in the 1990s, provided that the LGU has the technical and institutional
capacity to implement, operate and maintain the investments. However, with the limited time
available at restructuring, the Bank overestimated LGU capacity to implement and manage sub-



                                                  20

projects coursed through GFIs, and underestimated the risks attendant to the local political decision-
making process, and the short electoral cycle.

10.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance
Rating: PPA: Moderately Unsatisfactory: SSD: Moderately Satisfactory

PPA component. Moderately unsatisfactory. While the government (excluding MWSS which is
rated under 10.2 (b)) demonstrated ownership and commitment to a PPA system at preparation and
saw to it that implementation of the pilot was successful, it failed to sustain reforms required to
ensure coherence in the sector, including       the congressional bill to establish an independent
regulatory body for the water/sanitation sector, despite participating in deliberations at Congress and
a study tour to US and UK aimed at increasing awareness of sponsors of the bill in both houses and
members of government (NEDA, DOF, Office of the President). When it became apparent that
Congress would not pass the bill, GOP (through Executive Order (EO) 279) assigned the task of
economic regulation of WSPS outside of Manila to NWRB to address the conflict of interest within
LWUA (being both financier and regulator of WDs) and the growing interest of LGUs in engaging
in contractual arrangements with the private sector. However, it failed to ensure that the transition
took place and that NWRB had adequate funding to fulfill their mandate.

SSD component. Moderately satisfactory. At preparation, GOP played a constructive role in
ensuring implementation of the 1990 reforms. However, because of the higher priority accorded to
water services by LGUs, sewerage and sanitation received less attention. Nonetheless, there is
continued interest within government in supporting the search for feasible solutions that could still
somehow move the sector forward but within the willingness to pay of consumers.                This is
manifested in the support for piloting low cost technologies (e.g., communal sanitation systems,
combined sewage/septage treatment, combined sewerage/drainage systems) by MWCI in the Bank-
funded Manila Second Sewerage Project (MSSP) and MTSP, and with the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) under GEF-MTSP. Left to their own devices, on
balance, the LGUs that opted for drainage investments performed satisfactorily, but some of those
that opted for BESP investments were constrained by their limited capacity, despite their
commitment to improve services in low-income communities.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: PPA: Satisfactory; SSD: Moderately Satisfactory

PPA component. Satisfactory.         MWSS showed commitment to the audit, as evidenced by
integration of its results into its monitoring system. It was prompt to assign staff and recruit UP-
NEC to carry out both phases. However, there were delays in starting the full implementation phase
and the dissemination strategy via the media had not been launched at closing. As already noted,
one concessionaire has cooperated closely with MWSS in carrying out the audit. However the other
perceived the performance audit as unfair because of its weaker position: (i) following the 1997 East
Asia financial crisis, it suffered most from the peso depreciation of more than a 100 percent to the


                                                21

US dollar; and (ii) the west zone was a more complex technical operation to work in and manage
(networks in West Manila are over 100 years old). This, compounded by other factors, caused the
company to declare "force majeure" and ultimately bankruptcy in 2003. MWSS has a limited role to
play in promoting or extending the PPA system outside Metro Manila as this falls under the
responsibility of GOP and national agencies.

SSD component. Moderately Satisfactory. This was the first loan of its kind from any ODA to
LBP, who demonstrated a keen interest in the project during preparation and reappraisal as it was
perceived as a vehicle for developing its lending program to LGUs. The project succeeded in
expanding LBP's lending to LGUs as well as increasing access to finance through other
channels-- LBP's cumulative lending to LGUs has grown from Php 11.9 billion in lending to
LGU borrowers in 2000 to 25 billion in 2006. LBP conducted several "roadshows" throughout the
country to promote the project and its concept and, during implementation, managed the financial
and fiduciary aspects of the component satisfactorily, with diligence and effective control over its
network. However, it did not have the technical capacity within its PMO to provide support to
lower level LGUs. This task was therefore assigned to the CSC, who was not adequately equipped
to undertake certain tasks (e.g. training and capacity building) that require a long term presence.
Finally, the PMO/LBP did not build the capacity to manage in a consistent and systematic manner
the information relating to project implementation/monitoring. These lessons have not been lost
on LBP and have been built into the successor project - SSLDIP (Ln 4338 PH).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: PPA: Moderately Satisfactory; SSD: Moderately Satisfactory

PPA component. Moderately satisfactory. The rating reflects on the one hand the satisfactory
carrying out of the audit ­ albeit with some delays ­ and, on the other, the uncertainty that its
medium- to long-term development objectives will be achieved. It is unclear whether PSP in the
sector will be promoted as a result.

SSD component. Moderately Satisfactory. LBP performed well with respect to its handling of
financial and other fiduciary aspects of the project; however, shortcomings in technical and
institutional aspects of the project were not adequately addressed. These emerged during
implementation, although their origin may lie in the design of the operation. GOP did not pursue the
needed reforms to create an environment in which LGUs, especially the small and weak ones, are
expected to manage investments in water/sanitation.       LGUs did not have the capacity and the
financial resources to mitigate the risks to development outcome, and LBP did not consider the
responsibility for provision of technical assistance to LGUs as one of its mandates-- a finding to
evaluate more thoroughly when assessing the role of GFIs as conduits for development finance.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

PPA component. In the absence of an effective regulatory framework, the replication of PAWS for
utilities outside Metro Manila is unlikely to happen. MWSS has succeeded in securing sustainable


                                                22

financing for PAWS through the concessionaires-- replicating the PAWS system outside Manila will
depend on the extent to which the conditions for sustaining it can be created. Given the difficulties
faced by NWRB in assuming a broader regulatory mandate as proposed under EO 279, the expansion
of PAWS outside Manila would require GOP action to revive the stalled reform process and make
available adequate resources. The planned Local Government Support for Regional and Local Water
Supply project will study the possibilities of expanding PAWS outside Metro Manila.

SSD component. When designing, implementing and managing complex sub-projects (such as
private sector contracts for water supply or solid waste landfills), LGUs often require specialized
technical assistance and capacity building support from national government or the private sector .
This support goes beyond routine capacity building in areas such as procurement, financial
management and includes the participatory methodology, design of affordable tariffs, establishment of
regulatory frameworks. As most LGUs and GFIs are unlikely to have this expertise in-house, the
borrower or implementing agency should ensure that the design of on-lending programs takes into
account these technical assistance requirements. GFIs may also consider designing special financing
instruments for special purpose sub-projects (e.g. BESP which require extensive consultation and
participation).

In line with the rapid growth of GFI lending to LGUs (which has doubled since 2000), GOP should
assess how best to strengthen the "development" finance function of these institutions. While LGUs
are expected to exercise autonomy in implementing and managing their sub-projects, LBP also have a
role to play in ensuring and monitoring the quality of inputs (economic viability) and outputs
(functioning infrastructure).    This role is currently limited and in WDDP, was assisted by a
Construction Supervision Consultant. Under the follow-on operation SSLDIP (LN 48330-PH), LBP
will strengthen its sub-project monitoring system to track implementation progress across its LGU
portfolio. Further effort may be required to strengthen in-house technical capacity.

The emphasis on compliance with the BESP process rather than on the quality of the participatory
approach in determining demand and willingness to pay, as well as political considerations in the
choice of barangays, affected cost efficiency of the investments in water supply. In terms of
investment cost per connection, this is 106 percent higher (at P30,869) on average than the ceiling of
P15,000 used as a viability indicator in the industry in designing piped systems, whether these are in
rural or urban barangays2. Given the nature of locations identified by Palawan Province, the cost of
pumping equipment was higher (due to the nature of available water sources) than in Panabo City--
the ceiling of P15,000 was largely maintained in the latter.

Ensuring that affordable financing is available for sub-project preparation (e.g feasibility studies,
consumer surveys) is essential for sub-project sustainability. Under the WDDP project, several LGUs
that obtained a single loan for both preparation and implementation phases noted that they incurred
high commitment costs-- for BESP sub-projects this was due to the lengthy design phase that
required consumer surveys and stakeholder consultation as an input to the design of the sub-project.
By financing these phases separately (e.g. through a two-part loan for (i) preparation and (ii)
construction), overall sub-project costs can be reduced. These lessons have been taken into account in
the design of SSLDIP (LN 48330-PH).

Utility operators of small remote water supply systems are likely to have less experience with private
sector contracts and less ability to manage major or emergency repairs without outside support. While



                                                23

some may be able to acquire adequate in-house capacity to operate and manage these systems
independantly, most require periodic technical assistance and guidance from specialized bodies at
regional or national level (e.g. to revise tariffs).

Project concept and design for operations in the Philippines should take into account the unpredictable
and complex political environment.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                   24

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Loan Document)

The objective of the project was to assist the Republic of the Philippines in: (i) creating an
institutional environment which would encourage the participation of the private sector in water
utilities; and (ii) supporting the Participating LGUs in improving water, sewerage, sanitation and
drainage within the areas of their jurisdiction.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The objective was not revised.

PPA component.

(a) Output indicators

                                Original Target     Formally

   Indicator       Baseline      Values (from        Revised          Actual Value Achieved at
                    Value          approval          Target         Completion or Target Years
                                  documents)         Values
Indicator 1 : Pilot reporting formats developed.
                                                                 · A Performance Measurement
                                                                     Framework (PMF)
Value                                                            · Information Management
(quant. or       0           Not available                           System (IMS)
qual.)                                                           · A Plan for Public Information
                                                                     Disclosure and Feedback
                                                                     (PIDF)
Date achieved 09/09/1997                                         12/31/2003
Comments         · While the PMF was completed by loan closing. The IMS and PIDF are only
(incl. %
                     now being scaled up.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Issue of public audits in sample Barangays of MWSS.
Value
(quant. or       0           Not available                                 100 Barangays
quality.
Date achieved 09/09/1997                                         07/31/2003
                 Out of 1,697 Barangays, 100 were surveyed through the pilot audit. By 2006, this
Comments
                 had been scaled up to 720 under a roll out plan. All 1697 are expected to have been
(incl. %
                 surveyed by 2010.
achievement)



                                                25

Indicator 3 : Positive feedback on utility of PPA from MWSS and other stakeholders.
                                                              From perspective of consumers and
Value
                                                              concessionaires 95 out of 100
(quant. or    0            Not available
                                                              barangays surveyed rate overall
quality.
                                                              quality as good.
Date achieved 09/09/1997                                      12/31/2003
Comments
              One of the concessionaires - MWCI use the PPA to guide their own monitoring plan
(incl. %
              and consider it instrumental in having improved their performance.
achievement)
(b) Outcome indicator

                             Original Target Values      Formally        Actual Value Achieved
   Indicator     Baseline
                  Value          (from approval       Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                   documents)             Values                 Years
Indicator 1 : Satisfactory if GOP decides to extend the PPA system to cover other water utilities.
Value
(quant. or     0                                                        Not achieved
qualit.)
Date achieved 09/09/1997                                                12/31/2003
Comments       PPA has not been extended outside Manila. However MWSS is expanding the
(incl. %       scope of work to cover all 1,627 Barangays and extending its application to
achievement)   sewerage and sanitation services.
(c) Impact indicators


                             Original Target Values      Formally       Actual Value Achieved
   Indicator     Baseline
                  Value          (from approval       Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                   documents)             Values                 Years
               Percentage of total annual (or daily average) service hours (in which water is
Indicator 1 : available at acceptable quality and pressure as defined by a concession agreement
               or Philippines national standard).
Value
(quant. or     0                                                       N/A
qualit.)
Date achieved 09/09/1997                                                12/31/2003
Comments       Consumers rated water quality good to very good, however low water pressure
(incl. %       requires service improvement. Fifty-two (52) barangays out of the 100 surveyed
achievement) have poor or very poor pressure performance.
Indicator 2 : Percentage of households covered.
Value                                                                  MWSS reports an
(quant. or     0                                                       increase in coverage from
qualit).                                                               67% to 87%



                                              26

Date achieved 09/09/1997                                                12/31/2003
Comments
              The PPA is a a survey of connected consumers. By the end of the pilot phase,
(incl. %
              MWSS reported that coverage had increased by an additional 2.1 million people.
achievement)
              Average daily consumption of piped water per person (l/person);
Indicator 3 : Average daily (or annual) cost for piped water consumption;
              Percentage of non revenue water (NRW) .
Value
(quant. or    0                                                         N/A
qualit.)
Date achieved 09/09/1997                                                12/31/2003
Comments
              These specific indicators were not used in the pilot phase. The PPA focused on a
(incl. %
              narrower set of indicators in the concession contract. .
achievement)




                                             27

SSD component.

(a) Output indicators

                             Original Target Values        Formally     Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator     Baseline
                  Value          (from approval         Revised Target    Completion or Target
                                   documents)               Values                Years
               Additional no. of households (HH) in the project areas using sanitation services
Indicator 1 :
               according to the BESP.
Value
(quant. or     0            No target values                                       2,056
qualit.)
Date achieved 05/05/1999 12/31/2006                                    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       This represents about 25 percent of the total number of households in the 15
achievement)   barangays covered by the BESP sub-component.


               Length of sewerage collectors and sewage treatment added to their systems or no. of
Indicator 2 :
               on-site sanitation facilities installed.
                                                                       Length of sewerage
                                                                       collectors: 10,095 LM
                                                                       Communal septic tanks: 40
Value
               Not                                                     Toilet bowls: 2,056
(quant. or                  No target values
               available                                               Septic tanks: 400
qualit.)
                                                                       Combined storm/drainage
                                                                       collection pipeline: 39,187
                                                                       LM
Date achieved 05/05/1999 12/31/2006                                    12/31/2006
Comments
               The combined storm/drainage data refer to the four cities that undertook trunk
(incl. %
               investments.
achievement)
               No. of LGUs with new legal and regulatory framework approved by the local
Indicator 3 :
               legislature for possible contracting out of O&M of the systems.
Value
                                                                       Ten barangays out of 13
(quant. or     0            No target values
                                                                       operational.
qualit.)
Date achieved 05/05/1999 12/31/2005                                    12/31/2006
Comments
               Ten barangays had their Association or Cooperative registered with the SEC or
(incl. %
               other authorizing entity. Three had their application pending with the SEC.
achievement)




                                                28

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators


                             Original Target   Formally

  Indicator    Baseline       Values (from      Revised           Actual Value Achieved at
                 Value          approval         Target          Completion or Target Years
                                documents)       Values
              At least 4 LGUs outside Metro Manila Area successfully completed project
Indicator 1 :
              implementation, with planned quality sanitation services in their communities.
                                                            All LGUs: four cities under the trunk
Value                                                       sub-component and 15 barangays
(quant. or    0            4 LGUs                           supported by two LGU subloans (a
qualit.)                                                    province and a city) for the BESP
                                                            sub-component.
Date achieved 05/05/1999 12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
              Constructed sewerage and feeder water supply network outsourced to private sector
Indicator 2 :
              or water district.
Value
                                                            The 13 barangays that are
(quant. or    0            No target values
                                                            operational.
qualit.)
Date achieved 05/05/1999 12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
              As of November 2006, in the 13 barangays where the water system was operational,
Comments
              the management, operation and maintenance of the system were outsourced to a local
(incl. %
              Association or Cooperative in accordance with a Memorandum of Agreement
achievement)
              between the LGU and the Association/Cooperative.
Indicator 3 : Number of successor sanitation projects prepared and approved by GOP.
Value
(quant. or    0            No target values                 Seven projects.
qualit.)
Date achieved 05/05/1999 12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments      Six projects were under implementation, three financed through LBP, one through
(incl. %      DBP, and two directly by GOP. Four of these were financed by the Bank, one by
achievement) ADB, and one by Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC).




                                            29

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)



Restructuri     Board       ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed at        Reason for

ng Date(s)    Approved      Restructuring  Restructuring in US$  Restructuring & Key
             PDO Change       DO     IP         Millions            Changes Made
May 5, 1999,                                                     Loan not signed 19
Restructurin                  N/A   N/A                        0 months after Board
g Memo                                                           Approval




                                          30

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)


                                       Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest
           Components                                                             Percentage of
                                        (US$ Millions)         Estimate (US$
                                                                  Millions)        Appraisal

SEWERAGE, SANITATION
AND DRAINAGE (Loan                                    29.3                 15.41         52.59
4228-PH)
PUBLIC PERFORMANCE
                                                       2.3                  1.97         85.65
AUDIT (Loan 4227-PH)
            Total Baseline Cost                       31.6                  17.38        55.00
Physical Contingencies                                 0.0
Price Contingencies                                    0.0
             Total Project Costs                      31.6                 17.38         55.00
Project Preparation Facility
                                                       0.0                    0.0          0.0
(PPF)
Interest and other charges on
Loan 4228-PH accrued on or                           7.0**                  0.60         8.57
before March 14, 2003. IBRD
   Total Financing Required                           38.6                 17.98*        46.58



* Excludes counterpart funds provided by LGUs which were paid separately to LBP.
** Interest was miscalculated at restructuring and subsequently adjusted downwards to US$ 0.8m.
See cancellation of US$ 6.2 million under Interest During Construction Category ­ June 30, 2003.

(b) Distribution of costs between SSD sub-components and between water supply and
sanitation investments (in Ph. Pesos and US$ equivalent).

The distribution of costs between trunk and feeder investments was 75 percent and 25 percent,
respectively, and between water supply and sanitation investments 79 percent and 21 percent,
respectively. It illustrates LGU demand and priorities.

LGU Investments and Main Project Components a/
                LGU                                      Cost (P `000)                  %
 Trunk investments (all drainage)
 (a) San Fernando city (laterals,                          48,048
 vacuum tanker, dredging machine,
 rehabilitation of outflow)
 (b) Cabanatuan city (main line,                          455,382
 laterals)
 (c) Candon city (main line, laterals,                    101,892
 vacuum tanker, hydraulic



                                                    31

excavator)
(d) Calbayog city (main line,                                    48,203
vacuum tanker)
                             Total                      653,525 or US$13.1 M                          75
Feeder investments
(a) Palawan province               Total ­ 180,095

   (i) Sibaltan                    Subtotal ­ 13,976                                                  100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 12,365                           88
                                   (b) Sanitation (toilet bowls, communal septic tanks) ­ 1,611       12

   (ii) Liminangcong               Subtotal ­ 18,581                                                  100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 17,144                           92
                                   (b) Sanitation (toilet bowls, rehabilitation of drainage) ­ 1,437  8

   (iii) New Guinlo                Subtotal ­ 23,144                                                  100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 18,054                           78
                                   (b) Sanitation (toilet bowls, communal septic tanks) ­ 5,090       22

   (iv) Sta. Teresita              Subtotal ­ 15,079                                                  100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 13,798                           92
                                   (b) Sanitation (toilet bowls, communal septic tanks) ­ 1,281       8

   (v) Danleg                      Subtotal ­ 8,986                                                   100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 6,014                            67
                                   (b) Sanitation (toilet bowls, communal septic tanks) ­ 2,973       33

   (vi) Caramay                    Subtotal ­ 20,752                                                  100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 16,181                           78
                                   (b) Sanitation (toilet bowls, communal septic tanks) ­ 4,570       22

   (vii) Tumarbong                 Subtotal -12,186                                                   100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 10,743                           88
                                   (b) Sanitation (toilet bowls, communal septic tanks) ­ 1,443       12

   (viii) Alfonso Bliss            Subtotal -21,984                                                   100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 16,791                           76
                                   (b) Sanitation (toilet bowls, communal septic tanks) ­ 5,193       24

   (ix) Port Barton                Subtotal ­ 30,310                                                  100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 17,472                           58
                                   (b) Sanitation (toilet bowls, communal septic tanks) ­ 12,838      42

   (x) Abaroan                     Subtotal ­ 15,097                                                  100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 12,943                           86
                                   (b) Sanitation (toilet bowls, communal septic tanks) ­ 2,154       14
(b) Panabo city                    Total ­ 37,721

    (i) Mabunao                    Subtotal ­ 4,876                                                   100
                                   Water supply (piped system) ­ 2,604                                56
                                   Sanitation (individual toilet bowls and septic tanks) ­ 2,272      44

   (ii) Datu Abdul                 Subtotal ­ 6,047                                                   100
                                   (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 4,949                            83
                                   (b) Sanitation (individual toilet bowls and septic tanks) ­ 1,098  18




                                                       32

    (iii) Manay                           Subtotal ­ 5,634                                                   100
                                          (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 4,537                            82
                                          (b) Sanitation (individual toilet bowls and septic tanks) ­ 1,097  19

    (iv) Malativas                        Subtotal ­ 11,022                                                  100
                                          (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 10,070                           92
                                          (b) Sanitation (individual toilet bowls and septic tanks) ­ 952     9

     (v) Kauswagan                        Subtotal ­ 7,347                                                   100
                                          (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 6,616                            91
                                          (b) Sanitation (individual toilet bowls and septic tanks) ­ 731    10

    (vi) Buenavista                       Subtotal ­ 1,602                                                   100
                                               (a) Water supply (piped system) ­ 1,602                       100
                                               (b) Sanitation - 0                                             0
                                  Total                        215,021 or US$4.3 M                           25
                         Grand Total                          868,546 or US$17.4 M                           100
a/ Costs are net of studies, interest during construction and other charges related to the LGU subloan.
Source: Land Bank of the Philippines



(c) Financing


                                                                 Appraisal          Actual/Latest

         Source of Funds                      Type of                                   Estimate        Percentage of
                                           Cofinancing         Estimate (US$
                                                                  Millions)               (US$            Appraisal
                                                                                        Millions)
   Borrower                                                  0.0                    0.0
INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION                                           38.6                   17.98              46.58%
AND DEVELOPMENT



(d) Disbursement Profile




                                                             33

                      Note: The graph is in currency of the loan/credit/grant.

(e) Evolution in exchange rate: PhPeso/US$

    1995 25.71
    1996 26.22
    1997 29.47
    1998 40.89
    1999 39.01
    2000 44.19
    2001 50.99
    2002 51.60
    2003 54.20
    2004 56.04
    2005 55.09
    2006 51.36 (average Jan/Aug.)

Source: IMF, IFS (period average)




                                               34

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Table 1 - Water supply sub-projects (BESP/feeder component)

Coverage of Constructed Water Supply Systems
  LGU/BESP site         Design Year           Served      2006 Coverage       No. of
                     Coverage (No. of       Population at   b/ in No. of   Households
                        Households)        Design Year a/ Connections and  recipients of
                                                            Population     toilet bowls
 Palawan
 (a) Sibaltan               206                1,030         167 (835)         137
 (b) Liminangcong           587                2,935        371 (1,855)          0
 (c) New Guinlo             391                1,955        335 (2,010)        335
 (d) Sta. Teresita          236                1,180        236 (1,080)        155
 (e) Danleg                 110                 550           80 (400)         110
 (f) Caramay                240                1,200        240 (1,200)        165
 (g) Tumarbong              217                1,085         131 (786)         140
 (h) Alfonso Bliss          349                1,745        349 (1,745)        182
 (i) Port Barton            600                3,000        305 (1,625)        246
 (j) Abaroan                230                1,150         173 (865)         186
              Total         3,166             15,830       2,387 (12,401)     1,656
 Panabo city
 (a) Mabunao                543                2,715        217 (1,875)        149
 (b) Datu Abdul             687                3,435        226 (1,715)         64
 (c) Manay                  455                22,75        312 (1,560)         80
 (d) Malativas              328                1,640        258 (1,290)         63
 (e) Kauswagan              378                1,890         107 (535)          44
              Total         2,200             11,000       1,120 (6,975)       400
      Grand Total           5,366             26,830       3,507 (19,376)     2,056
a/ Household size is 5 persons to a household.
b/ As of October 2006




                                               35

Table 2 - Sanitation, sewerage, and drainage sub-projects (Trunk and BESP components)

Length of sewerage collectors and sewage treatment added to their systems or no. of on-site
sanitation facilities installed
                                                   On site Sanitation    Sewerage    Drainage
                                                       T      ST       SP      STP    CSP
                                                     (un)     (un)    (LM)     (un)   (LM)
 A. Palawan Province
 1. Port Barton, San Vicente                            246            3,913      25
 2. Caramay Roxas                                       165              836       2
 3. Abaroan, Roxas                                      186              499       1
 4. Tumarbong, Roxas                                    140              465       1
 5. New Guinlo, Taytay                                  335            1,338       5      270
 6. Liminangcong, Taytay                                  -                               325
 7. Danleg, Dumaran                                     110             168        2
 8. Sta. Teresita, Dumaran                              155             565        1
 9. Sibaltan, El Nido                                   137            1,685       2
 10. Alfonso Bliss, Quezon                              182              626       1
                  Sub-total A                        1,656            10,095      40      595
 B. Panabo City
 1. Datu Abdul Dadia                                     64        64
 2. Manay                                                80        80
 3. Mabunao                                             149      149
 4. Kauswagan                                            44        44
 5. Malativas                                            63        63
                  Sub-total B                           400      400
 C. San Fernando City                                                                     995
                  Sub-total C                                                             995
 D. Cabanatuan City                                                                    23,822
                  Sub-total D                                                          23,822
 E. Candon City                                                                         6,340
                  Sub-total E                                                           6,340
 F. Calbayog City                                                                         525
                  Sub-total F                                                             525
 Total                                               2,056       400  10,095      40   39,187
Abbreviations:
T       - toilet facilities
ST      - septic tank
SP      - sewage collection pipeline
STP      - sewage treatment plant
CSP      - combined (storm & drainage) collection pipeline
un      -number of units
LM      -linear meters




                                                           36

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

There was no EIRR computed for the project at reappraisal as it was a program loan with no pre-identified
projects. However, the OM included a framework for economic analysis for sub-projects, but it was not
applied during project implementation, since the investments funded were mainly drainage and small
scale water supply systems (less than 700 connections), for which it was deemed unnecessary to prepare
an economic analysis.

The method of economic analysis adopted in this ICR is least cost analysis supported by an identification
of project benefits. The least cost analysis is done within the context of the willingness to pay of LGUs
and the beneficiaries. The willingness to pay of LGUs is represented by their willingness to borrow for
the investment (using IRA as main collateral) 3 and the extent to which they are willing to absorb the cost
of loan repayment. For the BESP sub-projects, this was enhanced by the willingness to pay of the
beneficiaries determined through a willingness to connect (WTC) survey requiring that at least 60% of
them signify their willingness to pay an estimated tariff (to cover at least O&M, a minimum monthly
water consumption of 5 cubic meters, and a nominal amount for sanitation).

Investments were made within the borrowing capacity of the LGUs. For drainage, the limitation of the
LGU budget envelope required that the investment be prioritized and implemented in phases based on an
approved urban drainage master plan (prepared under the project with the LGU borrowing for the studies)
designed according to the hydraulics of the target catchment area and an assumption of rainfall occurrence
for the drains. Priority was given to areas where benefits were highly visible (mainly the central business
district), while contributing to the growth of the city in the short- to medium-term; the participating cities
are either regional business or institutional centers, or transit hubs for newly-opened up municipalities and
barangays.

For feeder investments, LGUs gave priority to barangays (mostly rural) without access to safe and potable
water and with high incidence of water-borne diseases, and where there was a demand from the
beneficiaries for water supply services. The size and scope of the investment and level of service were
based on the LGU budget for the BESP site and the willingness to pay of the beneficiaries for the services
that was determined beforehand. This involved an iterative process of consultation between the project
preparers of the LGU and the recipient communities, the output of which was a design that ensured buy-in
from the communities.

However, the emphasis on compliance with the BESP process rather than on the quality of the
participatory approach in determining demand and willingness to pay as well as political considerations in
the choice of barangays, affected cost efficiency of the investments in water supply.           In terms of
investment cost per connection, this is 106 percent higher (at P30,869) on average than the ceiling of
P15,000 used as a viability indicator in the industry in designing piped systems, whether these are in rural
or urban barangays4. This did not apply to Panabo City where the ceiling of P15,000 was largely
maintained. This is due to the relatively small size of the systems and their location in mostly rural
barangays, where population density is low. For the BESPs in Palawan, other factors such as difficult
water sources (presence of iron, manganese, hydrogeology of the aquifer) and the long distance from the
main power grid of the province - thus requiring the installation of generators - contributed to the high
investment costs. Also, since the choice of barangays was largely politically motivated and since
expectations of stakeholders had already been raised, it was difficult or too late to shift to more viable
areas once it became clear that the systems were to be expensive (Table 1).


                                                   37

Table 1. Investment Cost per Connection by Water Supply System

      LGU/BESP site            Cost of Water Supply         Design Year Coverage          Investment Cost per
                                   System (P `000)           (No. of Households) a/         Connection (P) b/
 Palawan c/
 (a) Sibaltan                           12,365                        206                          60,024
 (b) Liminangcong                       17,144                        587                          29,206
 (c) New Guinlo                         18,054                        391                          46,174
 (d) Sta. Teresita                      13,798                        236                          58,466
 (e) Danleg                             6,014                         110                          54,673
 (f) Caramay                            16,181                        240                          67,421
 (g) Tumarbong                          10,743                        217                          49,507
 (h) Alfonso BLISS                      16,791                        349                          48,112
 (i) Port Barton                        17,472                        600                          29,120
 (j) Abaroan                            12,943                        230                          56,274
                  Average                                                                   44,695 or US$894
 Panabo city
 (a) Mabunao                            2,604                         543                          5,370
 (b) Datu Abdul                         4,949                         687                          7,655
 (c) Manay                              4,537                         455                          11,178
 (d) Malativas                          10,070                        328                          31,268
 (e) Kauswagan                          6,616                         378                          17,238
 (f) Buenavista                         1,602                            -                           -
                  Average                                                                   12,561 or US$251
            Total Average                                                                   30,869 or US$617
a/ Design year is 2006 and 2016 for Palawan and Panabo, respectively.
b/ Household size is at 5 persons per household.
c/ All BESPs in Palawan have generator sets because of unreliable power supply and the long distance from the main power
grid of the province. Generator sets comprised about 5 to 10 percent of the investment cost of the water supply systems.
Source: Land Bank of the Philippines

Project Benefits.

Project benefits are described separately for the two main types of investments: drainage, and water
supply and sanitation.

Benefits from drainage investments. At least 261,000 are estimated to benefit both directly and indirectly
from improved drainage (absence of flooding)5 in the central business district (CBD) of the four cities.
Indirect beneficiaries refer to the transient population who transact business in the CBDs during the day
(Table 2).

Table 2. No. of Beneficiaries of Drainage Investments in Participating Cities, 2005
            LGU                   CBD Population a/           Transient Population        Total Direct/Indirect
                                                                                               Beneficiaries
 San Fernando city                     141,751                       50,000                       191,751
 Cabanatuan city                        32,953                       16,500                        49,453
 Candon city                            6,933                        No data                       6,933
 Calbayog city                          11,188                        1,678                        12,866
                      Total            192,825                       68,178                       261,003
a/ Population of barangays covered by the drainage investments of the project.
Source: LGUs




                                                          38

Other benefits from the drainage investments include the following:

(1) Health benefits in terms of reduced risk of exposure to sewage-contaminated run-off during
occurrences of flooding. This is conservatively estimated at P4.42 M for 2005;6

(2) Increase in economic activity as measured by the increase in number of business permits issued by the
city in the CBD area after project completion. For example, Candon City has seen an increase of about 22
percent in number of business permits issued from 2005 to 2006;

(3) Increase in prices of real property in the area as measured by the increase in market prices and zonal
valuations. Based on interviews with the Project Management Units of the 2 cities visited, the increase in
real property prices ranges between 70 and 100 percent. The increase in zonal values is expected to result
in windfall revenues for the cities; and

(4) Institutional benefits from implementing and operating combined sewer and storm drains, with the
potential of further improvement in environmental conditions through the construction of wastewater
treatment plants in the future7.

Benefits from water supply and sanitation investments. By the design year, an additional 27,000 people in
BESP sites would benefit from improved water supply with a level of service comparable to that available
in urban areas (24 hours supply, a minimum of 3 meters water pressure and water potability according to
national standards). By the end of 2006, close to 20,000 had benefited from the investments. Also, more
than 2,000 households have benefited from better hygiene practices thanks to improved household toilets
and a cleaner environment with the availability of septic tanks (Table 3).

Table 3. Coverage of Constructed Water Supply Systems
    LGU/BESP site           Design Year       Served Population at 2006 Coverage b/ in No. of Households
                          Coverage (No. of      Design Year a/     No. of Connections   recipients of toilet
                            Households)                             and Population            bowls
 Palawan
 (a) Sibaltan                    206                 1,030             167 (835)               137
 (b) Liminangcong                587                 2,935            371 (1,855)               0
 (c) New Guinlo                  391                 1,955            335 (2,010)              335
 (d) Sta. Teresita               236                 1,180            236 (1,080)              155
 (e) Danleg                      110                 550                80 (400)               110
 (f) Caramay                     240                 1,200            240 (1,200)              165
 (g) Tumarbong                   217                 1,085             131 (786)               140
 (h) Alfonso Bliss               349                 1,745            349 (1,745)              182
 (i) Port Barton                 600                 3,000            305 (1,625)              246
 (j) Abaroan                     230                 1,150             173 (865)               186
                Total           3,166              15,830           2,387 (12,401)            1,656
 Panabo city
 (a) Mabunao                     543                 2,715            217 (1,875)              149
 (b) Datu Abdul                  687                 3,435            226 (1,715)              64
 (c) Manay                       455                 22,75            312 (1,560)              80
 (d) Malativas                   328                 1,640            258 (1,290)              63
 (e) Kauswagan                   378                 1,890             107 (535)               44
                Total           2,200              11,000            1,120 (6,975)             400
        Grand Total             5,366               26,830          3,507 (19,376)            2,056
a/ Household size is 5 persons to a household.
b/ As of October 2006



                                                        39

The Willingness to Pay (WTP) of the households internalizes private benefits such as convenience (e.g.,
reducing time spent to fetch water from long distances), better economic opportunities (for employment or
backyard/small scale businesses), and improved health. At the community level, based on interviews and
anecdotal evidence from site visits, a marked improvement in health conditions in terms of lower
incidence of water borne diseases has been reported, in as much as the source of drinking water prior to
the project were not potable shallow wells, creeks and springs. This has also translated into lower
budget/expenditures for the LGU health and sanitation offices.

However, the sustainability of the water supply systems as designed is being threatened by the lack of
capacity of the operators, who are community-based staff hired by cooperatives of associations with
limited or no prior experience in operating similar facilities and lacking the technical and management
skills and know-how, to set tariffs and keep them abreast with increasing O&M costs. Sustainability in
some cases is affected by the poor quality of construction and the lack of buy-in (e.g. location of water
supply) by some communities despite the participatory BESP process used in project design.

Cost recovery of investments and O&M Costs

Sub-loan repayment for both trunk and feeder investment were absorbed by the LGUs and are to be
recovered mainly from general taxes. For the drainage investments, recovery of capital and O&M costs
are entirely shouldered by the borrowing LGUs. In general, the LGU budgets for O&M of drainage
facilities have increased on account of the maintenance cost of equipment procured under the project and
increase in length of drainage pipes that have to be maintained. There are plans, however, for increasing
real property taxes and charging for sewerage connections in the future.

For the BESPs, water tariffs, in the case of Palawan, were designed to cover only O&M costs, including
major repairs and replacement. For Panabo, they were designed to cover both capital and O&M costs.
Typically, revenues include some fees not related to the provision of water supply services (e.g.,
Association membership fees). The performance to date of those water systems that are operational
(numbering 13 out of 15 BESPs - two in Panabo were completing construction during ICR) is marginal in
the sense that they are barely recovering O&M costs. This is probably symptomatic of the low capacity of
the operators, but may also signal consumers inability to afford higher tariffs (to cover significantly higher
fuel cost) given the low economic base of most households (low and seasonal incomes of farmers).
Expenses (i.e., without recovering capital costs) comprise between 74 and 82 percent of revenues (2005
data) for Panabo and Palawan BESPs, respectively ­ rising fuel prices are a key factor.

For both Palawan and Panabo City, the LGUs require that a portion of the funds generated from
operations be remitted to the LGUs to finance major repairs and replacement. In the case of Panabo, this
is in terms of a lease fee8, and in the case of Palawan, 80 percent of net income is supposed to go into a
reserve fund for major expenditures in the future. While these agreements have been signed (for all
operational BESPs in Panabo and for four out of ten in Palawan), none so far has been implemented. In
fact, major repairs to correct poor construction or damage due to inclement weather (typhoon) have so far
been funded by the LGUs9 (Table 4).




                                                  40

Table 4. Extent of Cost Recovery for Operational BESPs, 2005 (in P) a/
    LGU/BESP site           Revenues b/          Expenses (without          Net Income        Expenses as % of
                                                   debt service and                               Revenues
                                                     depreciation)
 Palawan
 (a) Sibaltan                 51,598.30                58,614.00             (7,015.70)              114
 (b) Liminangcong            371,848.46               294,728.50             77,119.96               79
 (c) New Guinlo              279,860.90               305,700.00            (25,839.10)              109
 (d) Sta. Teresita            130,128.48               89,859.00             40,269.48               69
 (e) Danleg                    No data                  No data               No data              No data
 (f) Caramay                   No data                  No data               No data              No data
 (g) Tumarbong               181,222.00               174,011.75              7,210.25               96
 (h) Alfonso BLISS          1,129,307.35              820,864.39             308,442.96              73
 (i) Port Barton             286,609.00               246,624.00             39,985.00               86
 (j) Abaroan                 155,695.00               127,608.00             28,087.00               82
                 Total      2,586,269.49             2,118,009.64            468,259.85              82
 Panabo city c/
 (a) Mabunao                 335,689.02               293,642.97             42,046.05               87
 (b) Datu Abdul              303,823.50               264,867.65             38,955.85               87
 (c) Manay                   496,557.90               284,845.90              211,712                57
                 Total      1,136,070.42              843,356.52             292,713.90              74
a/ CY 2005 was selected to illustrate the financial performance of the operational BESPs having the most recent annual data.
b/ Malativas and Kauswagan were not yet operational at the closing of the loan.

LGU Sub-loans

The methodology used by LBP to determine LGU net borrowing capacity imposes an outer limit on LGU
borrowing, thus defining the size of sub-loans secured under the project, and limiting as a result utilization
of the World Bank loan. This methodology is largely based on a statutory requirement providing that total
debt servicing be maintained within 20 percent of the LGU's regular revenues (in practice, IRA) at the
time of loan application (basically a one year time slice). LBP complements this calculation with
qualitative considerations related to its credit rating system of its borrowers. In general, estimates of net
borrowing capacity by LBP are lower than those calculated by the Bureau of Local Government Finance.

The project OM included an LGU Long-term Financial Planning Model intended to provide an alternative
method of estimating LGU borrowing capacity. This model was seen as a `dynamic' model in the sense
of considering multi-year projections of revenue and income as well as using accrual rather than cash
basis for the projections, since LGUs are essentially considered corporate entities under the LGC. At
reappraisal, it was expected that the LBP and LGUs would adopt this model to plan their investments, but
LBP opted to be conservative and keep its own model, since the project was its first lending program to
LGUs and was seen as a pilot.

Conclusion

There are mixed findings on the economic and financial analyses of the project.

From a planning perspective, the economic rationale for the selection of investments at the LGU level was
generally sound given that the investments were an output of a systematic planning process involving
broad based participation from stakeholders, local executives and the local legislature. At the sub-project



                                                           41

level, the size, scope and design of investments were such that they maximized benefits within the LGU's
budget envelope.      The willingness to borrow and to assume loan repayment by the LGUs and the
willingness to pay for the services by the beneficiaries were a measure of the economic value and
consumer surplus attached to these investments in terms of economic, health, and environmental benefits.
They were primarily the basis for the economic justification of the investments. Cost recovery was from a
combination of tariffs and general taxes.

However, and particularly for the BESPs, cost efficiency of investments was affected by the quality of the
consultations during sub-project preparation in Palawan, in particular. This resulted in some cases in
investments reflecting options that seem too expensive from a technical point of view and/or that led to
poor buy-in of the communities. These factors are affecting sustainability, including the fact that utility
operators, in general, are ill-prepared for their responsibilities and are not sufficiently supported to
increase or improve their capabilities to operate the systems over the long-term. On the other hand, the
trunk investments being operated by the cities where capacities are higher are deemed to be much more
sustainable.




                                                 42

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

        Names                  Title               Unit          Responsibility/Specialty
Lending


Vijay Jagannathan    Sector Manager           MNSSD             1st Task Team Leader
                     Senior Water Supply and
Luiz Tavares                                  AFTU1
                     Sanitation Specialist
Aldo Baietti
                     Sr. Financial Specialist EWDWS

                     Financial Management
Joseph Reyes                                  EAPCO
                     Specialist
Karen Jonesy Jacob   Consultant               EASUR
Cecile Vales         Procurement Spec.        EAPCO
Maya Gabriela Q.
                     Operations Officer       EASEN
Villaluz
Angelina Ibus        Operations Officer



Supervision/ICR
                     Senior Water Supply and
Luiz Tavares                                  AFTU1             2nd Task Team Leader
                     Sanitation Specialist
                     Local Program
R.Mukami Kariuki                              EASUR             3rd Task Team Leader
                     Coordinator
                     Financial Management
Preselyn Abella                               EAPCO
                     Specialist
Christopher Casuga
                     Sanitary Engineer        EASUR
Ancheta
Karen Jonesy Jacob   Consultant               EASUR
Rene SD. Manuel      Procurement Spec.        EAPCO
Benoit Laplante      Public Disclosure
Maya Gabriela Q.
                     Operations Officer       EASEN
Villaluz




                                            43

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No. Date ISR Archived         DO               IP         Actual Disbursements (US$ Millions)
1   05/08/1998            Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   0.00
2   12/16/1998            Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory                                 0.00
3   05/28/1999            Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   0.00
4   12/15/1999            Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   0.00
5   06/14/2000            Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   0.31
6   12/26/2000            Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   2.04
7   06/08/2001            Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   4.11
8   12/20/2001            Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   4.86
9   06/26/2002            Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   5.71
10 12/12/2002             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                   9.44
11 05/15/2003             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                  12.53
12 11/17/2003             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                  14.66
13 03/03/2004             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                  15.06
14 08/20/2004             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                  15.53
15 12/22/2004             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                  15.53
16 06/22/2005             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                  15.53
17 03/08/2006             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                  16.12
18 06/25/2007             Satisfactory    Satisfactory                                 17.98




(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands
                                                   No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                          consultant costs)
Lending
                     FY98                                                             -194.80
                     FY99                                                               -0.43
                     FY00                                                                0.00
                     FY01                                                                0.00
                     FY02                                                                0.00
                     FY03                                                                0.00
                     FY04                                                                0.00
                     FY05                                                                0.00



                                            44

                FY06                        0.00
                FY07                        0.00
                        Total:           -195.23
Supervision/ICR
                FY98                       -5.73
                FY99                        0.00
                FY00               26      80.78
                FY01               27      67.85
                FY02               26      72.92
                FY03               16      37.81
                FY04               12      43.75
                FY05               19      70.89
                FY06               15      39.30
                FY07                1       5.96
                        Total:    142     413.53




                           45

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank               Ratings          Borrower                    Ratings
                    PPA: Satisfactory
Ensuring Quality at                                       PPA: Moderately Unsatisfactory
                    SSD: Moderately    Government:
Entry:                                                    SSD: Moderately Satisfactory
                    Satisfactory
                    PPA: Satisfactory
Quality of                             Implementing       PPA: Satisfactory
                    SSD: Moderately
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:   SSD: Moderately Satisfactory
                    Satisfactory
                    PPA: Satisfactory
Overall Bank                           Overall Borrower   PPA: Moderately Satisfactory
                    SSD: Moderately
Performance:                           Performance:       SSD: Moderately Satisfactory
                    Satisfactory




                                           46

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

BESP sub-components

              SUMMARY OF THE WILLINGNESS TO CONNECT/PAY SURVEY*
                                        NO. OF HHs IN           NO. OF HHs                % OF HHs
            BARANGAY                    THE SERVICE            WILLING TO               WILLING TO
                                             AREA             CONNECT/PAY              CONNECT/PAY
                                                              (WTC SURVEY
                                                                  RESULT)
 PALAWAN
 1. Port Barton, San Vicente                   249                   185                     74%
 2. Abaroan, Roxas                             367                   263                     72%
 3. Caramay, Roxas                             198                   198                     100%
 4. New Guinlo, Taytay                         375                   319                     85%
 5. Liminangcong, Taytay                       522                   318                     61%
 6. Sibaltan, El Nido                          179                   160                     89%
 7. Danleg, Dumaran                            120                   112                     93%
 8. Sta. Teresita, Dumaran                     258                   238                     94%
 9. Tumarbong, Roxas                           387                   273                     71%
 10. Alfonso Bliss, Quezon                     450                   358                     80%

 PANABO CITY, DAVAO DEL
 NORTE
 BATCH 1
 1. Datu Abdul Dadia                           332                   274                     83%
 2. Manay                                      302                   224                     74%
 3. Mabunao                                    352                   243
 BATCH 2
 4. Malativas                                  310                   258                     83%
 5. Kauswagan                                  103                    99                     96%
 6. Buenavista                                 102                    87                     85%

*     Willingness to pay surveys were conducted to assess the extent to which a critical mass of
      households were willing to pay for services. The survey established likely tariffs and overall
      financing envelopes which were to be used to design a cost effective sub-project.




                                               47

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)
None conducted.




                                         48

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

PPA component: Overall, MWSS-RO, as the implementing agency, viewed the implementation of
the PPA component as successful, notwithstanding some delays due to provider (concessionaire)
data. The objective of putting in place a credible, transparent performance measurement framework
that combines consumer and provider data, results organized into an information management
system serving as a decision support tool for both regulator and concessionaires, and a plan for
public disclosure and feedback, is deemed to have been largely met. The immediate results were
better services by the concessionaires as they sought to respond positively and quickly to issues on
service quality in specific areas/barangays where public perception was identified in the survey(s)
as low. Among the highlights considered by MWSS-RO in the implementation of the pilot PPA
are: (a) development of a performance measurement system that is practical, easy to comprehend
and apply, comprehensive and flexible, relevant to Philippine conditions and allowing feedback to
the regulator and the concessionaires; (b) a database and information management system
customized to the regulator's needs; (c) a public information plan developed and partially tested; (d)
a plan developed for sustaining funding of the PPA beyond the pilot phase (between 1 to 2 centavos
per cubic meter of user fee); (e) the participatory manner in developing the system involving a wide
range of stakeholders; and (f) the successful buy-in of the PPA system by the concessionaires.

The Pilot Phase of the PPA Process generated many lessons, most of which are being addressed in
Phase 2. These lessons are that: (a) consumer survey data can be collected efficiently with a well-
run survey operation, even for a large number of households, and this can be done cost-effectively
with local partners (university). Once established, the cost of subsequent surveys are lower and
more predictable; (b) the participation of the concessionaires is essential for developing and
calculating reliable performance indicators and can be increased through sharing of data and
creation of Working Groups to address issues before they become problems (i.e. treat the PPA like a
Partnership Tool); (c) during the pilot phase public information disclosure should be handled
carefully to avoid misinterpretation; (d) the PPA performance measurement system serves as a
better baseline for privatization projects than traditional engineering assessments.

Since completion of the pilot survey in 2001, efforts to institutionalize the PPA system have been
initiated. Taking advantage of the momentum and the lessons learned from the Pilot Project, in
2002 the MWSS Board of Trustees approved the full-scale implementation of PPA in the entire
MWSS service area. They also renamed the PPA Public Assessment of Water Service (PAWS). In
the first year of full scale implementation (March 2003 to February 2004) 420 Metro Manila
Barangays and 1 pilot barangay each from Rizal and Cavite were surveyed with funds from MWSS-
RO and he PAWS website (http://paws-info.org/) launched. In the second year survey coverage
increase to 720 Metro Manila Barangays, and an additional 11 from Rizal and 3 from Cavite. By
the fifth year (2010), all 1,697 Metro Manila Barangays, 25 barangays in Rizal, and 10 in Cavite
will have been incorporated in PAWS. The concessionaires are committed to reimbursing all costs
of the PAWS from 2006 onwards, including the Sewerage and Sanitation Module which is to be
developed and field tested in 2007.

In Conclusion, the Metropolitan Waterworks Sewerage System views the implementation of this
component as successful.




                                                   49

SSD component:         LBP considers that it has achieved the project objectives based on the
performance indicators set out in the project appraisal document, as follows: (a) a benchmark of
four LGUs outside of Manila providing quality sanitation services against the actual number of six
LGUs that have successfully participated in the program; (b) management of 13 operational systems
outsourced to the private sector in the form of lease agreements and memoranda of understanding
with community-based water associations and cooperatives; and (c) seven successor sanitation
projects approved by government.

Among the major issues that were encountered during implementation are the following: (a) the
disruption in subproject preparation brought about by the three-year election cycle - it is
recommended that subproject identification and preparation be synchronized with the election
cycles; (b) long gestation period of projects prepared using a demand driven approach - this
increased commitment fees paid by LGUs, and led to higher overall sub-project costs; (c)
assessment of LGU borrowing capacity determined the size of subprojects as well as their decision
to borrow given other development priorities; (d) low demand from LGUs for sewerage and
sanitation investments which required much more effort in marketing the facility particularly in the
early part of the program; (e) subproject preparation studies funded out of the LGU loans reduced
the amount available for the subproject itself because of borrowing capacity constraints, and (f) the
limited capacity of the LGUs-- including lack of familiarity with project procurement and
environmental guidelines, contributed to delays in implementation; and (f) close supervision and
handholding required by LGUs was deemed expensive by LBP. The lack of a program for
sustained capacity building in operation and maintenance, particularly for BESP investments, is
recognized as a risk to their long term sustainability.

Lessons learned by LBP with respect to its lending operations are as follows: (a) given that
subproject preparation and implementation are likely to take up a good portion of the full term (nine
years) of a local chief executive, it is prudent to select LGUs with local chief executives that are not
in their third term in office; (b) program loans are preferable to project loan as they provide more
flexibility in implementation for the GFI, including in terms of procurement, disbursement,
supervision and performance monitoring; (c) however, the cost of a program loan may be higher
because of the need for more intensive marketing and involvement of regional lending centers, and
for supervision and capacity building assistance to LGUs; (d) the need to build in-house capacity of
both the GFI and LGUs requires that consultancy requirements are appropriately determined,
including arrangements on where consultants would be better posted, that is, whether at LBP or the
LGUs; and (e) the need for a continuing program of capacity building on Bank procedures and
policies for LBP and LGUs to ensure sustainability of operations and investments.

LBPs assessment of the World Bank's performance is as follows: a) the limited menu rendered the
loan inflexible­ LGUs could only borrow for water supply with sanitation; b) cumbersome
procurement procedures led to delays in sub-project processing, and higher costs which were borne
by local government units; c) commitment fees imposed on LBP by the World Bank were passed on
to LGUs thus increasing overall sub-project costs as; and d) similarly sub-project preparation costs
were funded from sub-loans ­ including time spent on participatory planning and preparation of
feasibility studies for small barangays; finally (e) the results monitoring framework for evaluating
the performance of the Project was unclear from the start-- this was a missed opportunity for Land
Bank- Project Management Office and the concerned local government units to design a more
appropriate monitoring system..



                                                    50

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A.



Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, July 29, 1997
Loan Agreement (LN 4228-PH), May 15, 1999
Loan Agreement (LN 4227-PH), May 15, 1999
Memorandum of the President on Restructuring, May 5, 1999
All Amendments to Loan Agreement
Operational Manual, April 27, 1999
Aide-memoire of Bank Supervision Missions
All Project and Implementation Status Reports
Bank Correspondence with GOP, MWSS and LBP
ICR Manila Second Sewerage Project, May 16, 2006
Metropolitan Manila Water and Sewerage System Public Performance Assessment (PPA) Project,
Implementation Completion Report, MWSS Regulatory Office
Implementation Component Report for Water District Development Project (World Bank PH 4228),
Land Bank




                                             51

52

     1The CDS is a planning process spearheaded by the Bank in the late 1990s to help LGUs plan and prioritize their
     investments over the medium-term, so as to strengthen public support beyond the expiration of an incumbent local
     administration's term. Although piloted by LGU officials, it involves a bottom-up approach to decision-making and
     broad-based participation of all stakeholders.
     2This is per the standard of LWUA, the government institution in charge of developing local water utilities throughout
     the country. The Bank-funded LGU APL2 project has an actual average investment cost per connection of about
     P10,000.
     3IRA or internal revenue allotment are grant transfers from GOP. LGUs receive IRA annually and, in general, this
     comprises about 80% of LGU revenues.
     4This is per the standard of LWUA, the government institution in charge of developing local water utilities throughout
     the country. The Bank-funded LGU APL2 project has an actual average investment cost per connection of about
     P10,000.
     5Prior to the improvement in drainage, flooding or stagnant water would occur from a few days to as long as two to
     three months.
     6This is based on the assumption of a total of 30 days a year of flooding and US$5,500/1,000 population per year
     estimated benefit from reduction of risk of exposure to sewage-contaminated run-off (ICR of Manila Second Sewerage
     Project, May 2006) applied on direct beneficiaries only in 2005.
     7 Combined systems is the approach being piloted in the sector to address the low coverage of sewerage in the country,
     given the high cost of separate systems and the disruption in economic activities during construction, particularly in
     CBDs and in highly dense built-up areas of urban centers. Another project piloting combined systems with
     decentralized wastewater treatment facilities is the Bank-funded Manila Third Sewerage Project with the concessionaire
     of the Metro Manila's East zone, Manila Water Company. The drainage investment also served as a catalyst for
     planning and mobilizing resources from other sources (city, provincial and national government agency in charge of
     flood control) complementing the investments made under the project.
     8Estimated at 40% of the average monthly income of the water association or P10,000, whichever is lower.
     9 In Bank-funded LGU APL1 and APL2 projects, the proportion of capital to O&M costs in full cost recovery tariffs is
     60:40
.




                                                                53

