                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                        ReportNo.: 44507




                  PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                           REPUBLICOF THE PHILIPPINES

                    WATER DISTRICTSDEVELOPMENTPROJECT
                          (LOAN4227-PHAND LOAN4228-PH)

                                   June 30,2009




Sector Evaluation Division
IndependentEvaluation Group (WorldBank)

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)

Currency Unit = Philippine Peso (PhP)

1997     US$l.OO          PhP 26.3 1             2002   US$l.OO        PhP 5 1S O
1998     US$l.OO          PhP 40.00              2003   US$l.OO        PhP 53.27
1999     US$l.OO          PhP 39.15              2004   US$l.OO        PhP 55.55
2000     US$l.OO          PhP 40.30              2005   US$l.OO        PhP 56.28
2001     US$l.OO          PhP 49.94              2006   US$l.OO        PhP 53.06



Abbreviations and Acronyms

BESP              Barangay Environmental Sanitation Plan
EL4               EnvironmentalImpact Assessment
ESS               Environmentaland Social Safeguards
GFI               Government Finance Institutions
IFC               International Finance Corporation
LBP               Land Bank of the Philippines
LGU               Local Government Unit
LWUA              Local Water Utilities Administration
NEDA             National Economic Development Authority
NGOs             Non-governmental Organizations
NWRB             National Water Regulatory Board
O M               Operational Manual
O&M               Operations and Maintenance
PAWS             Public Assessment of Water Services (new pame of PPA)
PMO              Project Management Office (of LBP)
PPA              Project Performance Audit (project component)
SLA               Subsidiary Loan Agreements
SSD               Sewerage, Sanitation and Drainage Development (project component)
S2LDIP            Support for Sustainable Local Development and Investment Project
UP-NEC           University of the Philippines-NationalEngineeringCenter

wss
WDDP             Water Districts Development Project
                 Water Supply and Sanitation



Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1to December 31




Director-General, Evaluation                            : h4r.Vinod Thomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)       : Ms.CherylGray
Manager, Sector EvaluationDivision                      : Ms.Monika Huppi
Task Manager                                            : Mr.FernandoManibog

                                                              i


       local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.

  Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the operation
      and supported effective implementation through IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness
                                  through excellence and independencein evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrityof the Banks self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Banks lending operationsthrough field work. In selectingoperations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for
which Executive Directorsor Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likelyto generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular operation of supported
activities after loan/credit closing, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two
dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision. Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory,
Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
unsatisfactory.


                                                                          ...
                                                                         111



Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS                ....................................................................................................................        V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                      ..........................................................................................................        V


PREFACE      ......................................................................................................................................         vi1


SUMMARY      ......................................................................................................................................         IX


I.       SECTOR BACKGROUND AND PROJECT CONTEXT                                                       ....................................................    1


2.       THE PROJECT              ...................................................................................................................        3

              OBJECTIVES. COMPONENTS AND RESTRUCTURING.........................................................                                              3
              COST AND FINANCING ............................................................................................................                5
              IMPLEMENTATION EXPERlENCE ...........................................................................................                          6
              KEY IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS ...................................................................................... 6
              MONITORING AND EVALUATION............................................................................................                          8


3.       PROJECT EVALUATION                       .................................................................................................         10

              RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN




4.       LESSONS LEARNED                     ......................................................................................................         19


ANNEX A BASIC DATA SHEET
            .                                    ..................................................................................................         21


ANNEX B DETAILED OUTPUTS ON WATER SUPPLY. SANITATION. SEWERAGE. AND
            .
DRAINAGE SUBPROJECTS                       ........................................................................................................         25


ANNEX C BORROWER COMMENTS
            .                                              ........................................................................................         27




Table 1 Changes in Project Costs (in US$ million) .......................................................................................................... 6
Table 2. Processing Lag Times for Demand-DrivenProjects ...........................................................................................          8

This report was preparedby FernandoManibog (Task Manager). who assessedthe project inSeptember
2007. Marie Charles provided administrative support.

                                                             iv


Table 3. PPA Component Indicators and Outputs ............................
Table 4. Consumer- and Provider-Level Elementary Indicators
Table 5. SSD Component Indicators and Outputs............................
Table 6. Project Outcome Based on the Achievement of Proje

                                                   V



PrincipalRatings
                                   ICR*                       ICR Review*                      PPAR

Outcome                     Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory


Risk to                       Moderate                     Moderate                     Moderate
Development
Outcome

Bank                  Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory
Performance

Borrower              Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The
ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.

Kev StaffResnonsible
Project            Task Manager/Leader               Division Chief/               Country Director
                                                    Sector Director
AppraisaI            Vijay Jagannathan             Richard Scurfield                Vinay Bhargava
Completion            R. Mukami Kariuki               Keshav Varma              Joachim von Amsberg


                                                  vii


Preface

This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) preparedby IEGfor the Philippines
Water Districts Development Project, which was approved on September 9, 1997, at an estimated
total cost o f US$80.7 million equivalent. The project consisted o ftwo separate loans for the
Public Performance Audit System for the Metro Manila Area (the PPA Loan No. 4227-PH) and
the Sewerage, Sanitation and Drainage Services (SSD Loan No. 4228-PH). The total value o fthe
loans was US$57 million equivalent. The PPA loan was a pilot activity for US$2.5 million. The
SSD loan was originally for US$54.5 million. This was scaled back to US$36.3 million in 1999
due to the sharp depreciation o fthe Philippine peso duringthe East Asian Financial Crisis. This
led to reduced demand for the SSD loan and the project's restructuring on May 15, 1999, at
which time the two loans had a total value o f US$38.6 million equivalent (the PPA loan was also
scaled back slightly to US$2.3 million equivalent).

This PPAR is based on the revised Loan Agreements at restructuring. The PPA loan closed on
the original date o f June 30,2003, at which time US$1.97 million was disbursed and $0.33
million was cancelled. The SSD loan closed on December 31,2006, or two and a halfyears after
the original closing date o f June 30,2004, to allow completion o f pendingactivities. Actual
disbursement o fthe SSD loan totaled US$15.41million at closing, after successive cancellations
amounting to US$20.29 million. Together with interest and other charges o f US$0.6 million
equivalent, the total disbursement at project completionwas US$17.98 million equivalent.

The project was chosen for an IEGassessmentas it tested the viability o f lendingthrough
government financial intermediaries, which involvedthe challenges o f institutional and capacity
building, and adherence to safeguard policies under difficult conditions.

IEGpreparedthis report based on an examination o fthe relevant StaffAppraisal Report,
ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR), legal agreements, project files and archives, as well as
other relevant reports, memoranda, and working papers. Discussions were also heldwith a
number of existingand former Bank staff inWashington DC, as well as inthe Philippines. An
IEGmissionvisited the Philippines in September 2007, conducted site visits, and discussed both
the project and the effectiveness o f Bank assistance with government officials and stakeholders.
Their kindassistance is greatly appreciated.

Following standard E G procedures, copies of the PPAR were sent to relevant government
officials and agencies for their review and comments. Comments from the Borrower were taken
into account and included in Annex C.


                                                ix


Summary

         The Water Districts Development Project (WDDP) was approved by the World
Bank in 1997. The project was identifiedduring the early 1990s when both the Bank and
the government recognized the serious constraints inthe country's water supply and
sanitation (WSS) sector including the lack o f a sector policy and transparent financing
criteria, inadequate incentives for commercial operations, a highly fragmented market, low
tariffs, and political interference intariff-setting. The Bank's global WSS portfolio itself
was performing poorly throughout the 1 9 8 0 ~ ~ the assessed project was inthe new phase
                                                  and
o f projects that sought to adapt to the increasing global trendo f private sector participation
inpublic utility systems.

         The adoption o fthe Local Government Code in 1991 triggeredthe decentralization
o f public services inthe Philippines, leading the National Economic Development
Authority to undertake a Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Reviewwith the Bank's
assistance. The study recommended greater private sector involvement, better cost
recovery, decentralized management, graduation o f commercially viable utilities from
concessionary financing, and prioritization o f investments insewerage and sanitation that
are cost-effective and financially sustainable. Inline with the study's recommendations,
the government enacted the National Water Crisis Act in 1995,calling for more efficient
management o f water resources, private sector participation, and selection o f investments
on the basis o f local demand and willingness-to-pay. This was followed by the
privatization o f the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) assisted by
the InternationalFinance Corporation, withthe concession agreements becomingeffective
in 1997.

         The Bank played a crucial role inassisting government indeveloping a new
policy framework for promoting private sector participation, supporting Local
Government Units (LGUs) to deliver WSS services as mandated by the 1991 Code, and
promoting Government Finance Institutions as channels o f financing for investments at
the local level. InSeptember 1997,the Bank approved the WDDP, whose objectives
were to assist the government in:

         (a) creating an institutional environment to encourage the participation o fthe
private sector inwater utilities; and
         (b) supporting the participating Local Government Units inimproving water,
sewerage, sanitation and drainage withinthe areas o ftheirjurisdiction.

         The project was supported by two loans that corresponded respectively to the
these objectives: one loan was to support a Public Performance Audit System(the PPA
component) inthe Metro ManilaArea to complement the privatization o f MWSS, and the
other loan for Sewerage, Sanitation and Drainage Development (the SSD component).
The 1997 approval coincided with the onset o fthe East Asian financial crisis, which
made the Government and the LGUs reluctant to commit to the project because o f the
steep fall o f the Philippine peso. Thus, the loan agreements were unsigned for 19 months
after approval, and the loans were restructured inMay 1999 with no change inthe project

                                               X



objectives. The SSD loan shifted away from pre-identifiedprojects toward a program
approach responding to specific demands from various LGUs.'The SSD loan became
effective inSeptember 1999, and the PPA loan inOctober 1999.

        The outcomeo fthe project i s moderately satisfactory,based on substantial
relevance, substantial efficacy and modest efficiency.

        The PPA-designed as a pilot activity-was      successfully completed and i s being
scaled up for implementation inthe Metro Manila Area. It encouraged private
participation by introducingan audit systemfor utility performance. This initiated
transparency, accountability and regular reporting on the cost structure, technical
operations and beneficiary outcomes for the WSS sector, for which there was no
established system prior to the project.

        Riskaversion resultingfrom the East Asian financial crisis contributed to low
LGUparticipation underthe SSD component, althoughit inthe end exceeded appraisal
andrestructuringtargets. O fthe 25 LGUsthat were approved based on borrowing
capacity, 10 signed Subsidiary Loan Agreements, o f which 4 dropped out before project
implementation. There were also some project-induced constraints. For example, while
the LGUshadthe responsibility for technical assistance, the innovativenature ofthe
lendingfacility requiredthat LandBank establish consulting resources inorder to bridge
the LGUs' capacity gap as well as buildtheir skills to operate under the new approach.
LandBankas the implementing agency, however, did not have a clear comparative
advantage inproviding technical assistanceto borrowers for WSS projects.

        The participatory processes associated with the Barangay Environmental
Sanitation Plan investmentscaused delay and contributed to the drop in LGUinterest and
increased costs, inpart due to the needto recruit private subproject designconsultants.
The Bank's WSS practice strongly advocates demand-responsive approaches as a
necessary step to ensure sustainability o f the water systems.However, project designs
should correct for the longer time requiredto undertake participatory processes by
ensuring that commitment charges would not be passed on to LGUs, e.g., by signingtwo
sub-loan agreements-one for the designphase and one for implementation.

        The risksto developmentoutcome are moderate. Financing for the PPA
component i s expected to be sustainable, butthis i s less apparent for the SSD component
unless contributions from taxes and tariffs are adequately increased. Bank Performance
i s moderatelysatisfactory inview o f significant risks that were underestimated during
the project's design and restructuring, and weaknesses inaddressing technical assistance
needs and other institutional capacity issues. Borrower Performancei s also
moderatelysatisfactory,due to its failure to sustain reforms that are needed to achieve
sector integration, specifically the congressional bill to establish an independent
regulatory authority for the WSS sector.

        From a sectoral policy perspective, the WDDP has ledto a better understanding o f
the potentials and limitations o fWSS lending through government financial
intermediaries, as well as the terms and conditions under which LGUs can benefit from
on-lendingfacilities. The negative consequencesof government's failure to establish a

                                            xi


regulatory authority and a lead agency for the WSS sector have become much clearer to
government. This, inturn, has made the Bank's ongoing reform dialogue with
government increasingly relevant and has facilitated the integration o f the lessons learned
from WDDP into successor operations, specifically the Support for Strategic Local
Development and Investment Project.

       The lessons derived from WDDP's implementationexperience, especially for
WSS operations that onlend through government financial intermediaries, include the
following:

       A sudden change ina project's lending approach, when done underpressure of
       tight processing timetables and strong exogenous factors, works against effective
       project implementation.
       Issues stemmingfrom the local political economy need to be addressed at project
       entry because they strongly influence local ownership and the ease o f
       implementation.
       While well-intentioned and usefil inbuildingclient ownership, participatory
       processes (usually associated with social and environmental safeguards) require
       substantial up-front time which needs to be built into implementation planning.
       Complex sub-projects such as private sector contracts for water supply or solid
       waste landfillsrequire borrower expertise beyond procurement and financial
       management; thus, adequateprovisions should be made for the significant
       technical assistance requirementso f local borrowers, including monitoring and
       reporting on subproject outcomes.




                                                                         Vinod Thomas
                                                                       Director-General
                                                                           Evaluation


                                                  1


1. Sector Background and Project Context

1.1      As a result ofrapidpopulationgrowth and urbanization, Water Supply and Sanitation
(WSS) service levels inPhilippines' urbancenters had deteriorated considerably by the early-
1990s, accompanied by serious negative environmentalandhealth impacts. Boththe
government and the World Bank recognized that the sector's performance had been set back
by six factors:

         the absence ofa well-articulated policy framework for the sector;
          lack o ftransparent criteria for financing sector investments;
         inadequate incentives to manage the water utilities as commercial enterprises;
         a highly fragmentedmarket;
         tariffs that are too low to recover costs; and
         political interference intariff-setting.

1.2      Inresponse, the Bank shifted its assistancefromproject lendingto sector work. The
reviewof sector policies was drivenby three factors. First, the Bank-financed urbanWSS
global operations were performingpoorly inthe 1980sand a new strategic approach was
required.Second, the growing global trend toward private sector participation and investment
inpublic utility systems duringthe 1990srequiredanewBank lendingresponse. Third, in
the Philippines, adoption o fthe Local Government Code (Code) in 1991triggered a far-
reaching decentralization o f the public services. Under the Code, municipal governments
received substantial block transfers each year through a formula-based Internal Revenue
Allocation that supplementedtheir local resources.

1.3      Subsequently, the National Economic Development Authority undertook a Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Review withthe assistanceof the Bank. The main conclusion
o f the study was that the demand for WSS services was well beyondpublic financing
capacity. Solutions recommended included: requiringgreater private sector involvement,
better cost recovery, decentralized managementat the lowest appropriate level, graduation of
commercially viable water utilities from concessionary financing, and, for public financing
purposes, the prioritization o f cost-effective and financially sustainable investments in
sewerage and sanitation.

1.4      The National Economic Development Authority acted uponthe study's
recommendations by laying out specific national policies for the WSS sector in 1994l. This
was followed by the National Water Crisis Act in 1995, which vestedthe Executive Branch
with special powers to act on the recommendations, and specifically to addressthe water and
sanitation crisis inthe Metro Manila area. The Bank played a critical role inassisting the
government indevelopingthese new policies, which reflectedthe widely accepted principles


1. Specifically, the National Economic DevelopmentAuthority's Board adoptedResolutionsNos. 4 and 5.
ResolutionNo. 4 called for more efficient managementof water resourcesand encouragedprivate sector
participation. ResolutionNo. 5 addressedthe growing problem ofhuman waste, statingthat sewerage and
sanitationinvestmentsshouldbe made on the basis of demand, Le., on the basis of local preferences and
willingness to pay.

                                             2


o f providing services on the basis o f demand and managingthem at the lowest appropriate
level.

 1.5    Also inline with the new policy framework, the Bank beganto focus on promoting
newpolicies inthree important ways by:

        (a) promoting private sector participation;
        (b) supporting Local Government Units (LGU) to deliver WSS services in
            accordance with their new mandate under the Code; and
        (c) promoting the role o f Government Finance Institutions (GFIs) as channels o f
            external and internal fundingto finance investments at the local level.

1.6     Underthis newpolicy framework, the government launched the privatization ofthe
operations o f Metro Manila's Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) in
1996, with the assistance o f the International Finance Corporation. Two concessionaires
were selected for the Eastern and Western parts of the city, respectivelythe Manila Water
Company Inc. and the Maynilad Water Services Inc. The concession agreements came into
force inAugust 1997.

1.7     The Bank provided financing to MWSSto support the initiation o f a Public
Performance Audit SysteminMetro Manila. Inaddition, the Bank also providedfinancing to
support investmentsby LGUs through Government Financial Institutions:

        (a) the Water Districts Development Project was approved inFY98 with two loans
            for implementationthrough the LandBank o f the Philippines (Land Bank) andthe
            Regulatory Office o f MWSS; and
        (b) the LGUUrbanWater and Sanitation Project2was approved inFY99 for
            implementation through the Development Bank o f the Philippines.

1.8     The underlying rationale ofthese operations was that the World Bank's financing of
strategic investmentsininstitutions and infrastructure for urban water supply and sanitation
would lay the basis for future investments insecondary cities andtowns. At the same time, it
would enable the government to develop and test cost-effective and financially sustainable
methods for improving urban sanitation as a public good because o f negligible private sector
interest inthis area.

1.9     This report examinesthe project performance o fthe Water Districts Development
Project.




2. APL 4422-PH. The ImplementationCompletionReportNo. 25718-PH was issuedon June 28,2004.

                                                3


2.      The Project

OBJECTIVES,COMPONENTSAND RESTRUCTURING

2.1     The objectives o fthe Water Districts Development Project (WDDP) were to assist the
Republic of the Philippines in:

        (a) creating an institutional environment to encourage the participationo fthe private
        sector inwater utilities; and
        (b) supporting the participating Local Government Units inimproving water,
        sewerage, sanitation and drainage within the areas o f theirjurisdiction.

This wording of objectives is based on the restructured LoanAgreements, since the original
loan agreements corresponding to the Staff Appraisal Report were never signed(see paras
2.6 and 2.7).

2.2     The WDDP consists oftwo loans, which corresponded broadlyto two project
components describedbelow:

Component 1:Public Performance Audit (PPA) -Loan 4227-PH

2.3     The PPA component-to        be implementedby MWSS-would             develop and pilot a
publicperformance audit systemto measure the performance o f concessionaires for water
and sewerage services, through the provision o f technical assistance. At appraisal, the
estimated cost was U$2.5 million, which was adjusted to US$2.3 million after project
restructuring. The actual component cost was US$2.0 million, or 11percent o f the actual
total project cost. After the component's completion in2001 under the project, the MWSS
continued to expand the PPA and renamed it as the Public Assessment o f Water Services
(PAWS).

Component 2: Sewerage, Sanitation, and Drainage Development (SSD) -Loan 4228-PH

2.4     The SSD component-to        be implementedby the LandBank o fthe Philippines-
would improve the water, sewerage, sanitation and drainage services inparticipatingLGUs
throughthe construction of:

        (a) water, sewerage and drainage systems inbarangays;
        (b) on-site and communal sanitation facilities for residents of such LGUs;
        (c) a sewerage system consisting o f house connections, feeder and trunk sewers;
        (d) a sewage treatment plant; and
        (e) drainage facilities.

A "barangay" is the smallest political unit into whichcities andmunicipalities inthe
Philippines are divided. It i s the basic unit of the Philippine political system, and consists o f

                                                       4


inhabitants residingwithin the territorial limit o f a city or municipality administered by a set
o f elective officials and headed by a barangay chairman3.

2.5       The SSD component would also strengthenthe capability o fthe Land Bank's Project
Management Office to support the participating LGUs inthe designo ftheir respective sub-
projects and to manage the overall project implementation through the provision o f
consultants' services.

2.6       Key Milestones. The WDDP was approved by the World Bank in September 1997.
The loan agreements were unsigned for 19months due to onset of the East Asian financial
crisis that coincided with the time o f loan approval. The crisis made the government and the
LGUsreluctant to commit to the projectprimarily because ofthe steep fall o fthe Philippine
peso4. The cross-effectiveness condition requiringboththe PPA and SSD loans to be signed
together, and the delay in starting the PPA implementation, also contributed to the overall
delay. As explained immediately below, the loans were restructured inMay 1999,two years
after the Board approval date, with no change inthe project objectives. The SSD loan
became effective inSeptember 1999, and the PPA loan inOctober 1999. The PPA loan
closed inaccord with the restructured schedule o f June 30,2003. For the SSD loan, the
restructured closing date o f June 30,2004 was extended twice-once to December 31,2005
and then to December 31,2006-in order to complete the implementation o f physical
investmentsinseveral LGUs.

2.7       Restructuring. The Board approved the restructuringo f the two loans inMay 1999.
Instead o f a new appraisal document, an Operational Manual and a new LoanAgreement
were prepared. This option was chosen becausethe preparation of a new Staff Appraisal
Reportwould not have allowed the May 15, 1999 deadline for loan signing that hadbeen set
by the Bank's regional management to be met. The ImplementationCompletion Report
(ICR) justifies this manner o f restructuring on the grounds that the development objectives
remained the same.

2.8       The restructuringprimarily affectedthe SSD Loan, while the PPA loan remained
largely intact. The SSD Loanwas shiftedaway from a project approach consisting o fpre-
identifiedprojects toward a programapproach where the designo f each sub-project
responded to specific demands from various LGUs. LGUs outside Metro Manila were made
eligible to participate rather than only the four pre-identified ones (including Davao,
Cotabato, Calamba, and Cagayan de Oro). The LGUs were also allowed to seek assistance
for preparation o f feasibility studies from the Project Management Office o fthe Land Bank.
An original provision to obtain technical assistancefrom the Local Water Utilities
Administration was dropped, after the focus was switched from the original four water
districts to an open menu for local governments.




3. Source:National Statistical Coordination Board, Government o f the Philippines.
4. It is important to notethat the EastAsian financial crisis affectedthe Bank's entire lending portfolio inthe
Philippines. All four loans approvedbetween 1997 and2000 were reducedin size by an aggregate 25 percent
and their closing dates were all extended.

                                                       5


2.9       The restructured SSD consisted oftrunk and feeder investments5 as follows:

          (a) capital-intensive trunk investments insewerage, drainage and wastewater
          treatment infrastructurebased on LGU priorities (Sewerage, US$10.6 million and
          Drainage, US$12 million); and
          (b) feeder investmentsinurgentenvironmentaland sanitation investmentprograms in
          barangays identifiedby LGUs (US$9 million).

2.10      SSD trunk investmentswere chosen through participation o f stakeholders, local
executives and the local legislature. To qualify for feeder investments,the barangayswere
required to prepare Barangay Environmental Sanitation Plans (BESPs) through a
participatory process involving non-governmental organizations (NGOs)and partner
organizations for sub-projects inwater supply, sanitation, neighborhood drains and solid
waste management. The LGUspecified the budget ceiling to be financed by the LandBank
loan and/or city equity along with cost-sharing arrangements between LGUand
communities. The SSD component's design and implementationwere guidedby beneficiary
surveys, as follows: (i)       Community Mapping to assess the type o f environmental sanitation
improvementsthat were requiredby households (piped WSS systems were identifiedas
priorities); (ii)   Willingness-to-Connect Surveys (60 percent o f respondents were willing to
connect to a piped water system and pay WSS tariffs computed to cover costs).

COST AND FINANCING
2.11      As shown inTable 1below, the overall project cost at completion was US$17.98
million, compared to US$80.7 million at appraisal, and US$38.6 million after restructuring.
At appraisal, the estimated total cost ofthe SSD component was US$78.2 million, butthis
was scaled down significantly to US$36.3 million upon project restructuring, and the actual
cost went down further to US$15.41 million, or 42 percent o fthe estimated costs for that
component at restructuring. The exchange rate fluctuations resulting from the Asian financial
crisis had a significant impact on project disbursement, with the Philippine Peso value o f the
restructured project being 69 percent o f the US Dollar value o f the restructured project.
Thus, the overallproject costs at completion were 22 percent o fthe appraisal estimates, and
47 percent o f costs estimated after restructuring. However, the Peso value o fthe final project
cost was as much as 69 percent o f the restructured loan, the remaining gap being due to three
LGUsnot availing o f subsidiary loans. At project completion, the distribution of costs
between trunk and feeder investmentswas 75 percent and 25 percent, respectively, and
between water supply and sanitation investments, 79 percent and 21percent, respectively.
Details are presentedinAnnex A.




5. Trunk investments include central and often capital-intensive facilities for sewerage, drainage and wastewater
treatment, while feeder investments include distribution systems and decentralized installations at the level o f
the local political unit, or the baranguy inthe case ofthis project.

                                                     6


Table 1 Changes in Project Costs (in US$ million)

 Component        At Appraisal          At Restructuring          At Completion
PPA                       2.5                     2.3                      1.97
SSD *                    78.2                    36.3                     15.41
Interest 8,
Other                                                                      0.60
Charges
Total                    80.7                    38.6                     17.98
       For the SSD component, the World Bank Loan at appraisal of US$54.5 million was reduced to US$36.3
      million at restructuring. Of this amount, successive cancellations were made totaling US$20.29million.
      Including the cancelled amount of US$0.33for the PPA component, the total cancellation from the two
      loans is US20.62 million equivalent.


IMPLEMENTATIONEXPERIENCE

2.12    PPA component. The Regulatory Office of the MWSS took responsibility for
implementing the overall PPA system. Initially, the PPA system was aimed at measuringthe
performance oftwo concessionaires inthe Easternand Western service areas of Metro
Manila, by developing andpiloting-under              this WDDP component-a           publicperformance
audit systemin50 barangays. The National Engineering Center of the University of the
Philippines designedand tested the audit methodology inorder to ensure transfer o fknow-
how, technology and expertise. The PPA pilot was completed successfully inJuly 2001. It
demonstrateda clear value-added ina situation where no such monitoring was being done
when operations were exclusively inthe public sector.

2.13    SSD component. The Land Bank of the Philippines (Land Bank) took responsibility
for implementing the SSD component. Initially, 50 LGUsexpressedpreliminary interest in
borrowing from the LandBank for atotal investment o f about Peso 1billion, which would
have fully utilizedthe restructured loan amount o f US$ 36.3 million. Subsequently,25 of
these LGUs were approvedby the Land Bank basedon borrowing capacity. Finally, ten
LGUssigned a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the LandBank, but four ofthem dropped
out beforeproject implementation. Thus only six LGUsavailed of subsidiary loans inthe
end. The four LGUs that droppedout at the last moment did so for various reasons including
the inability of amunicipal council to ratify the loan andthe perceived complexity of World
Bankprocurementprocedures.

KEYIMPLEMENTATIONPROBLEMS
2.14    One of the reasons for selectingthis project for an IEGassessment was to derive
lessons from the WDDP's experience intesting directedlending for local infrastructure
through government financial intermediaries. Several factors affected the SSD component
negatively, as discussed below.

2.15    The Bank identifiedseveralrisks during project appraisal and restructuring but
underestimatedthem significantly. First, it recognized that the LGUs could back out before
project implementation by failing to enter into a Subsidiary LoanAgreement. The 1999

                                              7


restructuring aimed to mitigate this risk by widening the pool o f LGUs, but the drop-out rate
became a serious issue nonetheless.

2.16    Second,when the conversionwas made from a project to a program approach during
restructuring, the lack o f LGUbuy-inor fully tested technical and institutional rules were
also recognized as a risk. However, accordingto the ICR, the program approach was
considered unavoidable because little time remained to execute loanagreements, and
government commitment was considered sufficient to counterbalance the institutional
capacity issues. Inreality, LGU commitment to environmental sanitation investments
remained weak, and there was low interest incapital-intensive infrastructure especially
following the 1997 financial crisis. The regional staff clarified subsequently that the program
approach was infact appropriate given the passing o f the local government code. Inline
withthe code, in 1996the government issueda policy that required LGUsto access loans for
additional infrastructure investments that they sought beyond their internal revenue
allotment. This LGUFinancing Framework was put inplacejust before the preparation o f
the PPA and SSD loans, which were the first two loans financed throughofficial
development assistance and passedon through Government Financial Institutions. It was
further clarified that these loans have ledto substantial improvement inaccess to finance for
LGUs; for example, the LandBank's LGUloanportfolio has risento 40 billionpesos in
2008.

2.17    Third,ina few reportedinstances, the short election cycle influenced the selection o f
the buranguys and ledto changes intechnically desirable butpolitically less popular sub-
projects. For example, the IEGmission was informed during a field visit in Cabanatuan that
a pre-electiondecision was made to postpone a planned sewerage treatment plant infavor o f
a bridge. The long processing lag times for demand-driven projects (see paras 2.19-2.20
below) were not well synchronized with the three-year mayoral term, which lessened the
interest o f incumbent mayors inundertaking WDDP subprojects. The added flexibility o f the
project was insufficient to counterbalance the weak response o f LGUsto the project. The
election cycle and short term o f LGUexecutives are factors that influence LGU lending
through financial intermediaries all over the world, and can be addressed by factoring in
significant changes betweeninterested and actual clients throughout project life.

2.18    Fourth, significant delays resulted from the participatory processes for subprojects
(comprising 25 percent o f actual total project cost) that required the submission o f Barangay
Environmental Sanitation Plans. This was inaddition to the time spent dealing with the
bureaucratic obstacles to obtaining the required environmental clearances and water
development permits. The long lag times between the LGU's initial expression o f intent and
project implementation start-up are shown inTable 2 below.

                                                       8


Table 2. ProcessingLag Times for Demand-DrivenProjects

                             Processing Step                                   ElapsedTime (in months)
                                                                                    Step             Cumulative
LGU submission of Letter of Intent
Signature of Subsidiary Loan Agreement                                                2                  .  2
Participatory assessment of stakeholder demand:                                    6 to 12               8 to 14
    (a) Signature of Willingness to Connect document *
    (b) Preparation of the Barangay Environmental
         and Sanitation Plan **
Application for required clearances and approvals (e.g.,                                                  11-20
     Environmental Compliance Certificate)                                          3 to 6
Bank pre-approval of procurement documents                                          2 to 3                13-23
Bidding phase                                                                       3 to 6                16-29
* This formalizes the LGU's participation in the project and specifies that it will pay the tariff, and form an
association or cooperative that will operate the project.
** This indicates how financing costs would be shared, the cost recovery mechanism, and the role of the project
operator.

2.19     Thus, the process of moving from project identification to procurement took almost
three years. Participatory demand assessmentalone accounted for almost one-thirdo f the
elapsed periodbefore actual on-site implementation could start. This resulted insubstantially
delayed loan disbursement, as well as higher commitment fees and increased project costs for
the LGU. The time required for participatory planning shouldbe built into the project so that
sub-borrowers understand that this will require additional time and financial intermediaries
factor the additional time required into their loan structure. Land Bank now offers two
separate loans-one for technical assistance and one for the sub-project-to                          ensure that
commitment costs are not factored inbefore the sub-project i s ready for implementation.

MONITORINGAND EVALUATION
2.20     Design. For the PPA component, the key monitoring indicators were all keyedto
outputs, namely, the developmento fpilot reporting formats for the audit; the issuance of
public audits insample barangays ofthe MWSS; and positive feedback from stakeholders on
the utility ofthe PPA (see also paras 4.5 to 4.7). These were appropriate indicators giventhe
pilot nature o fthe component, and should not be confused with the larger set o f indicators for
measuringthe performance o fwater utilities over the long term through the PAWS system
(thesuccessor to the PPA). For the latter, the MWSS developed a mix ofprimary and
intermediate outputs covering network quality and water quality at both the provider and
consumer levels (see Table 3 inthe "Efficacy" section below). The needfor outcome and
impact indicators relating to health was recognized, but not included inthis set o f indicators.
On the whole, this monitoring framework developed underthe PPA component i s considered
well-designed and as having made a strong beginningtowards eventually creating a
comprehensive results framework.

2.21     Inthe caseofthe SSD component, after itwas restructured andconverted from a
project to a program loan, the exact nature and quantities of investments andphysical outputs
were not definedor knowninadvance. The LGUproponents were required to provide

                                                9


information on baselines intheir applications, for which barangays conducted willingness-
to-pay studiesthat provided a baseline and design year target population against which to
monitor outputs at the end o fthe project. Usingproceeds from the successor loan, the Land
Bank has also established a monitoring and evaluation systemto improve the tracking o f its
LGUportfolio basedon implementation, budget use, environmental/social compliance
(where applicable), and other milestones.

2.22    Implementation. For the PPA component, the Regulatory Office of MWSS and the
National EngineeringCenter o f the University o f The Philippines usedthe results o f the pilot
phase to designthe subsequent and ongoing phases o f the audit program. The latest available
monitoringresults are presented inthe PAWS website. The future implementationstages and
the continuing expansion ofthe audit system's coverage are discussed under the "Efficacy"
section of this report. For the SSD component, with the exception o f one case, the indicators
agreed betweenthe Bank and the Land Bank in 1999 were definedonly ingeneral terms
without any specific targets. Therefore, there was no benchmark against whichto assess the
achievements under this component. Beneficiary consultationwas carried out after
implementation, and results showed that most respondents perceived an improvementintheir
quality o f life and environment. However, no details o fthe questionnaire, methodology and
sampling were available to put these results inperspective.

2.23    Utilization. After the PPA pilot component's completion in2001, the MWSS
gradually expanded coverage to the whole MWSS service area and included sanitation.
More importantly, the indicators were used by the eastern concessionaires, Manila Water
Company Incorporated, to design its own monitoring program. This allowed them to
monitor and improve performance inkey areas beingmonitored by MWSS. However, the
western concessionaire, Maynilad Water Services Incorporated(MWSI), did not utilize the
monitoring system to a similar extent. This was partly because it was affected more severely
by the Peso depreciation; it hadto operate almost 100-year old facilities; and its client base
came mainly from poorer social classes. Therefore, while it used some o f the indicators, it
considered the adoption of the whole audit system-calibrated to moderntechnology and
operational practices-as   inappropriate for its specific case and showed relatively less
commitment at the time o fproject implementationin2000/2001. InJanuary 2007, however,
the PPA reports onperformance monitoringprovedto be a useful tool inenablingMWSS to
successfully re-negotiate the western concession contract with Maynilad Water Services
Incorporated. It i s important to note that the MWSIconcession contract failed whenthe
concessionaire went bankruptand was only successfully re-awarded inearly 2007. It i s
largely because o f this that MWSS-RO has not been able to get MWSIto adopt the PPA as
quickly as MWCI.

2.24   The overall rating of the quality of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is modest.
Although the initial designwas satisfactory, the subsequent implementation and utilization
were inadequate. The Land Bank does not yet have a systeminplace to continue monitoring
sub-project performance after project completion. Inline with decentralization, the
responsibility for monitoring and reporting on sub-project outcomes rests with the LGUs.
However, there are insufficient budgets at that level to build capacity adequately.

                                               10


3.       Project Evaluation

RELEVANCE OFOBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
3.1     The project's objectives were and remainhighly relevant. The WDDP's
objectives responded closely to sector needs by helping to address the following key issues in
the WSS sector through the SSD component: (a) the deterioration of WSS levels due to
population growth inurban areas and its attendant negative environmental impact; (b) the
lack o f a policy framework and financing criteria; (c) poor incentives for commercial
operation o f existingentities; and (d) political interference insetting tariffs. By specifically
strengthening the MWSSthrough the PPA component, the project was also consistent with
the government's Medium-TermDevelopment Planandthe Bank Group's 2006-2008
Country Assistance Strategy, which sought to improve the enabling environment for private
sector development by strengtheningregulatory agencies and promoting private sector
finance o f infrastructure projects. The project also supported a participatory approach to
encourage greater transparency and accountability inlocal government decision-making, and
more reliance on government financial institutions for the channeling o f funds, which the
Bank also advocated.

3.2     The overall relevanceof projectdesign is ratedsubstantial. Taking the two
components separately, the design o f the PPA pilot component was highly relevant, since it
was developed as a complement to the MWSS privatization financed by the International
Finance Corporation. Buildingon the foundation laidby this pilot component, the PPA was
extended to other towns to increase the transparency o f WSS investment performance and
thereby promote private sector participation. IEG's review o fthe project documentation
showed that the Bank made significant efforts through workshops and seminars to explain
the PPA objectives and methodology to stakeholders.

3.3     However, there were shortcomings inthe designo f the SSD component. First,
although the responsibility for technical assistance lies with the LGUs as prescribed by the
local government code, there was a needto bridge the gap inLGU capacity as well as build
skills and understandingfor the innovative approach o f the lendingfacility, for which the
Land Bank established consulting resources. The Land Bank initially hiredtechnical
consultants and assigned Resident Engineers to field sites, but while this worked well for the
LGUs, it provedquite costly for the LandBank and didnot serve to develop capacity at the
LGUlevel. As a result the costs o fthe feasibility studieswere passedonto the LGUs.
Second, this resulted inless funds being available to the project itself, since LGUshad a
ceiling on the amount they could borrow, and 12 to14 percent o f the loan funds could be used
by the feasibility study alone. This amount could have fundedmore improved sanitation,
water connections or longer drainage lines.

3.4     The restructuringo fthe SSD component from project- to program-based lendingwas
seen as a much-needed design adjustment by the government and the Land Bank. It provided
more flexibility for procurement, disbursement, and supervision compared to project lending.
However, even after restructuring, the LGUswere still asked to finance any technical
assistance on their own or seek assistance from the Land Bank, which itself had limited

                                              11


technical capacity. Subsequently, the loan provisions were amended to allow use of sub-
loans for sub-project preparation and feasibility studies.

EFFICACY
Objective1: To create an institutional environmentwhich would encouragethe
participation of theprivate sector in water utilities. Efficacy is rated substantial.

3.5      Overall Assessment of the PPA Component. The pilot PPA component, which
pursuedthis first objective, encouraged private participation by introducing an audit system
for utility performance, thus initiating transparency, accountability and regular reporting on
the cost structure, technical operations and beneficiary outcomes for the WSS sector, for
which there was no established system prior to the project. As a pilot, the PPA was
administered to progressively largernumbers o f units, after an initial series o f testing and
redesign. As evidence o f its sustainability, the PPA system i s beingfollowed through in
successive phases until 2011/12. The PPA was piloted inconjunction with the IFC-financed
privatization o f two public water companies inthe Manila area. Thus, the Bank Group was
achieving important strides inthe WSS sector by privatizing water companies (IFC) while
integratingpilot performance audit systems (Bank). There i s some evidence that the PPA
process has contributed to increased confidence on the part o f other financers-Le.,     the Asian
Development Bank as well as Germanand Japanese official aid-to         approve successor
projects. This helpedlay the groundwork for reneweddonor coordination through regular
WSS financiers' consultative meetingsintendedto develop a sector strategy after having
beenshut out o f WSS lendingby the government for about a decade.

3.6      Output Indicators. The project documents were transparent inindicating that the PPA
component would pursue only output indicators, which was justified givenits pilot nature
andthe feasibility o fmeasuring sector-level outcomes only when a much larger geographic
coverage from the PAWS' successive phases (beyond this project) has beenachieved. The
PPA pilot component focused mainly on developing, testing and calibrating the survey
instruments, mapping out the logistics o f achieving sufficient geographic coverage during the
futureroll-outphases, and helpingthe MWSSRegulatory Office internalizethe audit
methodology. The full coverage o fthe Metro Manila Area (or the National Capital Region)
may take muchlonger than expected partly due to the elimination of LWUA's technical
assistance role when the project was restructured.

3.7     The original PPA pilot component's indicators and its performance interms o f
outputsare shown inTable 3 below.

                                                       12


Table 3. PPA Component Indicators and Outputs

Indicators                                              outputs
1. Developmentof pilot reportingformats, including      The PMF was completed by the project'sclosing
a PerformanceMeasurementFramework (PMF), an             date. The IMS is being scaled up under successor
InformationManagementSystem (IMS), and a Plan           operations.The PIDF is beingexpandedas part of
for Public Information Disclosureand Feedback           the ongoing phasesof the PAWS system that was
(PIDF)                                                  built around the PPA pilot.

2. Issuance of public audits in sample barangays of     Out of 1,697 barangays in the Philippines,100were
MWSS                                                    surveyedthrough the pilot audit. This first phase was
                                                        completed in 2001 under the project and renamed
                                                         PAWS. The PPA loan closed in 2003, when 420
                                                        additionalbarangays were surveyed in a second
                                                        phase. By 2006, a further 720were surveyed in the
                                                        third phase of the PAWS roll-out plan.All 1,697 are
                                                        plannedto be surveyed by 201112012.


3. Positive feedback on the utilityof the PPA from      Basedon a survey of 95 out of 100barangays that
MWSS and other stakeholders                             were surveyed underthe pilot audit, consumersand
                                                        concessionairesrated the overall audit quality as
                                                        good. MWSS organizes barangay road shows to
                                                        explain and discuss audit resultswith consumers.


Source:World Bank's ImplementationCompletionReportdated June 28, 2007 and the Land Bank of the
Philippines' ImplementationCompletionReport (Undated;filed in the IRIS system on May 9, 2007)


3.8       The PAWS website includes the latest composite ratings for the surveyed barangays
covering consumer-level and provider-level ratings, and combines them into an overall
performance rating on a five-point scale ranging from Very Good to Very Poor. The detailed
ratings are based on the parameters shown inTable 4 below. However, the website does not
yet provide quantitative details o f consumer-level and provider-level indicators, and does not
include an explanation o f the methodology used for arriving at the final overall rating.

Table 4. Consumer- and Provider-Level Elementary Indicators

                                  Consumer-LevelIndicators
Network Quality                       Water Quality                        Service Quality
Continuity of Supply                  Water Smell                          Responseto Water Interruptions
Interruptionof Supply                 Water Color                          Responseto Billing Complaints
Daytime Pressure Indicators           Sand and Foreign Bodies              Responseto Customer Inquiry
Nighttime PressureIndicator          Water Taste                           Responseto Service Complaints
                               Provider-Level Indicators
Network Quality                      Water Quality                         Service Quality
Continuity of Supply (24 hours)      Total ColiformContent                 Responseto Service Complaints
Risk of Contaminationdue to Low       Residual ChlorineConcentration      Responseto Billing Complaints
Pressure
Daytime Pressure Indicator           Fecal Coliform(Screener Indicator)   Responseto Requestsfor New
                                                                          Connections
                                                                                                             ~
Nighttime PressureIndicator                                               Responseto Main Failures
Source: RegulatoryOffice, MWSS, September 27, 2007 powerpoint presentation.

                                                        13


Objective2: Tosupport theparticipating LGUSin improving water,sewerage,sanitation
and drainage within the areas of theirjurisdiction. TheSSD component'sefficacy is rated
substantial.

3.9       For the SSD component, the indicators and corresponding outputs after project
restructuring are summarized inTable 5 below; the succeeding paragraphs provide more
details; and the field data are presented inAnnex B. Some consultations that were conducted
at the beneficiary level pointed to positive results butthere was no formal study to document
the project's outcomes.

Table 5. SSD Component Indicators and Outputs

IndicatorsAs RevisedAfter Restructuring        outputs
1. At least four LGUs outsidethe Metro Manila  Trunk subcomponent:four cities
Area should have successfully implemented
planned quality sanitation services in their   BESP subcomponent:two LGU loans supporting 15 barangays
communities.
2. Constructionof sewerageand feeder water     By project closing in December2006, the management,operationand
supply network outsourcedto privatesector or   maintenance of the operationalwater systems in 13 barangays were outsourced
water district.                                to a localWater UserAssociation or Cooperativein accordancewith a
                                               Memorandumof Agreement between the LGU and the Association or
                                               Cooperative. The constructionof sewerage and feeder supply networkswas
                                               outsourcedto the private sector.
3. A number of successorsanitationprojects     Six successorprojects are under implementation:three financed through Land
preparedand approved by the government.        Bank of the Philippines,one through the DevelopmentBank of the Philippines,
                                               and two directly by the government.Four of these receivedfinancingfrom the
                                               World Bank, one from the Asian DevelopmentBank, and one from the Japan
                                               Bank for InternationalCooperation.
Source: World Bank's Implementation Completion Report dated June 28, 2007 and the Land Bank of the
Philippines' Implementation Completion Report (Undated; filed in the IRIS system on May 9, 2007)

Although the indicators at restructuring were met or exceeded, the project was affected by
shortcomings that ledto decreases inLGUinterest. O fthe 50 LGUsthat originally expressed
interest to participate, 25 were approved based on their borrowing capacity, and 10 actually
signed Subsidiary LoanAgreements-of which 4 dropped out before project implementation.
While being fully cognizant o fthe risk aversion resultingfrom the East Asian financial crisis,
project-inducedconstraints also discouraged LGUparticipation. Significant problems were
caused by selecting the Land Bank as the implementingagency despite the lack o f a proven
track record inmanaging and providing technical assistanceto borrowers for WSS projects.
The participatory processes associated with the environmental impact assessment o f
sanitation caused much delay and contributed to the drop inLGU interest and increased
costs6,inpart due to the needto recruit private subproject designconsultants. While these
may beplentifulinthe National Capital Region, this i s not the case inoutlying provinces.

3.10      Trunk Investments. With respect to the first indicator, six LGUs (four o fwhich are
cities) had receivedloans by project completion. The project's achievement was higherthan
the target o ffinancing four LGUs. Inthe four cities that made trunk investments



6. The Borrower commented that while this is true, it is important to consider that the WDDP-SSD cannot
finance a stand-alone water supply system project. A sanitationcomponentis required to qualify for WDDP-
SSD financing.

                                             14


(Cabanatuan, San Fernando, Candon, and Calbayog), an estimated 261,000 people benefited
from improved drainage, which i s reported by respondents as having reduced exposure to
health hazards.

3.11    Feeder Investments. Two LGUs (Panabo City inDavao and the Province o f Palawan)
financed feeder infrastructureconsisting o f water supply, sanitation, micro-drain and solid
waste management sub-projects in 15 barangays. Specific outputs included the following:
sewage collectors (10,095 linear meters); communal septic tanks (40 units); toilet bowls
(2,056 units);individual septic tanks (400 units); and combined stoddrainage collection
pipeline (39,187 meters). Since households were not willing to connect to sewer systems if
they already had septic tanks, lower-cost options for septic tanks and combined
sewerage/drainage systems were constructed, along with purchase o f maintenance
equipment.

3.12    Inthe project's barangays,anadditional 3,500 households (representingabout 20,000
people) inpoor communities now have access to safe water, over 400 have on-site sanitation,
and over 1,650 more have access to communal sanitation facilities, all o f which were
expected to have a beneficial health impact. Sub-projects helpedimprove quality of life
among low-income barangays where pipedwater supply and sanitation was almost non-
existent. Beneficiary consultations carried out by Land Bank after implementationsuggested
that most respondentsperceived an improvement intheir quality o f life and environment.
Based on document reviews and field interviews,the IEGmission found that women
respondents have identifiedseveral benefits, including less time spent on chores, and greater
cleanliness. Beneficiaries show greater appreciation o f the need to contribute toward
operation and maintenance o fthe facilities.

3.13    The IEGdocument review and site visits to Davao and Cabanatuan also found the
close andproactive involvement o f LGUofficials. For example, for the above feeder
investments, Panabo City inDavao and the Province of Palawan identifiedlow-income peri-
urbanand rural barangays inwhich WSS investmentswere apriority. Local commitment
was verified through consultative methodsat the provincial, city, municipality and barangay
levels. Leadership training was providedfor the Project Management Units of Panabo City
andPalawanProvince.

EFFICIENCY
3.14    Overallproject efficiencywas modest. The many delays experienced by the project
resulted inlong lapses o f time before sub-project implementation could be started. On the
positive side, the PPA component was finished in2001, two years after the project's
restructuring inMay 1999, and two years ahead o f the formal closing date o f June 30,2003.
Itwas completed at a lower cost than the estimate done duringthe project's restructuring. For
the SSD component, water supply tariffs were based on willingness-to-pay estimates. Initial
investment costs were partly or fully covered by the LGUs and cost-sharing agreements were
worked out with Water User Associations and co-operatives. No economic internal rate o f
returnwas calculated for the project after its restructuringto aprogram-based loan, for which
investmentswere only knownex-post. Instead, a least-cost analysis was used, supported by
anidentification ofproject benefits based onthe willingness-to-pay o f LGUs and

                                              15


beneficiaries, to ensure that investments were not beyondthe capacity o f the barangay or the
local government.

3.15      Inthe specific caseofPalawan Province, the water supply investmentcost was almost
double compared to the `without-project' cost inPanabo City inDavao. This was due to the
use o f a power generator and the costlier development and filtration o f surface water
resources inPalawan. InPanabo itself, full cost recovery was not achieved, since Panabo was
able to remit only 40 percent o f the levels agreed with the city government. Inboth cases,
knowing that the barangayshad few alternatives, the Provincial and City Governments were
prepared to pay an initial subsidy for the investments with a view to eventually recovering
the costs.

3.16      Insome cases, loancommitment fees were passedonto LGUs, resultinginan
increase insub-project costs. (Although the passing-on o f commitment fees to the sub-
borrowers was a project flaw, it should be notedthat the approach o f buildingstakeholder
buy-inthrough willingness-to-pay surveys was the right approach, although the time ittook
to complete the participatory processes could have beenreduced.) Inother cases, political
considerations may have affected the choice o f barangays. The barangay participatory
model was untestedat project start-up, and was based on a demand-driven and bottom-up
approach to sub-project preparation that initselftook between six months and one year to
complete, thus slowing disbursements and increasing costs to the participating LGUs in
terms o f commitment fees.

OUTCOME

3.17      The Project Outcome ratingis moderately satisfactory,basedonproject sub-
ratings of substantial for relevance, substantial for efficacy, and modest for efficiency (taking
into account the much greater weight inproject costs o f the SSD component), as summarized
inTable 6 below.

Table 6. Project Outcome Based on the Achievement of Project Objectives

0bjectives                       Relevance     Efficacy          Efficiency       OUTCOME
1. Create an institutional
environment to encourage the

sector in water utilities
participation of the private     High          Substantial       Substantial


2. Support the participating
Local Government Units in
improving water, sewerage,
sanitation and drainage within
the areas of their jurisdiction Substantial    Substantial       Modest


Overall Outcome Rating          Substantial    Substantial       Modest           Moderately
                                                                                  Satisfactory

                                              16


RISKS TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
3.18     The future risksto development outcome are ratedmoderate. The PPA component is
expected to be sustainable, including its financing. Although the PPA surveys were initially
financed by MWSS, they were later cost-shared with the newprivate concessionaries in
preparationfor their inclusion inthe new user rates. The extension o f PAWS surveys outside
the Metro ManilaArea i s also likely to be included inthe Bank's proposed Local
Government Supportfor Provincial and Regional Water Supply Project, while the GEF
Manila Third Sewerage Project i s assisting with the expansion o fthe PPA instrumentto
include sanitation and sewerage. These projects are expected to ensure a stable source o f
financing for the Regulatory Office o f MWSS and the expansion o f indicators to cover
sanitation. The expansion o f PPA to Water Districts i s being considered under a proposed
project with the Local Water Utilities Administration. However, the slow dissemination o f
PPA results needs to be improvedas it has ledto low levels o f public transparency.

3.19     For drainage investments,LGUs are currently absorbing O&M costs without
resorting to any increases intaxes. Operating costs of feeder investmentsare the
responsibility o f Water User Associations or Co-operatives, and are currentlyfinanced by
tariffs agreed to by the community during the barangay process. However, these institutions
face rising energy costs, which are the major expense, and some are beingfinanced by grants
from LGUs. Though beneficiaries are said to appreciate the need to contribute towards
operation and maintenance costs, the seasonal nature o f local incomes pose a challenge to
revenue collectors.

3-20     Achievingsustainabilitywill require increasedcontributionsfrom taxes and/or
tariffs, which is hard to apply.A key challenge for LGUsis the efficient collection o fwater
fees that are sufficient to cover O&M expenses, service debt, meet other financial
commitments such as accruing some returnto the LGU. However, the results o f water
systems do vary considerably. Some schemes have been successful and are providing
lessons to Provincial or City Governments on how to expandaccess to services. Moreover,
business-as-usual would have probably yieldedless sustainable arrangements, with LGUs
subsidizing all maintenance and replacement costs, and barangays only collecting sufficient
fees to cover their operations. With respect to institutional capacity, limitations are much
higheroutside cities, and the arrangements for providing technical assistance on a continuing
basis are also not clear. Ingeneral, cities have the willingness, political interest and
resources to operate and maintain the systems satisfactorily. For barangay investments, there
i s limitedcapacity among private sector entities (Water User Associations and Cooperatives)
to collect revenues to sustainthe systems, and only limited resources are available to sub-
borrowers to provide necessary technical assistance. Inthe interim, LGUs are providing
subsidies, guidance and technical assistanceto barangay associations facing high operation
costs.

SAFEGUARDS
         (a) Fiduciary

3.21     The IEGmission interviews found that financial management arrangements were
satisfactory at the Land Bank head office and at its lendingand accounting centers. Early

                                             17


during implementation,however, some LGUs did not maintain separate project accounts.
This was resolvedby requiringLGUsto keep dedicated accounts with the Land Bank where
counterpart funds and sub-loan proceeds were deposited. However, the IEGmission field
visits found that financial management capacity at the LGUlevel still varies considerably,
and needs to be developed where it i s lacking,

         (b) Procurement

3.22    The participating LGUs were not familiar with Bankprocurement guidelines and
procedures, which caused delay and faulty documentation. Consequently, model bidding
documents were prepared for all LGUs and the first contract for works and goods were
reviewed for each LGU. All transactions were required to be reviewed and cleared by the
Bank, includingpublication o f bids. Consequently, all procurement documentation neededto
be sent to the Bank's country office at the LGUs' cost. At times, the lack o f technical
competence, experience and availability o f membersof the LGUs' Bids andAward
Committee-designed to evaluate technical proposals-proved        to be an issue. The Land
Bank informed the IEGmissionthat ithas upgradedits LGUlendingprocedures to take
these concerns into account. The Bank and the LandBank staff conducted joint fiduciary
reviews covering procurement and financial management. The Land Bank provided
assistance through workshops and seminars on selection o f consultants and bid evaluation.
For successor projects, the LandBank expects to be able to streamline its requirementsand
processes significantly given the agreement on harmonized procurement rules between the
government, the Bank and other development partners.

        (c) Social and Environmental

3-23    The project was classified as Category A for environmental safeguards. Underthe
WDDP, monthly and quarterly environment reports were required from the Land Bank and
the LGUs. The Land Bank's PMO was responsible for oversight, and an environmental
specialist and a social development specialist were recruited for that purpose. The IEG
mission's document reviews and interviews with the Land Bank and the Bank's project team
showed that the PMO satisfactorily coordinated compliance of all sub-projects with Bank
guidelines as well as national environmental rules and regulations. With respect to social
safeguards, a resettlement actionplan was preparedfor 13 project-affectedpersonsas a result
o f the drainage improvements inCalbayog City. A relocation site was allocated and
compensation paid by the City Government to the 13 persons. The IEGmission found that
the actionplanwas implementedsatisfactorily. No other subprojects requiredresettlement
actions.

BANKPERFORMANCE

3.24    Overall, the Bank's performance is rated moderately satisfactory,based on
moderately satisfactory quality at entry and supervision, as explained below.

3.25    The quality of the Bank's performanceat project entry is moderately
satisfactory. On the positive side, the Bank playeda critical role inassisting government in
developing its WSS sectoral policies over the years. The Bank did well inpersuadingthe

                                               18


government, the International Finance Corporation, and MWSS o fthe usefulness o f
launching a pilot PPA audit as a tool to promote private sector participation, and ensured
sound methodology at entry for the component. It made special efforts to ensure a successful
launch o f the audit through workshops and seminars on the methodology and objectives o f a
PPA system. The Bank also acted appropriately inrestructuringthe SSD component to a
program-based loanto provide flexibility inpreparing sub-projects. However, giventhe
Bank's management deadline o f May 15, 1999 for signingthe restructured loans after a
reappraisal mission inMarch 1999, the Bank team left itself too little time to assess the
uncertainties and practical implications o f launching a program loan at short notice. Thus it
could not be ensured that LGUs had sufficient capacity or provision for technical assistance
for implementingthe sub-projects. (The Regionclarified, however, that even ifthe project
team hadhad more time at restructuring, the program approach would not have changed the
fact that only when an LGUhas decided to take a loan from Land Bank could their capacity
to undertake the technical designbe assessed.)

3.26    The quality of Banksupervisionis moderately satisfactory. Boththe PPA and
SSD components were supervisedregularly and adequately. The SSD teams had the required
diversity of skills to addressthe complexity o f BESP projects. However, weaknesses in
capacity o f Water User Associations and Co-operatives were not well addressed. There were
also three changes inthe Task Team Leader for the project; however, the supervision
remained steady as the second and mainTTL was a team member from the start and also
duringICRpreparation. The last TL mainly oversaw the project closing and final stages of
the ICR.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE
3.27    Overall, the Borrower's Performance is rated moderately satisfactory, basedon a
moderately satisfactory performance for both the government and the implementingagencies
(MWSS and the Land Bank), as explained below.

3.28    The government's performance is moderately satisfactory. Onthe positive side, it
articulated its needs inthe sector effectively through the Water and Sanitation Sector Review
andthe National Water Crisis Act. Underthis newpolicy framework, government launched
the privatization of operations of MWSSwith the helpof International Finance Corporation,
and selected two concessionaires for Manila.

3.29    However, while government demonstrated commitment initially for the PPA, it did
not sustain the reforms necessary to achieve sector integration. An independentregulatory
body for the sector was not established. The government did try to assign the task o f
economic regulation outside o f Manila to the National Water Regulatory Board, which i s yet
to prove itself inthis regard. Two other issues that needed to be addressed were the clear
conflict o f interest within the Local Water Utilities Administration (being boththe financier
and regulator o f water districts); and the growing but unattended interest of LGUs in
engaging incontractual arrangements with the private sector.

3.30    The performance of the implementing agencies is rated moderately satisfactory.
MWSS showed strong commitment to the PPA, as evidenced by its efforts to integrate the
audit results into its monitoring system. At project start-up, it assignedstaff and recruited

                                              19


consultants from the Universitypromptly to assist with the audit. MWSS did not disseminate
the PPA audit findings adequately underthe project, althoughthis has improvedunder the
ongoing PAWS phases. MWSS received good cooperation from the Manila East
concessionaire, but less so from the one inManila West, which was uncommittedand
considered the audit as unfair (see para 2.25). However, usingthe PPA reports on
performance monitoring, MWSS was able to successfully re-negotiate the Western
Concession contract with Maynilad Water Services IncorporatedinJanuary 2007.

3.3 1    With respect to the SSD component, the Land Bank expanded its cumulative lending
to LGUs from Peso 11.9 billionto Peso 25 billion between 2000 to 2006. The LandBank's
performance with respect to fiduciary and financial aspects was satisfactory. However, the
Land Bank could not provide sufficient support to the LGUs. Moreover, the PMO o fthe
Land Bank performed inadequately incollecting and organizing information related to
project implementation and monitoring o f indicators. The Land Bank has learned from these
early lessons under WDDP and has built inmitigating measures inthe successor project,
Support for Strategic Local Development and InvestmentProject.


4.      Lessons Learned

4.1     As an operation intendedto test lending through government financial intermediaries,
the project laid the basis for increased on-lending for WSS investments;moreover, through
the lessons learned duringits implementation, the project ledto improvementsinthe capacity
of LGUsto provide WSS services withinthe framework o f government's decentralization
policy. More importantly, the WDDP introduced a demand-driveninvestment approach that
incorporates willingness-to-pay assessments, cost recovery and tariff analyses, as well as
prudent fiduciary management, procurement and environmentaland social safeguards. Since
the project's closing, the LGUshave financednew investmentsto sustain the benefits ofthe
initial subprojects, strengthened the capacity o f Water User Associations, and built-up O&M
capacity.

4.2     The follow-on Support for Strategic Local Development and InvestmentProject
approved inJune 2006 would continue to provide access by LGUsto financing for strategic
infrastructureinvestments that have beenidentified indevelopment plans or multi-year,
participatory planningexercises. Learning from WDDP's lessons, the follow-on project
would also provide assistanceto LGUs inthe following areas: (i)    the preparation o fterms of
reference for sub-project preparation work including feasibility studies and detailed
engineering design; (ii) procurement; (iii) supervision and management including monitoring
o f outcomes duringconstruction; and (iv) improvements inthe management and operations
o f municipal enterprises and services.

4.3     The PPA component deserves special mention. Despite setbacks with a wider roll-out
and dissemination weaknesses until2001when the pilot phase was completed, scale-up
efforts are ongoing. The Public Assessment o f Water Services (PAWS) system, which was
built uponthe PPA, is plannedinseveral more phases upto 2011 12, with the objectives of:
                                                                  -
(a) assisting the Regulatory Office o f MWSS indecision-making; (b) providingthe private

                                            20


concessionaires with operational and businessplanning information; and (c) increasing
public participation inthe assessment o f water services. The Regulatory Office o f MWSShas
agreed to incorporate the PPA costs inthe rate re-basing exercise, and to expand the audit
indicators to cover sanitation and sewerage inaddition to water supply. This signals a vote o f
confidence inthe PPA approach. The WDDP resultedinbuy-infrom the eastern private
concessionaire, and-through    the PPA reports on performance monitoring-has      enabled
MWSSto successfully re-negotiate the westernconcession contract inJanuary 2007. Inits
own ICR, the Borrower also indicatedthat the participation o f concessionaires i s essential for
developing and calculating reliable performance indicators, and the PPA performance
measurement system serves as a better baseline for privatization projects than traditional
engineering assessments.

4.4     The lessons derivedfrom WDDP's implementation experience, especially for WSS
operations that onlend through government financial intermediaries include the following:

        A suddenchange ina project's lendingapproach, when done under pressure oftight
       processing timetables and strong exogenous factors, works against effective project
       implementation.
        Issues stemmingfrom the local political economy needto be addressed at project
       entry because they strongly influence local ownership and the ease o f
       implementation.
       While well-intentioned and useful inbuildingclient ownership, participatory
       processes(usually associated with social and environmental safeguards) require
       substantial up-front time which needs to be built into implementation planning.
       Complex sub-projects such as private sector contracts for water supply or solid waste
       landfills require borrower expertise beyondprocurement and financial management.
       Thus, adequateprovisions should bemade for the significant technical assistance
       requirements o f local borrowers, including monitoring and reporting on subproject
       outcomes.

4.5    From a sectoral policy perspective, the WDDP has ledto a better understanding o fthe
potentials and limitations o f WSS lending through government financial intermediaries, as
well as the terms and conditions under which LGUscan benefit from on-lending facilities.
Through the WDDP's experience, the negative consequenceso f its failure to establish a
regulatory authority and a lead agency for the WSS sector have become much clearer to
government. This, inturn, has enhanced the Bank's ongoing reform dialogue with
government and facilitated the integration o f the lessons learned from WDDP into successor
operations.

                                                          21                                            Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

PHILIPPINES-WATERDISTRICTSDEVELOPMENTPROJECT
(P004576)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$ million) *
                                                        Appraisal             Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                        estimate          current estimate       appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                         80.7                 38.6                    48.0
Loan amount                                                 57.0                 38.6                    68.0
Cofinancing                                                   __                  --                        _ _
 Cancellation                                                 -_               20.62**                      -_
*See Table 1 inthe maintext of this report. The loan less the cancelled amount equalsthe disbursedamount o f US$17.98
million equivalent.
**Cancelledamounts are in terms of loan amount at appraisal.

CumulativeEstimatedand Actual Disbursements (amounts in US$million)
                      FY99        FYOO        FYOl         FY02       FY03       FY04        FY05     FY06       FY07
Annual                0.00     .  2.04         2.82         4.58        5.22      0.87        0.0      0.59       1.86
Cumulative            0.00        2.04         4.86         9.44      14.66      15.53       15.53    16.12      17.98


ProjectDates
                                                                 Original                          Actual
Begin Appraisal                                                                                   0211011997
Board approval                                                                                    09/09/1997
Signing                                                              __                           05115/1999
Effectiveness Loan, 4227-PH                                     09/10/1999                        10/08/1999
Effectiveness Loan, 4228-PH                                     0911011999                        09/10/1999
Closing for Loan, 4227-PH                                       06/30/2003                        06/30/2003
Closing for Loan, 4228-PH                                       06/30/2004                        12/31/2006

 Annex A                              22




  Stage of Project Cycle          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                          I   No. Staff Weeks         I         US$ (`000)        I
 Lending
          FY98                                                              194.80
          FY99                                                               0.43
                Total:                                                     195.23
 Supervision/lCR
          FY98                                                               5.73
I         FY99            I                           I                      0.00 I
          FYOO                                    26                        80.78
          FYOl                                    27                        67.85
          FY02                                    26                        72.92
          FY03                                    16                        37.81
          FY04                                    12                        43.75
          FY05                                    19                        70.89
          FY06                                    15                        39.30
          FY07                                     1                         5.96
I               Total:    1                      142  1                    413.53 I

                                               23                             Annex A


Mission Data
Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 No.          Date           Performance rating:            Performance rating:
         ISR Archived       Development Objective         lmplementation Progress

 1        05/08/1998              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
2         12111611998            Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
3         05/28/1999              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
4         1211511999              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
5         0611412000              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
6         12/26/2000              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
7         06/08/2001              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
8         12/20/2001              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
9         06/26/2002              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
10        1211212002              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
11        0511512003              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
12        1111712003              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
13        03/03/2004              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
14        0812012004              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
15        12/22/2004              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
16        06/22/2005              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
17        03/08/2006              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
18        06/25/2007              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory


Other Project Data
BorrowerIExecuting Agency:

FOLLOW-ON   OPERATIONS
                  Operation                      Loan no.   Amount           Board date
                                                          (US$ million)
Support for Strategic Local Development and      4833-PH      109            06/29/2006
Investment Project (S2LDIP)


                                             25                Annex B



Annex B. DETAILED OUTPUTS ONWATER SUPPLY,
SANITATION, SEWERAGE,AND DRAINAGE
SUBPROJECTS

Table 1- %`ater snpply sub-projects (BESPffeeder component)




I(d) Sta. Teresita I       236               1.180




a/ Householdsize is 5 persons to a household.
bi As of October 2006

Annex B                                       26



Table 2    - Sanitation,   sewerage, and drainage subprojects (Trunk and BESPcomponents)

Length of sewerage coIlectom and sewage treatment added to their .;?.stemsor no. of on-site
sanitation facilities installed




Abbreviatlous
T       - toiletfncllrtles
Sh      -Septicm&
SP      - sewagecolktionppelxne
STP        sewage treatmentplant
CSP     -- combined(stomC drainage) collection prpelme
un      -numberofw t s
Lhf     -lineaslwterg

                                                      27                                  Annex C


Annex C. Borrower Comments

     L@,qbE.,&&pJf4; {)F 'ri.."I.:p ;y,        il ,__        $2p#pJ $
     Official Depository Bank of the Republicof the Philippines

 08 May 2009

 MS. MONIKA HUPP
 The World Bank
 Manager, Sector EvaluationDivision
 Independent EvaluationGroup
 1818 H. Street,M.W.,Washington D.C. 20433
 USA

      Attention       : Mr. Fernando Manibog

      Subject         : Comments onthe WDDP DraftPerformanceAssessment Report
                           Loan No.: 4228-PH

 Dear Ms. Hupp:

 We acknowledge the receiptof your letter as regardsthe draft performanceassessment
 reportfor the Water DistrictsDevelopment Project (WDDP).

 Below are our comments on the said report:

 1. On Page "VJ" first paragraph

   The WDDP-SSD Loan No is 422.8-PH not4229-PH.

 2. On Page"&second paragraph

   "...Sanitation Plan investments caused much delay and contributed to the drop in
   LGU interest and increasedcosts, in part due to the need to recruit private subproject
   design consultantswhich Land Bank couldneither provide nor finance.''

   Comment:

   The statement "Land Bank could neither provide nor finance" should be deleted since
   it is inappropriateto associate the delays and drop in LGU interest to LBP inability to
   provide or finance the services. It is clearly defined in the operational manual of the
   WDDP program that the sub-borrower (or It's consultant) is not tasked to providethe
   sewices for the preparation of BESP. However, the consultancy service for project
   preparation (which includes BESP) is part of the eligible componentslexpenditures
   that can be funded by WDDP. The role of Land Bank in extending assistance is
   exercised by the PMO of WDDP which has been dearly acknowledge in Section2.6
   of the PPAR          -  "The LGUs were also allowed to seek (technical) assistance for

     LAND BANK OFTHE PHILIPPINES
     LANDBANK PLAZA
     159RM H del Pilar cor Dr J Qulntos Streets
     Maldte. 100.1Mdiiila Ptrlllppliirs
     lei NO5 522.00-00 ' 551-2200 ' 450-7001
     www landbank corn                               I

Annex C                                                 28




           preparation of feasibilty studies from the Project Management Office of the Land
           Bank". Hence, the drop in LGU interest may be attributed to the invease in project
           cost as a result of (a) contracting consultancy services in order to satisfy the
           participatoryprocessthat the BESP requires and (b) stand alone water supply system
           project is not eligible for financing under WDDP-SSD (to be eligible for financing
           under WDDP-SSD,a sanitationcomponentmust be includedin the project).

        3. On Page"xi"and Page "19'

           Delete "Sustainable" in the following statement: Support for Sustainable Local
           Developmentand InvestmentProjectand replaceit with the word "Strategic".

        4. On Page " 4 ,Section2.8

           "   ... All LGUs were made eligible to participate rather than only the four pre-identified
           ones (includingDavao,Cotabato,Calamba,and Cagayan de Oro."

           Comment:

           Only LGUs outside Metro Manilais eligible to participatein the WDDP-SSD.

        5. On Page"S,Section2.10

           ' I .,.The SSD component's design and implementation were guided by beneficiary
           surveys, as follows: (i)Community Mapping to assess the type of environmental
           sanitation improvementsthat were requiredby households(pipedWSS systems were
           identifiedas priorities); (ii)Willingness-to-ConnectSurveys (60 percent of respondents
           were willing to connect to a piped water system and pay WSS tariffs computed to
           cover costs."

           Comment:

           Water Supply System project is not eligible for financing under the SSD trunk
           investments and therefore, the statement stated above is more appropriate to be
           included in paragraph2.11.

        6. On Page"7,Section2.19

           "Fourth,Land Bankwas not fully equippedto fill the technical assistancerequirements
           of LGU sub-projects,which proved more extensive than anticipatedoriginally......The
          weak or absent technical support led to the lack of reliable subproject cost estimates,
          which in turn resulted in the scaling back or phasingof sub-projectsjust to match net
           borrowingcapacity limits."




                                                      2

                                          29                                               Annex C




   Comment:

   The statement made about LBP did not clarify the specific areas that needs to be
   substantiatedor equippedthat can satisfythetechnical requirementsof the LGU.

   It may also be inappropriateto mention the LBP's lack of technical expertise because
   part of the WDDP program is the contracting of project implementation support
   consultant (C.LOlTI & ASSOCIATTI) that is fully staffed with the expertise in the
   areas of WSS. The involvement of such experts had even undergone World Banks
   concurrence.

   Contrary to the assessment in the PPAR, the organizational adjustments made by
   LBP did not reduce the bank`s interaction with the sub-borrower because each
   project's has       an   assigned Account       Officer    aside  from    the   regular
   supervisionlmonitoring by the WDDP-PMO. In addition, the engagement of resident
   engineer's by the LBP-PMO in the subproject areas has ensured the timely
   interventionsof projectrelatedconcerns.

   It is very clear in the subsidiary loan agreement behveen the LGU and LBP that the
   necessary provisions to achieve the program objectives including the timely
   completion of the project shall be observed. Under normal conditions it is the
   contractual obligation of the LGU Contractor or LGU Consultant to ensure that the
   project is implemented according to industry accepted standards and the agreed
  engineering plans. The substance and form of the pre-implementation documents
  composed of the FS (including project cost estimates), DED, EIA, etc. have
  undergone PMO's intervention to ensure that the corresponding country standards
  and bank guidelinesare met.

   It is inappropriateto state and associate the lack of reliable subprojectcost estimates
  which resulted to the scaling back (or phasing) of subproject with the net borrowing
  capacity limits because the subproject`s basically undenvent appraisal by the LBP
  lending centers. The appraisal includes the acceptability of the cost estimates of the
   materials and services according to the current market prices or indexes. As regards
  the issue of net borrowingcapacity, the cost of the projectto be funded shall be within
  the net debt service ceiling. In certain circumstancesthe scaling back of the project
   may be necessary in order to comply with the limiiations on the net borrowing
   capacily of the LGU Code. As such, there is no linkage between the net borrowing
   capacity limits and the cost estimates.

7. On Page "7', Section2.20

  "Fiftb, significant delays resulted from the participatory processes for subprojects
  (comprising 25 percent of actual total project cost) that required the submission of
   Barangay EnvironmentalSanitationPlans beforefeasibility studies can be prepared."

Annex C                                             30




          Comment:

          There is no need to submit a feasibility study if a Barangay EnvironmentalSanitation
          Plan (BESP) had been submitted by the LGU. The technical as well as the financial
          viability of the projectwere discussedin the BESP.

        8. On Page "13, Section3.9

          "The participatory processes associatedwith the environmentalimpact assessmentof
          sanitation caused much delay and contributed to the drop in LGU interest and
          increased costs, in part due to the need to recruit private subproject design
          consultants.While these may be plentifulin the National Capital Region,this is not the
          case in outlying provinces."

          Comment:

           It is true that participatory processes associated with the environmental impact
          assessment of sanitation caused much delay and contributed to the drop in LGU
           interest.We also have to considerthat the WDDP-SSD can not finance a stand alone
          water supplysystem project. It must havea sanitationcomponentto be able to qualify
          for financingunderWDDP-SSD.

        Hope that you find the above in order

        Thank you


        Very truly yours,



