Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6933z-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
December 1, 1987
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Jamaican Dollar (J$)
J$1.00          =   US$0.1818
US$1.00         =   J$5.50
ABBREVIATIONS
ARI'          Administrative Reform Program
CAST          College of Arts, Science and Technology
CXC           Caribbean Examination Council
EDCC          Estate Development Commission
GOJ           Government of Jamaica
HEART         Humar. Employment and Resource Training Trust
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
OAS           Organization of American States
MOE           Ministry of Education
PCR           Project Completion Report
PIOJ          Planning Institute of Jamaica
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
SLB           Students' Loan Bureau
SLF           Students' Loan Fund
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNESCO        United Nations, Eduicational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
UWI           University of the West indies
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
September 1 - June 30



FOR OFFCL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA  ...c.***¢*.***..................**.....**.....     i
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......... ..............                       it
I.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR ... ................                          1
The Education Sector - An Overview ..............., .........     1
Selected Issues in Education ..............................       1
Educational Financing .....................................       4
The Government's Objectives and Policies in the Sector ....       5
Bank Strategy and Past Assistance to the Sector ...........       7
II.  THE PROJECT ..................... ........................         8
Background ................................................       a
Project Objectives and Scope ..........       ..................  8
Rationale for Bank Involvement ................ ...........       9
Project Components .............................,........         9
Upgrading and Consolidation of All-age Schools ........        9
Studies ........*........................................    10
In-service Teacher and Staff Training ................. .     11
The Student Loan Program ......... . .  ................................ .   11
Project Costs and Financing ......... . . ................................ .   13
Project Implementation ...................... -.............    14
Procurement .................................                    15
Disbursement ..****......................................    15
Accounting, Auditing, and Evaluation .....      .................  16
Project Benefits and Risks ................................   16
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......       ..............    17
ANNEXES
ANNEX It       COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
ANNEX II:      GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION, PY 1986-87
ANNEX IIIs     STUDENTS' LOAN BUREAU
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in December
1985 consisting of Messrs. A. Cespedes (mission leader), J. St. Germain and
B. Dahlborg, and post-appraisal by Messrs. D. Holsinger (mission leader),
W. Hobbs and B. Jump (consultants), March and July 1987.
This document ha a rstficted distribution and may be used by rcpients onl in th, perfonnance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without World lank authordion.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEX IVs     LOAN REPAYMENT COLLECTION SCHEDULE
ANNEX V:      COLLECTION STRATEGIES
ANNEX VI:     ALL AGE SCHOOLSs PHYSICAL FACILITIES
ANNEX VIlt    STUDIES TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
ANNEX VIIIs   INSERVICE TRAINING PROGRAM
ANNEX IX:     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND FELLOWSHIPS
ANNEX Xs      COMPUTING EQUIPMENT REQUJIREMENTS
ANNEX XI:     SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
ANNEX XII:    FINANCING OF PROJECTS COSTS AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
ANNEX XIIIs   PROJECT ORGANIZATION
ANNEX XIV:    IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ANNEX XV:     PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
ANNEX XVI:    LIMITS ON TYPE OF PROCUREMENT
ANNEX XVII:   AUDITING EXPERIENCE UNDER LOAN 2070-JM
ANNEX XVIIIt  MONITORING INDICATORS
ANNEX XIX:    COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEES
ANNEX XXs     SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
MAP           IBRD 20446
-  I



- i -
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:                                      Data      Year
1. Population Estimate (Million)                             2.2      1984
2. Population Projection (Million)                           2.7      2000
3. GNP Per Capita (US$)                                      940      1985
4. Average Annual GNP Growth Rate (X)                        -0.4     1984
. Urban Population as Z of Total                              53      1984
6. Literacy Rate (X)                                          90      1984
7. Area ('000 Sq. Km2)                                        11      1986
8. Population Density (Per Km2 of Agricultural Land)         200      1985
B. EDUCATION DATA:
1. Preschool Enrollment Rate (2)                              25      1985
2. Primary Education Enrollment Rate (Z)                      98      1985
3. Secondary Education Enrollment Rate (Z)                    81      1985
4. Higher Education Enrollment Rate (Z)                        8      1985
5. Public Education Expenditures as Share of
Total Fiscal Expenditures (Z)                           11       1986
6. Preprimary and Primary Expenditures to
Total Education Expenditures (X)                        34       1986
7. Secondary Expenditure to Total Education
Expenditures (Z)                                         7      1986
8. Higher Education Expenditure to Total
Education Expenditures (2)                             15       1986
SOURCE: World Development Report, 1986
Economic Social Survey of Jamaica, 1986
Mission Estimates



/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(4a
'7CIII



JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STODWNT LOAN PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers              Government of Jamaica
Beneficiatiess        Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Students' Loan
Bureau (SLB). The Borrower would transfer about
US$2.6 million of the Bank loan proceeds to the SLB
as a grant, enabling the SLB to extend loans to
qualified students at institutions of higher
education.
Amount:                US$8.3 million equivalent
Temst                  Repayment in 17 years, including a four-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Project Objectives
and DescriPtions    The project wills  (i) assist the Government to
prepare and evaluate options for a basic education
rehabilitation and development program, with
particular emphasis on grades 7-9, adapted to the
country's educational, economic, and budget
realities; and (ii) strengthen the Goverrument's
student loan program for nigher education.
The project includes: (a) a comprehensive technical
assistance package, including about 164 staff-months
of specialist services and about 191 staff-months of
fellowships to strengthen selected units of the MOE
and to support studies underpinning program and
institutional development in the areas of secondary
school reform, student loans, school administration,
community participation, particularly in school
maintenance, and reduction of unit costs in public
education; (b) in-service training of teachers,
supervisors, and MOE management staff; (c) a pilot
project for consolidation of about 20 small all-age
schools (grades 1-9) into larger, more cost-efficient
units (together with the provision of 40 new
classrooms) and incorporation of students in grades
7-9 in those schools into the regular system;
(d) funds to expand the students' loan program for
higher education to enable low- and middle-income
students to continue with their education, together
with necessary institutional development including
strengthening of the management of the SLB; and
(e) computing equipment for the SLB and the MOE
Planning Office.



- 1iii-
Benefits
and Risks:    (i)   The proposed project would assist the Government to
design an education rehabilitation and development
program, aimed primarily at the first nine grades,
especially grades 7 through 9, in order to improve
the system's performance and prodmctivity, without
major increases in budgetary allocations. It would
also help increase the MOE's planning, managerial,
and operational capabilities. In addition,
assistance for strengthening the student loan program
would support the Government's plans to increase cost
recovery and improve equity in higher education.
(ii)  The essential risk is that the strategy to be
embodied in the work program prepared under the
project may not be adopted, and that the strategy for
student loan repayment may not be enforced. The
project has been realistically designed to minimize
th>ese risks. The Government has a strong commitment
to introduce improvements in the sector. The project
is part of the medium-term development strategy
agreed with the Bank and the pilot demonstration and
studies should assist the Government to prepare a
high qualitv education investment program to be
financed from both domestic and international
sources. In addition, project covenants and progress
indicators have been designed to give signals in case
program objectives and government actions diverge,
and an active supervision plan will be followed.
Project Costs by Category:
CUS$ Million Equivalent1
Local        Foreign        Total
1.  Tec)mical AssistancelStudies
(i) Foreign Consultants                   0.1           0.7          0.8
(ii) Local Consultants                     0.2           0.1          0.3
(iii) Fellowships                           0.0           0.6          0.6
2.  In-service Staff Trainain               0.1           0.0           0.1
3. School Construction and Renovationt
(i) New construction                      1.9           1.3          3.2
(ii) Renovation                            0.4           0.2          0.6
4. Furniture and Equipment
li) Furniture and Equipment               0.1           0.2          0.3
(ii) Computing Equipment                   0.0           0.1          0.1
5.  Students' Loan Program EzUansion        3.5           0.0           3.5
Total Base Cost              6.3          3.2           9.5
Physical Contingencies              0.3           0.3          0.6
Subtotal             6.6           3.5          10.1



- iv -
Proiect Costs a Categor:s  (continued)
US$ Million Equivalentl
Local        Foreign       Total
Price Contingencies              0.5          0.5          1.0
Total Project Cost              7.0          4.1         11.1
1/ Net of import duties and taxes which are negligible.
US$ Million Equivalent
Financing Plant               Local       Foreign        Total          X
Bank                       4.2          4.1          8.3           752
Government                 2.8          0.0          2.8           252
Total                 7.0           4.1         11.1          1002
US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursement Pl    Batak FYs                FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual                                  1.6     3.1      2.8      0.8
Cumulative                              1.6     4.7     7.5       8.3
Economic Rate
of Return:   Not applicable
Map:-   IBRD 20446



fRq
XI *
1[



JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
The Education System - An Overview
1.1      Jamaica possesses a broadly based public education system. The
nine-year basic education program comprises over kalf-a-million students,
taught by 14,000 teachers in 900 schools (1983-84). Private insLitutions
figure only marginally in the formal sector at all levels. Education is
free and compulsory up to 11 years of age. Because of this and an
automatic promotion policy, access and retention ratios are high.
Enrollment rates for females are about equal to those of males. Net
enrollments in primary education (grades 1-6) and in lower secondary
education (grades 7-9) are currently 97Z and 921, respectively, of the
corresponding age groups. Two-thirds of the students enrolled in basic
education (grades 1-9) are at the primary level (347,000 students), and the
rest (16X,000 students) are at the lower secondary level. Students
enrolled at the latter level are separated into two groupst (i) those
attending the substandard "all-age' schools, where the nine grades are
combined, and who, as they leave school, generally become part of the
unskilled labor force; and (ii) those in the junior cycle (grades 7-9) of
the regular secondary school system (grades 7-11/13), who receive higher
quality education in more adequate facilities. Higher education is
provided in the University of the West Indies (UWI), the College of Arts,
Sciences and Technology (CAST), and in several other colleges, including
teachers' colleges. These institutions enrolled about 102 of the relevant
age group in 1984.
Selected Issues in Education
1.2      Basic Education.  High enrollment rates at the basic education
level have been maintained in substantial measure at the expense of inputs
needed to improve the quality of the system (i.e., educational research,
curriculum development, textbooks, in-service teacher training, student
evaluation, and school supervision) and to maintain existing infra-
structure. Management deficiencies have adversely affected the system's
internal efficiency and overall productivity. Furthermore, the Ministry of
Education (MOE) has not escaped the Jamaican Government's financial
limitations, the severity of which has increased sharply in recent years.
In view of the declining resource base, the MOE must make changes in its
current policies that will increase efficiency in order to attain
educational objectives within the limits set by financial resources.



-2-
1.3      Poor quality and basic inequities in the system are the main
issues wlich require attention by the MOE. These problems are reflected
in: (i) low student achievement levels; (ii) iniadequate and deteriorating
physical facilities; (iii) low effectiveness of education administration,
planning, and financial management; and (iv) shortage of resources.
1.4      Low Student Achievement.  Although there are no systematic test
data concerning student achievement in Jamaica, the MOE estimates that
about half of those who finish the nine-year basic education cycle in the
all-age schools (para. 1.1) fail to acquire fundamental literacy and
numeracy, and virtually all (about 70,000 currently) are poorly educated.
This situation is attributed by the MOE staff to interrelated deficiencies
in at least three areas: (a) curriculum; (b) the examination system; and
(c) a lack of systematic in-service teacher training.
1.5      Curricula.  Curriculum improvements made in the 1970s and early
1980s have concentrated on the production and distribution of syllabi for
grades 1-6. However, the basic education curriculum for grades 7-9 also
needs improvements, in particular for the all-age schools. At present, the
system is polarized: secondary schools catering to the majority of grade
7-9 students have a curriculum focused on an elite group of students aiming
to continue into university, while the needs of those for whom basic
education is terminal are largely neglected. For the latter group of
students (primarily those in all-age schools), the curriculum is
inadequate, representing in effect a remedial primary education dispensed
by poorly trained and motivated teachetvs. This problem is compounded by
deficiencies in textbook production and distribution, although recent
provision of textbooks to schools under bilateral agency financing has
somewhat reduced the size of the rroblem.
1.6      Examinations.  The examination system, despite recent improve-
ments requires further changes. Jamaican education has benefitted from
the establishment of the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC), the agency
responsible for replacing foreign examinations in the Caribbean with
regionally specific examinations. But the system remains deficient in the
following respects: (a) various types of examinations are given at
different levels, resulting in a lack of uniform standards; (b) external
examinations are aimed only at selecting students for higher education
studies, neglecting the job-seekers; and (c) the new CXC does not
adequately cover the common core subjects now being planned for inclusion
in the basic education curriculum.
1.7      In-Service Teacher Training.  The absence of an effective
program for in-service teacher training adversely affects the entire
system. Support to teachers in instructional and other pedagogical methods
is weak because of the inadequate number of school supervisors. An
increase in the numbers of supervisors cannot take place under present
budgetary constraints, so alternative solutions need to be devised. There
is, within the MOE, no unit in charge of planning, coordinating, and
implementing a comprehensive teacher training program which utilizes, in a
coordinated fashion, the existing teacher training colleges for in-service
training purposes. Teachers who have been employed for more than five
years need to have their knowledge and skills updated and be made aware of
current trends and new technologies in education.



- 3 -
1.8      Inadequate an' Deteriorating Physical Facilities.  Despite efforts
made over the last two decades and supported by the Bank (Loans 468-JM and
727-JM) and other agencies (USAID and IDB), a significant proportion of the
stock of physical facilities is still inadequate, and in need of expansion
and upgrading. More importantly, maintenance of facilities is poor, and
furniture is seldom repaired. One cause of this situation is the low level
of community participation in school affairs and the corresponding lack of
mobilization of community support to help maintain school facilities and
property.
1.9      Low Effectiveness of Education Administration and Management.  The
basic education system is currently managed at two leve.ls: at the natiovial
level, by the MOE, and at the local level, by school boards. At the
national level, there is inadequate coordination amonag the various units of
the MOE, and between the MOE and other ministries and agencies that
implement training programs (i.e., the Ministries of Labor, Youth and
Community Development, and HEART).1 In additior., key functions, such as
educational planning, educational research, andi school administration, need
strengthening. At the local level, the principal need is to review and
correct deficiencies in the school board system (e.g., in the management of
grant funds allocated by the MOE). Because of budgetary constraints, in
July 1985, the MOE closed four regional education units which had some
limited intermediary administrative functions at the regional level. There
may be merit in considering reopening some of these units and reassessing
their role, to allow the MOE to delegate at the regional level some of its
administrative functions (e.g., selecting and appointing teachers,
processing pay documentation, and supervising schools) in order to improve
system efficiency; this, however, would need further investigation.
1.10     MOE staff need in-service training to upgrade their skills.  Some
senior officers in the MOE have not had specific training in education
management. Specialists in the main education technical areas are rare,
and technical support is provided on an ad hoc basis (e.g., by temporary
groups or comr..ittees working on the preparation of limited in-service
teacher training programs). Recruitment of qualified MOE staff, as well as
teachers, is hampered by low salaries paid to public servants and by a lack
of comprehensive personnel management policies extending over, inter alia,
recruitment standards, induction tr, -ning, promotion rules, and salary
scales related to the level of training. Some of these issues (e.g.,
compensation strategy) are being addressed by the Administrative Reform
project supported by the Bank (Loan 2473-JM). Further development of cost-
effective approaches to in-service training is required both for MOE staff
and teacbers (para. 1.7).
1/ HEART (the Human Employment and Resource Training Trust), which was
established in 1982 as the major entity for skills training, is financed
by a 3% payroll levy on large- and medium-sized private firms (i.e.,
those that have a payroll of more thaa about J$7,200 per month).



-4-
Educational Financing
1.11     Shortage of Financia' Resources.  In 1985/86, 7.6X of Jamaica's
GDP was devoted to education, one of .he highest percentages among
countries in the region. However, as a result of Jamaica's severe economic
difficulties over the past few years, budgetary allocations to education
and training have become increasingly constrained. The share of the public
budget (including debt service) devoted to education and training has been
-7duced over the past five years, from about 202 to less than 12Z
(Annex II).  Even with the planned increase in public sector investment in
Aucation over the next three years, necessary qualitative improvements and
expansion of coverage in basic education will have to be obtained primarily
by more efficient management of available resources and to a lesser extent
by increasing private resource inputs. This can be achieved by: (i)
improving management by the MOE and the school boards; (ii) reducing school
administrative costs through consolidation of small all-age schools (those
with fewer than 200 student places) into more efficient school sizes (those
with 400-600 student places); (iii) devising a viable school maintenance
system drawing more on community support; and (iv) strengthening cost-
recovery measures, especially in higher education. Improvements in the
MOE's financial management are being introduced under the Bank-assisted
Second Technical Assistance Project of 1985 (Loan 2507-JM). Savings in
school administration are to be achieved through: (i) consolidation of
small all-age schools; and (ii) the formation of local community groups to
provide support for school maintenance. A unit cost study would shed light
on the scope for cost savings through reduction or elimination of various
subsidies. In addition, a study is needed on the potential scope for
various cost-recovery measures and their implications for equity,
efficiency and future operations of the student loan program.
1.12     Increased Need for Student Loans (Annex III) and Improved Loan
Recovery. As important steps to deal with its financial constraints, the
Government, beginning with the 1986-87 academic year, eliminated boarding
grants for all tertiary institutions (formerly J$750 per student per year)
and recently introduced fees to be paid by students who pursue higher
education. Jamaicans who attend the UWI campus in Jamaica now pay fees of
about US$364.00 annually. (Proceeds of these fees assist the Government to
shift a portion of the cost of operating its colleges and universities from
the Public Treasury to students and their families who can afford to pay).
Those unable to finance tuition and other costs from their own resources
are eligible for loans which allow them to repay on a deferred basis upon
completion of their studies. A limited number of academic scholarships are
also available on a competitive basis. Although the fees were to have been
introduced gradually, with annual increments of lOX up to about one-third
of the economic costs of a UWI education and maintained constant in real
terms, political pressure has slowed thv. full introduction. At present,
total charges to students represent about 15Z of recurrent costs, still one
of the highest shares among Commonwealth countries.
1.13     For more than a decade, Jamaica has operated an educational credit
program. However, the program has a poor record of loan recovery and
insufficient capital to meet forecast demand. An expanded student loan
program in Jamaica is central to gaining public acceptance of the
Government's decisions to terminate boarding grants and to introduce fees.
An expanded loan program would also help reduce the net burden to the
Government of achieving and maintaining an appropriate level of higher



education. Eq,ually important, given likely financing needs, will be steps
to improve cotlections performance on outstanding as well as new loans.
Loan amounts vary by institution attended and family income. Eligibility
is determined by need and satisfactory progress toward educational
objectives. Repayment follows graduation and a three month grace period.
Students have up to 9 years to repay (time varies according to loan amount)
at a 12? nominal interest rate, increased from 6? in 1985. The Planning
Institute o: Jamaica (PIOJ) estimates that nearly three-fourths of the
students at UWI and the CAST (as opposed to about one-fourth until now) may
require student loans to cover at least part of their tuition and other
expenses. The SLB is not in a position to respond to this sharply
increased need for loans without a substantial increase in lending
resources and comprehensive institutional improvements. These would
include a better socio-economic data base on the clientele who will be
requesting loans, in light of the new cost-recovery measures introduced by
the Government (e.g., social origin of students, potential for paying fees,
aid improved security arrangements to be introduced).
1.14     During its FY85-86 fiscal year (April 1, 1985-March 31, 1986), the
SLB made 2,230 loans, totalling J$5.1 million (about US$0.9 million
equivalent): 1,018 of these loans were to students attending UWI, and 610
to students of CAST; most of the remainder were to students of teachers'
colleges. As of March 31, 1985, the SLB's loan portfolio, including
capitalized interest of J$6.9 million, totalled J$36.4 million. At the
same date, principal and interest payments in arrears amounted to J$6.7
million (or 22.7? of total principal outstanding, excluding capitalized
interest). Of some 15,650 loans in the repayment stage, 6,423 accounts (or
411) were in arrears. At the request of the Bank, a long-standing policy
permitting the SLB to recover from the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) accounts
in arrears for over 90 days was abolished at the end of 1986 in an attempt
to increase the efficiency of the SLB.
1.15     In recent years, the SLB's ratio of collections to loans and
interest due has been runring at 40? or less. But with the reorganization
of SLB and the appointment in late 1986 of a new Executive Director, the
Government has launched a far more vigorous and effective co1lection
effort. SLB has introduced new procedural guidelines for loan appraisal,
disbursement and collections. The new SLB management has pressed debtors
and their guarantors much more forcefully by making greater use of a wide
range of aggressive collections strategies, -including legal remedies (e.g.
court ordered payment, suit for breach of contract). The new admin-
istrative team made improvements of the SLB's collection performance a
first priority, and accordingly implemented a set of procedures for this
purpose. Recent collections illustrate the fruits of this new emphasis.
Collections throughout the first six months of 1987 averaged about 30t
above the corresponding level of the preceding year. This trend has
continued through September 1987.
The Government's Oblectives and Policies in the Sector
1.16      The impact of public sector fiscal deficits in recent years has
been felt strongly in the education sector, with a decline in MOE
expenditures of 28t in real terms since FY83-84. Faced with this
curtailment in budgetary allocations, the MOE took several important and
delicate steps to contain expenditures. In FY85-86, it closed one teacher



-6-
training college, froze new admissions to all teacher training insti-
tutions, eliminated grants for the purchase of school uniforms and for
financial assistance to students, and cut expenditures for several non-
formal education programs. In addition, the Government recently adopted a
policy to begin charging fees in public tertiary institutions (para. 1.12).
Unfortunately, along with these essential reductions, certain quality-
enhancing inputs (such as provision of textbooks) have also been
drastically curtailed by the MOE, which needs to find ways (and the
capacity) to reverse such measures. In light of the above constraints, the
Government has reviewed its policy objectives in the sector, putting
priority emphasis on: (a) improving the internal efficiency and quality of
basic education; (b) increasing cost-effectiveness of the vocational
training system; and (c) improving effectiveness and efficiency in
education management, together with 'ppropriate cost-recovery measures,
particularly in higher education.
1.17     Social development emerged as a top government priority in 1987
and a major initiative to this end has been taking shape over this year.
While this initiative is not yet fully defined, the main thrusts can be
outlined, particularly in respect to education. The Government's
initiative seeks major improvements at the pre-primary (3-6 year-olds),
primary (7-12 year-olds) and lower secondary (13-15 year olds) levels. An
ongoing program to assist early school leavers in securing productive
employment (the HEART Program) would also be substantially expanded. In
respect of primary and lower secondary -- the core of the education reforms
being developed -- the central objective is to correct for the vast
differences existing in the kind, quality, and duration of schooling
available to individuals, depending largely on the type of primary school
attended in the early years. For those enrolled in substandard schools and
programs, major changes are also proposed in provision of textbooks,
educational materials and rehabilitation of physical facilities.
1.18     The Government is also aware of the need for increased overall
efficiency in the sector, and in particular, more effective loan
administration on the part of SLB. The Government wishes to strengthen the
SLB to reduce its claims on fiscal resources. Towards this end, at the
request of the Bank, consultants made recommendations in 1986 to improve
SLB organizational efficiency, management and economic performance. These
recommendations are now being implemented (a new organizational structure
was introduced in September 1986; a computerization program has been
designed); government subsidies are being phased out; and a range of
collections strategies, including legislative, regulatory and legal action,
are being planned and implemented.
1.19     The SLB has made a firm commitment to improve collections.
Collections targets, to be adjusted periodically, have been introduced for
the first time (see Annex IV).  Officers are ass'gned regions and
collections targets. Measures have also been taken under the name of
"moral suasion". After collection attempts have proved unsuccessful, names
of delinquents are now published in the local newspapers, along with their
current employment situation. Credit bureaus are advised of borrowers'
status. In addition, legal measures are being adopted to ensure that
beneficiaries who are able to pay do so (Annex V).



- 7 -
Bank Strategy and Past Assistance to the Sector
1.20     To achieve its educational objectives, the Government requested
Bank assistance to help prepare and evaluate options for a sector
rehabilitation and development program aimed primarily at tasic education
and attuned to fiscal realities.  In addition, Government has requested
assistance to strengthen the student loan program for higher education.
1.21     The Bank has supported three education projects in Jamaica:  Loan
468-JM (US$9.5 million, Project Completion Report of March 4, 1975); Loan
727-JM (US$13.5 million, Project Completion Report of June 30, 1981); and
Loan 2070-JM (US$6.8 million, extended to June 30, 1988). The first two
projects provided assistance for the development of secondary education
(junior and comprehensive schools) and tertiary education institutions
(i.e., Teacher Training Colleges, Industrial Training Centers, CAST, and
the Jamaica School of Agriculture). Enrollments in these institutions
eventually exceeded the initial plans by 15Z to 302. Both projects
encountered some implementation difficulties, related to occasional
shortages of counterpart funds and change of key personnel. According to
the Project Completion Report (PCR), Loan 727-JM experienced a 2002 time
overrun, due to changes in Government and its educational policies, staff
shortages in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), staff turnover at the
MOE, and lack of counterpart funds. Nevertheless, all project objectives
were evaluated as fulfilled or partially met, and all physical components
were completed by the Closing Date of the Loan. Loan 468-JM also
encountered implementation difficulties, as well as a 54Z cost overrun.
However, all new construction and facility expansion components were
undertaken as planned and were judged in the PCR to be of generally
satisfactory quality.
1.22     The Third Education Project, which is being implemented, continues
some of the actions initiated for CAST under the first two projects. It
also includes: (a) upgrading and expansion of a vocational teacher
training center; (b) technical assistance and funds for curriculum and
learning materials development in primary education; and (c) development of
skills training centers for out-of-school youth. The project, n)w more
than 902 completed, is expected to be fully implemented by June 1988.
Extension of the original Closing Date by two years to June 1988 became
necessary due to bankruptcy of two project building contractors, to a
change of site of one training center and to some delay with equipment
procurement. Apart from these delays, the project has been progresPing
satisfactorily. In addition to direct lending in the education se.tor,
Bank projects in other sectors have supported educational development.
Selected improvements in management are being achieved through the
Government's Administrative Reform Program (ARP), assisted by the Bank and
directed at improving the effectiveness of the Jamaican civil service (Loan
2423-JM, of 1984); and the Bank's Second Technical Assistance Project (Loan
2507-JM, of 1985). The MOE is one of three ministries selected to undergo
study and possible restructuring under the ARP. The ARP will focus on
decentralizing of personnel functions, installing a performance budgeting
system, and restructuring the Ministry along program management lines.
Under the Second Technical Assistance Project, assistance will be extended
to the MOE to review the role of school boards in the educational system



and to improve further the Ministry's financial management. The proposed
project has been designed to complement the actions undertaken under ARP
and the Second Technical Assistance Project.
1.23     In recognition that students, in particul.r those from lower
income levels, require a solid basic education in order to take advantage
of further educational or employment opportunities, and in view of the
deteriorating conditions in education during a difficult economic and
financial period, the Bank's strategy seeks to develop cost-effective
measures for qualitative improvement of basic education. Future Bank
strategy in the sector will draw heavily on the results of the proposed
project in the context of the Government's broader strategy for reform and
rehabilitation in the social sectors. In contribution to that initiative,
potential areas for future Bank support are the further rationalization and
consolidation of secondary education (either as preparation for further
education or for entry to job training or employment opportunities);
support for development of primary education in lower-income districts; and
assistance for post-secondary education that would be financed by a
combination of increased cost-recovery and targeted subsidies for capable
students from poorer families. Bank operations will also be designed to
complement assistance from other donor agencies currently focused in the
following areas:  (a) IDB - improvement and expansion of primary education
(US$45.8 million); (b) OAS - education guidance and related personnel
training (US$64.0 thousand); (c) USAID and German Government - primary
textbook project (US$8.3 million); (d) USAID - basic skills training for
secondary education (US$12.5 thousand); and (e) Italian Government -
machine tool training (US$1.4 million).
0
II. THE PROJECT
Background
2.1      The proposed project was identified by Bank staff who visited
Jamaica in November 1984 and in April 1985; prepared by the Government with
UNESCO assistance in June 1985; and appraised in July and, following severe
deterioration of Jamaica's economic and financial situation, in December
1985. The student loan component was appraised somewhat later, following
the Government's request for support and the introduction of higher
education fees in 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington from
November 17 to November 19, 1987. The Jamaican delegation was headed by
Mr. H. W. Milner, Financial Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives and Scope
2.2      The Government's strategy during these last years has emphasized
economic and fiscal adjustment to restore the basis for a return to
sustained economic growth. These adjustments have entailed social costs.
The proposed project aims at alleviating the impact on lower-income groups,
by adjusting overall education policies, with particular attention to the
all-age schools attended mainly by low-income and rural pupils, and by
targetting student loans for higher education to the poorer segments of the
population. The fundamental purpose of the project is to assist the
Government to prepare and evaluate options for an education rehabilitation



- 9 -
and development program adapted to the country's educational, economic, and
budget realities. In the face of tight financial constraints, the project
is aimed primarily at the first nine grades, with major emphasis on grades
7-9. The project will assist also in program and institutional
development, preparing the way for increased efficiency and cost-effective
performance of the education system. In addition, it has a student loan
component designed to provide support for the Government's cost-recovery
policy in post-secondary education.
2.3      To assist in the formulation of strategies to enhance cost
effectiveness and to improve the quality of basic education, focussing in
particular on the severe problems of education in the all-age schools, the
project will finance: (i) experimentation with, and the testing on a pilot
basis of, alternatives for long-term physical facilities planning and
consolidation alternatives for all-age schools; and (ii) the execution of
broader studies in the areas of school administration and school
mairtenance, prospective reforms of secondary education, and unit costs in
education. To improve the technical capacity within the MOE, so as to more
effectively prepare, implement, and evaluate educational changes, the
project will finance a well-balanced training and fellowship program for
research and planning staff, and provide computer support to the planning
unit of the MOE. In addition, to assist the Government in its policy
decisions concerning cost-recovery, the project will assist an expanded
students' loan program, with institutional improvements to the SLB, in
order to ensure continued access to higher education for lower- and middle-
income students.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.4      The World Bank has taken a lead role in assisting the Government
of Jamaica to formulate and implement an economic adjustment and recovery
program. It should now help the Government mitigate the social cost of
adjustment and develop human resources as required to sustain Jamaica's
medium to long-term economic viability. The project would make an
important contribution by assisting in formulation of economically sound
strategies in the education sector.
Project Components
Upgrading and Consolidation of All-age Schools (Annex VI)
2.5.     This component aims to implement on a pilot scale an alternative
to the uneconomic and socially inequitable situation of the immediate post-
primary grades, 7-9. It will provide the basis for savings in school
administration through experimentation with consolidation of all-age
schools. Popular support would also be increased by standardizing the
secondary curriculum, so that all children moving from primary schooling to
grade 7 would receive roughly equivalent instruction in similar physical
settings. An ancillary objective would be to reduce the importance of, and
the need for, the common, post-primary entrance examination. In like
manner, the need for the all-age school, as a receptacle for children who
fail to secure one of the 9,000 seats in the 46 prestigious high schools,
would be reduced. Several options permitting the Government to gain



- 10 -
experience with alternative arrangements, prior to embarking upon
islandwide reform, have been discussed with the MOE and would be supported
by the proposed project. These include upgrading and amalgamating existing
small all-age schools; integrating children from all-age schools into
regular secondary schools; or creating separate lower secondary schools.
These options would be implemented, tested, and evaluated in one Parish
(St. Thomas) and in two schools in Kingston's suburbs. From this
experience one option will be selected to serve as the basis for a
countrywide program. The pilot program would require refurbishing (i.e.,
painting, partitioning open spaces, repairing roofs and windows, and adding
new sanitary facilities) in about 15 of the 20 experimental schools.
2.6      To facilitate this pilot program for the all-age schools, the
project would also provida for the construction and equipping of about 40
new classrooms (1,700 student places, including science facilities), the
cost estimates and precise locations of which have been determined on the
basis of a school mapping exercise carried out by the Government, with
UNDP/UNESCO/USAID financing. All new sites have been chosen and purchased
by the Government. Maintenance of school buildings will be provided
through school maintenance committees which the Government agreed at
negotiations to establish by December 1988. These committees would
consist of representatives of parents, faculty, and the student body and
the school principal. Such committees would survey the status of
maintenance of schools, and identify and support steps to carry out the
additional maintenance.
Studies (Annex VII)
2.7      This component would include studies and related technical
assistance for guiding future development of the education sector. The
studies to be carried out include: (i) a study to complement the MOE study
on decentralization under the Administrative Reform Program (para. 1.23).
This study would focus on personnel and organizational requirements for
improved school administration at the local level; in addition, it would
explore, in connection with the pilot program (para. 2.5), ways to improve
maintenance of the school network, focusing, inter alia, on achieving more
active participation of local communities; (ii) a feasibility study of the
secondary school level reform, with emphasis on a unified lower cycle;
(iii) a study to determine unit costs, components of costs, and financing
of costs of secondary and higher education, both publicly and privately
provided; and (iv) a study to assess higher education students family
incomes and expenditures on instruction and boarding, to strengthen the
bases for cost-recovery policies under the students' loan program, and to
determine, more accurately, the needs for increased student loans and
appropriate loan terms. Technical assistance (Annex IX) financed under the
proposed project would support 49 staff-months of specialist services to
advise and assist MOE staff in carrying out studies. In addition, a small
amount of specialist assistance would be provided to help analyze the data
being generated by the school mapping exercise carried out by the MOE with
external financing from other sources (para. 2.6). Terms of reference for
the studies and consultants, including qualifications and employment
conditions, have been prepared by the MOE's planning unit and the SLB with
the cooperation of the Technical Assistance Division of the Planning
Institute of Jamaica, and in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. These
were reviewed by the Bank at negotiations and are satisfactory.



- 11 -
2.8      During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that it
would inform the Bank, by June 30, 1990, of the initial findings of the
studies under MOE, and present to the Bank for review, by December 31,
1990, a basic education development plan and investment program which would
take into account the conclusions and alternatives proposed in the studies.
The plan would cover. (i) Jamaica's current educational needs and
priorities at this level; (ii) alternative policy actions, and their
estimated costs, to meet such priority needs; and (iii) those policy
actions preferred on the basis of cost-effectiveness and educational
criteria. With respect to the study on student loans, the Government will
present to the Bank a plan for implementation of the recommendations by
June 30, 1989.
In-service Teacher and Staff Traiiiing (Annex VIII)
2.9      Under the project, in-service teacher training would be developed
following a new model that comprises a set of short-term seminars (1-3 days
each) to be organized over a two-year period. This scheme constitutes a
substantial change from the traditional extended courses (4-6 weeks each)
occasionally organized during summer vacations. These courses have proved
inefficient and unpopular. Under the new approach, used with good results
in other countries, each seminar would give participants opportunities to
develop skills or teaching techniques in 3 to 4 areas, such as pedagogy,
utilization of textbooks, student evaluation practices, and community
resources for school activities, including maintenance of the school plant.
Prior to introducing the new courses, teacher trainers for the program
would be trained by the School of Education of the UWI. The proposed
project would finance trainees' allowances and training materials and
equipment for about 450 staff (teachers, school principals and vice
principals, supervisors, teacher trainers, and selected staff from the
MOE). The proposed project would also finance the construction of one
small in-service teacher training center (some 150 M2). It would be built
as an addition to an existing school located in an area where there are no
teacher training installations, and would serve the training program
discussed above.
2.10     The training program also includes some 191 staff-months of
fellowships for field studies and training of staff abroad (including
education and school management staff and other MOE officers) in critical
areas such as education planning, statistics and information management,
evaluation and testing, teacher education, and financial management. The
Planning Unit of the MOE would be further strengthened through the
provision of a microcomputer to start a data base information system for
edueation statistics, together with training of operators in the use of
appropriate software. Procedures related to the use of fellowships by
government officers and teachers were reviewed at negotiations and are
acceptable to the Bank.
The Student Loan Program
2.11     The number and size of student loans for higher education,
especially at UWI and CAST, will have to be increased to assure continued
access to higher education by lower- and middle-income students. For the
purpose of the proposed project, the increase in the student loans



- 12 -
requirement has been conservatively estimated at a total of about J$33
million or US$6 million equivalent, with the following distributiont
US$0.55 million in 1986/87, US$2.00 million in 1987/88, and US$3.45 million
in 1988/89. (Detailed results of alternative projection scenarios are
contained in working papers in the Project file.) As it is difficult to
predict accurately the impact on enrollments of the introduction of tuition
fees, the proposed project would provide US$3.5 million, covering the
expected needs of academic years 1986/87 and 1987/88, and about 30? of the
needs of academic year 1988/89. During this period, a study will be
undertaken to more accurately assess student loan assistance requirements
and appropriate terms for beneficiaries (para. 2.7).  The Government would
transfer to the SLB, as a grant, about US$2.6 million of proposed loan
proceeds, to enable the SLB to expand its loan program.
2.12     Major institutional changes and improvements within the SLB (para.
1.15) were achieved during the process of loan preparation. During
negotiations agreement was reached on implementing an Action Program with
respect to (a) on-lending terms and condition-; and (b) loan administration
and recovery. The major points of the agreement are presented in the
following two paragraphs.
2.13     On-Lending Terms and Conditions.
(a) Interest rates would, at a minimum, remain positive in real
terms and would tend, over the long run, to cover the normal
costs of operations.
(b) The SLB would not modify the terms and conditions without
prior consultations with the Bank.
(c) The SLB would provide to the Bank annually by September 30 of
each year written estimates of the operating costs (capital
and recurrent) of the fund including the costs of
subsidization, administration and non-performing loans.
(d) Based on (c) there would be an annual review no later than
November 30 of each year of eligibility criteria and interest
rates.
2.14          Loan Administration and Recovery
(a) The SLB willt (i) retain the services of a collection agency
working on a commission basis; and (ii) write off old/
difficult accounts (i.e., more than five years of age since
becoming due and for which the balance owed has not changed
in the past five years) and remove these accounts and related
interest from the "receivables" category of SLB balance
sheets.
(b) The Government will prepare alternative proposals to
introduce legislation or administrative actions which would
assure that individuals wishing to emigrate have repaid their
student loan obligations or have made satisfactory
arrangements to do so.



- 13 -
(c) The Government will prepare alternative proposals to
introduce legislation or adttinistrative action mandating
salary deductions from loan beneficiaries in the civil
service and requiring non-government employers (or pr$"ate
banks in the case of the self-employed) to withhold payments
from salaries (or attach bank accounts) of individuals who
refuse to negotiate satisfactory repayment terms with the
SLB.
(d) The Government will provide to the Bank not later than
April 30, 1989 a comprehensive written program to improve
loan recovery, including specific proposals contained in (a),
(b), and (c) above and will promptly thereafter put this
program into effect.
The terms and conditions for students' loans, and the program for loan
administration and recovery for the first year, were reviewed by the Bank
at negotiations and were found satisfactory.
Project Costs and Financing
2.15     The total cost of the proposed project (net of taxes) is estimated
at J$61.1 million, or about US$11.1 million equivalent, of which US$4.0
million equivalent would be in foreign exchange (362). The baseline costs
estimated at appraisal for goods and services are adjusted to July 1987
prices. Cost estimates for civil works are based on costs provided by the
Ministry of Construction on recent comparable structures. Equipment and
furniture costs are based on costs of new laboratories recently equipped.
Costs of technical assistance are assessed on tne basis of actual costs of
similar projects financed by UNDP and the USAID. Physical contingencies
(not including Students' Loan Funds) would amount to 10 of total base
cost. Price contingencies (not including Students' Loan Funds) for local
and foreign costs are based on estimated annual inflation rates for all
costs of 12 in FY88 through FY90 and 3.52 for FY91. These contingencies
are estimated in US dollars equivalent, on the assumption that variations
in the exchange rate would compensate for the difference between local and
international rates of inflation. Given the emphasis in this project on
program preparation and student loans -- technical assistance, studies,
consolidation of schools and loans for selected students in higher
education -- incremental recurrent costs are not significant. The details
regarding the costs, financing and disbursement of the proposed Bank loan
are presented in Annexes VII - XII. In addition, a detailed preparation
document exists in Project Files.
2.16     The proposed Bank loan of US$8.3 million would finance 752 of
total project costs, or 1002 of foreign exchange costs and approximately
612 of local costs. A 752/252 cost sharing between the Bank and Jamaica,
including local cost financing by the Bank, is necessary considering the
general fiscal situation of the Jamaican Government. It would permit
successful implementation of the project, particularly of its pilot
components, and would enable the MOE to &iaintain adequate staffing of the
key units in charge of project implementation. Jamaican counterpart
funding requirements of the project would be met by the Government.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
2.17     Responsibility for the coordination of overall project
implementation would be vested in an existing project implementation unit
(PIU) in the Projects, Construction and Maintenance Division in the MOE
(Annex XIII).  This Division has performed well for the Third Project,
under implementation (Loan 2070-JM). The Division director would delegate
to a full-time PIU coordinator full responsibility for the implementation
of the project. The PIU coordinator would be assisted by a full-time
educator, as well as other staff (Annex XIII). The PIU would be supported
by a technical level Advisory Committee, chaired by the Director of
Projects, MOE, and comprising, among others, one representative each from
the Secondary Education Directorates, and the Evaluation and Planning Units
of the MOE. The Advisory Committee would provide assistal2e as needed in
carrying out all education aspects of the proposed project. An inter-
agency Review Committee, chaired by the Permanent Secretary of Education
and with high-level representatives from the Ministry of Finance and the
Planning Institute of Jamaica, uill take lead responsibility for the
preparation of the Government's secondary school reform program and assure
that the recommendations stemming from the four project studies are
reflected in that program (Annex XIX). The SLB, depending from the
Ministry of Finance, would be primarily responsible for implementing the
project's student loan component. During negotiations agreement was
reached that the PIU Coordinator and Educator wc'ld be appointed and the
Advisory Committee and the Review Committee would be established by loan
effectiveness. Specialist services including those for studies, training
and trainee placement will be managed directly by a contractor(s) (selected
from competitive offers in a manner agreeable to ihe Bank). The contractor
will report in all matters to the PIU coordinator,
2.18     The project's civil works component would be implemented mainly by
the Estate Development Commission (EDCO), a construction agency under the
Ministry of Construction. Satisfactory contractual arrangements between
the MOE and EDCO for implementation of the physical aspects of the proposed
project have been approved in draft and submitted to the Minister of
Education and the Attorney General for signing. At negotiations agreement
was reached that these contractual arrangements would be satisfactorily
completed prior to loan effectiveness. EDCO would design and prepare
tender documents, advertise for and evaluate tenders, and supervise
construction. EDCO, with MOE assistance, has already prepared a detailed
inventory of facilities at each of the existing schools in the proposed
project. It has fully assessed their needs for expansion and/or renovation
and for supplemental furniture and equipment. Realistic cost estimates
have been made on the above and for the designs, construction, furnishing
and equipping of the proposed new classrooms. The new classrooms would be
constructed on the basis of standard classroom designs prepared by the MOE.
Preparation of furniture and equipment lists and specifications would be
the responsibility of the MOE division concerned with these items. The
School Operations Division of the MOE would manage the execution of the
project's school administration study, and the Planning Unit of MOE the
unit costs and, with SLB, the student loan studies.
2.19     The Bank loan proceeds pertaining to the project's student loan
component would be transferred by the Government to the SLB as a grant
under a subsidiary agreement which would ensure both parties' compliance



- 15 -
with that program's objectives. At negotiations it was agreed that their
signing of an agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
loan effectiveness. The proposed project is expected to be completed in
about three and one half years, by June 30, 1991 (Annex XIV).
Procurement
2.20     Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in the
tables presented as Annexes XV and XVI. Contracting of civil works
(totalling about US$4.8 million) would be carried out under local
competitive bidding procedures (LCB), which are acceptable to the Bank.
Civil works contracts for the building of schools are not expected to be of
sufficient value to attract foreign contractors. Small school buildings
for individual schools would be grouped into sufficiently large packages to
assure economies of scale and attract better qualified contractors.
Furniture, totalling only about US$200,000 and,procured over a period of
about two years, would be procured through LCB procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. To the extent possible, all computer systems and
other complex or large equipmcnt would be grouped for bulk procurement and
would be awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for other equipment, library books and instructional materials,
not exceeding US$50,000 each would be procured through LCB procedures which
are acceptab,le to the Bank; such procurement would not in aggregate exceed
US$100,000. Miscellaneous items that cannot be grouped into packages
exceeding US$20,000 would be procured through local shopping and, in
aggregate, would not exceed US$50,000. Prior Bank review would be required
only for contracts exceeding US$100,000. Other contracts and bid
-avaluations would be subject to random ex post review by Bank staff during
supervision missions. Contracts for technical a5sistance would be awarded
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursement
2.21     The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed over 4 years.  This
would be faster than the average for loans in the education sector (9
years), as the proposed operation would be essentially a project
preparation/technical assistance loan and its disbursement period would be
in line with those of other technical assistance loans. The Bank loan
would financet (a) 402 of the costs of civil works; (b) 100Z of foreign
expenditures, and 802 of local expenditures, for furniture and equipment,
including installation costs where applicable; (c) 100X of expenditures for
consultants' services and fellowships; and (d) 752 of local expenditures
for student loans. Individual disbursements with a value of up to
US$100,000 equivalent each against civil works, fellowships, student loans
and contracts for furniture and equipment would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Related documents would be retained by the MOE
and SLB and would be made available for Bank staff review. All other
expenditures would be fully documented. A Special Account in US dollars
would be opened at the Bank of Jamaica, with an initial deposit of
US$750,000. The account would co-er the disbursement needs for
approximately four months of project expenditures. Retroactive financing
will be permissible for approved expenditures for payments made after
September 1, 1986 up to an amount not exceeding US$860,000.



- 16 -
Accounting, Auditing, and Evaluation
2.22     Deficiencies have existed in the record keeping and internal
auditing Rrocedures, both at the MOE and at the school board level. Such
deficiencies were noted in the audit reports related to the Bank's Third
Education Project (Loan 2070-JM; a summary of the auditing results on this
loan is given in Annex XVII). There is need for the Government to improve
the MOE's record keeping and internal auditing procedures. Technical
assistance to improve the MOE's financial m.' gement has been included in
the Bank's Second Technical Assistance Project  (Loan 2507-JM, para. 1.22).
The Government has signed a contract with a management consulting firm
(Touche Ross) in accordance with terms of reference previously approved by
the Bank.
2.23     Under the proposed project, the MOE and SLB would establish and
maintain consolidated Project Accounts as well as other records that are
necessary to account for the goods and services financed under the loan.
Such accounts would be clearly identified within the MOE and SLB accounting
systems and be adequate to record, monitor and report on the financial
transactions derived from the utilization for the project of both local
contribution and Bank financing. These accounts would be audited annually
by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the
Bank's auditing guidelines. The selection of an independent auditing firm
will be presented for the Bank's approval at least two months before the
end of each fiscal year. The Special Account at the Bank of Jamaica and
expenditures against statements of expenditures would also be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
satisfactory terms.of reference to be supplied by the Bank. The annual
audit reports would be provided to the Bank no later than six months after
closure of the MOE's fiscal year. The PIU director would be responsible
for preparing periodic (at six month intervals) progress reports to the
Bank, to provide information on project implementation, covering both
quantitative and qualitative aspects of the project.  Annex XVIII includes
a list of the main indicators for project monitoring and evaluation.
Projpct Benefits and Risks
2.24       The main component of the proposed project has been designed as
technical assistance to assist the Government to experiment with cost
effective solutions for addressing current deficiencies in Tamaica's
education system, particularly those affecting most directly basic
education. The outcome of these studies and experimental actions supported
by the project will be a governmental educational development strategy and
investment program, responsive to the current needs and consistent with
available resources. In the process, the project would also assist in
increasing MOE's planning, operational and managerial capabilities. The
proposed student loan component would support the Government's objective to
reduce subsidies to hi-her education while enabling low- and medium-income
students to continue their education.
2.25       There is the risk that the strategies for education development
resulting from the project, and particularly the results of the studies,
might not be integrated in the sectoral plan to be prepared by the



- 17 -
Government. In addition, the cost-recovery measures introduced at the
post-secondary level might be suspended for political reasons, thus
weakening the rationale for the part of the project assisting the SLB. The
risks o e minimized by the fact that the Government is highly committed to
improving the efficiency and productivity of its education system. In
addition, the Bank's strategy in Jamaica puts a heavy emphasis on
institutional development and improvement of public administration. This
project and the resulting plan for the education sector are an integral
part of this overall strategy agreed with the Government.  Thus,
substantial unilateral deviations from agreed policies are unlikely to
occur.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1      At negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on: (a) terms
of reference for project studies and consultants (para. 2.7); (b) timing
and implementation plan of the studies, including a basic education
development plan and investment program (para. 2.8); (c) procedures for the
use of fellowships (para. 2.10); and (d) on-lending terms and conditions
and the program for improving loan administration and recovery during the
first year (para. 2.13).
3.2      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances on the
following matterss (a) establishment of school maintenanee committees by
December 1988 (para. 2.6); (b) informing the Bank not later than June 30,
1990 of the initial findings of studies and presenting to the Bank for
review not later than December 31, 1990 a basic education development plan
and investment program which would take into account the conclusions of the
studies (para. 2.8); (c) adherence to an Action Program with respect to on-
lending terms and conditions for student loans and loan administration and
recovery under SLB (paras. 2.12-2.14); and (d) annual audits by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and timetable for submission of audit
reports to the Bank, on the Special Account, project accounts and
statements of expenditures (para. 2.23).
3.3      The following will be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)    the GOJ will set up the Advisory and Review Committees and
appoint the PIU Coordinator and Educator (para. 2.17);
(b)    the GOJ will have made satibfactory contractual arrangements
between the MOE and EDCO for implementation of the physical
aspects of the project (para. 2.18); and
(c)    the GOJ will have signed an agreement satisfactory to the Bank
between the Government and the SLB (para. 2.19).
3.4      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan in the amount of US$8.3 million equivalent
to the Government of Jamaica, repayable in 17 years, including a four-year
grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



NO'%
%S-~~~~N



AX= I
Pase I of 2
xvuullov pgwi" EJU&MON-AND 87-UDW WM PROJRCT -
Con"
vwmt"u
a 4wwlou umuum    ML?                            114211 m               oil am   ""Neamll
AS MM"   WWITIISKS Lnum muwm mum   mwm numv   IAW MM   SUMMY SlICUMART SIOM
GP   m                                                                              sumgm       COUCATIOpi  paimm      To   on".   STOOSM    111110".
gag VW. eNtU paaw Go TtPTAL CUtOAL AUXATO "I                                9110". $01"
HILLS. (Ijo$)  ggMe To Googunn   "I In   Nt   (1)  IAIIO  CVCL9    M                                  AS FUCW   SICUkVW          PATIO   m           NAM
1979) (1979)   90MATtOll  gIPM11M                           (1976)   (2)         (1)      T&tCj=   4WIC"ITA           2         (2)      ?1AMII    (1)
(1) (2)
cmnlq                                         14.6                                    103X      1W          21                                                      20:90
't                    ba                                                                                                                           92        is       22  6ox
w             5:#JO      6.30                                                                                              too
t4:6b    .'0b                                   34a?  21*?   ggb      1o6x      too          21
Si    23  7              7.74                                       "b        894      1006        -                                    94a       -        11.108
it    61.2  IZ.200       4.6                                                                                                            82        Is       11.4W
79    M.0  to  4"        7.9          S.I.       20   IS   I$       "bt       ob        9S         te         0.1
1.2b   6  o&jb    S. SM      13.4         3i   3 I   20     "b       too       too          24        11.6         too          62        I
aw                 so                                                                   "b        "S       100                   19.9          too          79X       106Y    16.SODY
SUBM               19      8.1  12.2so       9.0         16.2        3 I   10   10
AMCA                                                                                     100        77         32        10.0          40           20       2 1        1.80
mvrsl             SI      I.ob    920b    6.0           22.0        4  1   14   22     40                                                                   Is       I I       1.00
01110111it         SI      4.2      235      Z.Sbv       19.0        43   28   27       35        292       35         37        20.3           12
Commil             84      0.4b    34S       3.0         29.0        49   29   It       0         76        40         19        -              4S          36        28        U.60
wtom               94      0.4      460      1.0         II.$        71   26   ...    10          42        0          40        67.0           40          to        19        0.60
lismia             a  I    32.6b    14ub    2.9p         It.1        45   25   20       $3        42        "a         63         It.)          934         1 4       44        0.43
MMA                82    j7.4b    420b    S.gvb          20.1b       6S   16   1  1     4Sb      its        so         36         14.4          )5          to        26        -
LLWM               82      1.4b    430       5.5         14.9        is   12   26       SO       i  IGX     41         48         9.b           46          2  1      2  1      1.30
PAVASAWAR           17     8.5      130      4.Ow        24.0        $3   26   19       so        94ba      is          SSb        6.0          38          14        21        3. toby
FALWI              St      6.16    230b      M           11.4        Is   14   25       zsb       62        13         61          5.4          12           4        21        0.460
K4041TIUS          $1       1.06  1,170b    4.3          14.0        46   Is    I       sob       93        it          23        13.0         too          50        22        1.00
RKVM               93      j.9b    270b    1.6           27.4         It   16   a  I    31b       65        30         40         1#.o           9           5        16        0.40
savcrsuu            79     0.6   t'?7O       5.9         22.44       344  33*  106                                     25
Som"IA             el      4.5      280      1.5                     "b  41,b      bb    $ob      22b       Wb         2$b         9.0b         sob         Ilb       22        1.00
so"                So    0.211   mb    3.0                           66   19   ...    12          $tax      68          14         1.4                      16        16       ...
VAASILAW           03      O. lb    940t,   3.8pb        20.4        1  t   34   1     bSb       $3        50          33        11.0          98          29        to        3.00
TAUMU               so    18:5      260      5.9          1.7        47   10   16       lob       "b        67         43         11.0          lgb          1        208       0.30
1                                                             34                                   5        43        0.60
ocomm              so    ti bb    loob       -           16. IV      alb  N/b  20       43        54X       61                                              Is        is        2.00
"In                S     I    19.8b    2  job    7.1     26.4        -    -    to       SO        76        is          30       11.0           40
ZAMIA              so      S. 7b    sob    4. 5p         11.1        46   23   22       44b       9$        so         46        12.9           1  9        M         22        t. so
ZINB"Vg                    7.0      700b    5.1          19.5        62   32    6       44b       90        55         39        20.0                       t  S      2  3      O. SO
am                  79     3.4b    120b    b. Sli        3S.0        4     3   2  1    S    lib   43        30         46         14.0          30          1  1      4     1   t.00Y
IBM                                                                                                                    5     7   24.1           1  6                  24        0.03
WWAM                       6.5      liob    2. tv        21.1        43   29   26       9         16        25
CAMBROON           84    10.0       mb    1.1p           -           33   38   26    10           99        45b        SO        -              -           23        28        2.70
C.".               ob      Z.6b    260b    34sy          24. lay     49   1  6   24    -          79        4S         MAY       Is             -           to        67        i.408Y
CUD                76      4.4      120      1.4bvy      21.7b       --   -    -       I  5       ZSY                  77                       -            3xy      2     1   0.203'
54by                    JU          -         43by      4.004Y
2QUAT- GUIN"       05      0. 3b    27ob    2.8           3.8        47   24   ...   20b          I      I  to         so          S.2          40          2$        1707      -
CAM                 77   0.6  3.420   1. lby              8.4y    -   -   -                                            46by   -                 -           -         joby   z.W*Y
CANDU               77     0.6      220      1.)AW        b.Sb       46   256      68   10b       4ObY      90         Rby       44.78          40          12bxy    I      ?   -
CRAM                16    11.3      40t)    4.0y         .3. Sb      -    -    -       -          716"      -          .17by     -              -           36bxy    2       1  -
cuts"               79     5.3      29op    4-64p        -           2S&  2S&  286   20           34        36          )S       20.04P         es          1      6  29        7.00a
Lvov   COAST       el      9. 11,   720      7.3         42.6        S      1   40    9    3SAY   72        79         )?        29.0           49          22"       if)       1.841
Lt=tA              so      1.9      S20      4.6         19.6        41   21   24    to           S2        32         11        20.0           16          22        20        1.90
mug                8      I  nob    (go      4.24        21.18       33   J       I   I  I    to  20        60         44        IS.?           66           1        1      1  1).gosy
"MITANta           is        6b    120b    S.$           16.9        33   43   2       S    jib   32        w          64        $2.0           30           9        J$        0.117
NIM                84        2      300      2.8         21.0        40   2S   20    14           2S        to         36        41.0           3      1     6        ze        MO
NIQMA              83    93.6b    760111   7-1-Y         16.0        -    -    1       3    36    9      1  IO         16        IM             4      ?    23        10        2.00
Sgmz"L             84      6.4      380      S.ob        24.0        46b  35b  lgb   28           52        So         46        26.0           igs         168       24        2.206
St""    LIM         77     3.4      250      4.0b        j6.0b       -    -    -       15b        37K       -          35        25-06          84          ISX       22        0.60by
Togo               is      2.4      400      6. sqw      U.S4        me  284  216   I         8   74        40         54by      34.0           5      J    )2bay    4$b        1. 6obY
An   PL.                                                               93b                   Si         I      I  -             $7           3      I          21.00
74    27.3   21210       2.7         10.9                                                                                                                  -
BANAM"             79      0.2   2,770       5.7         19.1        36   36   I        I    91b  99        97         24        -              97          75        1      9
aAgahm              78     0        2 2.680  S. 5AWY     22.19       41#  31a  i6a   "b          100Y       "A         27Y       19.9b          994         ?BY       20Y      --
-           ISY      -        t2.60Y
eoLtvtA            to      S:4,    SSO       4-1*y       3U-5*       -              -     -  63   747                  IOY       -                                             12.62b
1.8          6.1        S      I   t      4    it    Ivy                  Iloy       4.Sb         blo          lsay      14ty
CatLe               76    1        .&go      3.gby       13.0b       -    -    -       -         I       I"Igy         346Y      -                          55-y    joby    I          I.quby
CDLMIA             so    2        1, 18ob    ).I         25.0        H    zu   to    SO           is        16         32         6.6                       47        20       10.0207
COSTA  AtCA        so      2.2b  1.8job    8.4           3t.1        4u   27   33    9u           93        I?         33          $.5          ly          4t)       27       14.00
cum                 is     9.6      -        8.0         11.0        -              -     -  9t  itibey    "            [$by     -              96          libsy    is        ig.n2by
wootchn  up.    so         5.1   1.030       2.9         13.0        39   21   22    68"          so        31         59          3.2          94          30        33       16.00
Num                so      6,4b  1,110       61up        3b.7        45   It   It    el          M          -        - 36         12.6          86          47        16       29.00
aL  UZVAM           77     4.4      640      3.4bY       23.1by      64    a   2    62           82bxy    12          )o        -              41          Ibbsy    ilby       7.90by
GuaCK"              is     b.8   1.010       illov       12.6b       _    -    -       -          69bxy    -           35"       -              69           lsbxy    I       #by  5.30Y
GtYTANA             76     0.8      630      6.1by       1J.6by      _    _    ._    -            "buy    -             32by     -              -           "bxy    --          3.00by
NUTI               so      S.ob    130       3.4v         7.941      65    9    6    20           5u        20         41         19.0          b2a          46       21        0.80
Nompula             76     3-6      szo      mby         14.1by      b2s  150  196   60           sob"      lo*        411;7     12.64          bp          21"       19        9.007
JAWCA              so      2.1   1.1to       6.5         13.7        37   43   20    90           96        9$         40         2.3           95          St        22        SWO
mmeo                GU    65.5   1.880       4.2         0.08        46   39   15    92           IS        51         44          9.5          86           56        II      10.30
PICAL40A            78     2.6b    610b    31obw         14.0b       --   -    -       gob        $Sbz      24          pb       -                          2#,bx     job      -
?AXAM               76     1.8b  j.550b    5.5b"         21.Sby      424  iSs  13    glb          95by      -          tsby       11.6          as$          soby     27by    ZO.40by
PARAWAT             79     3.0   1. 14')    114W         14.:        42   17   20    64           03        32         28          Mt           76          J2        la        0.70
FM                 60    16.6   1.000        3.6         14.3        5)   15   19    so           63        %          39         9.8           69          39        22       14.40Y
matow   4          TOO.   71  1.1.  1.910    4.6by        e.aby      46   32   20    95           94        9t.        30         10.5?         49          62        24       -
clumv               lo   2.9  Z.SOU M                     9.4b    -                 -     -   94  105ba   -            24b    -                 -           64big   -          17.806Y
VBNKVAU             7$    14.4   1.440       My          jS.9b       -    -    -       82        jobbe      -          26        -              -            jobs      ti      21-toy



- 19-
ANNEX 1
MWAM"U MMrM UNCAMPage 2 of 2
gIPMI?=      9DUCAT  69N W81 39.S3MON
-   ~~~~ 1        *ON   -.ic                  .-        =     --M?mu.-                amcm.-  -to
(19") (199)   SWJ    IOu  1081       830018W?       *01?1             SAIl FOB              0811M a COST1 9UM1) 143U                         (
-u                 l f so           o 079733           1108       UIUSuI0OU        libe    7186?7U61            961mB?  111.0    661                   IS060036  680.3  8103
iso8i*             SI   350.1b    $80       3.1         9.)        70   24    6       lab      IS        63         27        33.0          74          I1        36       5.70
$*W           82~*    39.36  1.6566    ).?W        20.8        34   14   33      96        99       98         63        39.0          o8          86        is       33.80
W""t&     ~ 64    IS.A6  4.87ob    6.1             16.7        39"  63V  iSv    706        978      9I         26        33.5'         69          72        33        4.00
P*IVA N.G.         83     3.0*    630       1.6         19.0       40   37   22      -         60        11*        Ila       35.0          35          3)82      I7a      3.00
MSLIFPIS           79    48.36  . 696    2,8'           34.0       64   36   -        756      84        61         is         7.3          OS          Ss        36      33.00)
8380410            W0     3.4   4.430       2.7          6.7       39   40   36       63       92        03         it         8.6          951                   33       8.00
5030033  IlL.      83     0.3b    640       CO4W        t9.0b      43   34   l0       11       is        s0         it        30.5          40          to        is        3.10
TSAIuJO            03    49.06    800b    3.4          20.3        59   36   t0       666      103       6          21         9.18         64          44        Is       4.00
vufAlU             66     0.16    -         8.3         3MS        63   27    4       33       its       60         24        It.0          2$          30        36        3.00
END=         ~79    93.36      90      1,37        30.1*7      it   I1   20      226       637       -         SI         1.6           -           34       21        3.4)
IWAII*             80      1.2      so      3.6         31.0        *- --             1         33       -          --        --
USDIA              716194.6        210     2.97         9.90       ----               36       758                  43        -              -38                  -        939
01143              83    15.06   I3S0b    1.4                                         I . -   39  10     -          18        -              -23                  3)2       1.304
PAK381*X           83    $?.lb    nob    2.0             7.U        38   20   24      22       s0        43         30         5.9          1           33        13        5.00
M AP    oqym  NT    "'-            3.            .7        47   19   Is      32        3367     69         376       -              62          8        2361      3.001
Mau  A       ~79    38.3   I.T70       3.8         32.3        348  268  21'    15        9)1       41'        3           .5            5          9        2          .0
W."                8i    43,34    650'   4.6'            7.9        338  31*  26'   44          758      80'        364        9.98         83'         438       3*        70
05m=               7      9.3   4.340       2.'         10.66 *    11   26   21        -         7629                          6.'           -          I98       36       I786
13*8               79    36.9      -        S.7?4Y      34.141     -    -    -        SO      303"X      -          328       -             -           4,aa      24a      4eey
1896               79    12.6   3.710       6.381        6.987           --        -       3007       -          38        -             -           4$47      39        9.30'1
1151*80            as     3,46  4,480      6.3SY        31.987     -    -            98        93        94         29         -98                      83        3 4      33.00
MO3                63     3.36  1.420b    4.9'          10.2       19   44   l8ob5             92e       8s         13        35.3                      69.       38        8.10
ai.0m8             i9     2.3      -.       --          36.664y    --         -       --       968       -          39        -             -           449       -        27.80*
10110:00          84    23.861    6706    6.0'         22.9       I8   45  3I9       3S        $TO       9         33        1.1                        3 4'     38        8.90k
Ohno               Ss      J.2b  6..4906    3.3         3 2. 1*    --   -    -        306?      ?lox     61W1                               90           lit      344       .
70111003           66b   30.26  3.9306    4.6           II.$       SO   lb6  S)    so         321        70         t8        16.9          68          Ss        16        8.00
5033381            7s    33.1   2.100       3.967        6.21                         la - 9   3o468                Il2l6                    so9        6aba      22b      30.4061
SPAIN              76    57.0   4.930       2.37        36.8                 -                  "by  66             296b                     -          97by      -        34.3067
ST1L1A             16     8.6   3.310       4.47        30.3       39   2)5  26       5S       9763'    80         3S6                      SS6         4167      236      13.60
103051             79     64a   1.1)0       7.01        39.0       42   39   Is       636     300'       80         396       13.6           30         3338      30        6.010
1338*5             8)        S  3,230       3.3         36.2       Su)  22   24       73b     330        77         33         6.0          1)          36        I3        8.00
NoUsimA..          84       3b   $slo6    7.97)         37.7       90   20   33t    23'        55        38         53        27.8          80           9        30        3.10
YOU   ,.D.&.       ea     2.06    4356    7.6           9,7        63*  34'  64    53          63        34         is        22.0'         46          31        20        3.30)
8o 1.ec      Weutniess                    84               93       1046967          8t        92        66         91        61             15         93        66        s8
RAGO$                          0~~~~~~1.6-    13.7-  (23-  (8-  (S-    (8-        (32-      112.       (13-      (3.4-           3O-~    (3-          (8-     (0.0)-
30.03         U4. 3   943   66)  333    99)       lit)      993         11)     6G.0            3003        643       48)     291.0)
quart;les: upper.                          1.6           it.7     13  36   22        el       96         0         A3        30             e7         41        26       33.0
Nedtao:                        4.0           36.3      63   28   39      53        63       63         35        33             6$          26       22        3.7
3a8S1S                         3.0           33.0      38 2333           25        60       is         26         9             40          14        to       1.0
qu.ttle 0*,tettwo?.                        3.3            5.4    6.5  7.5  6.5   NO.        39.0      33.1        7.0       5.6           33.5       16.1       I.$        1.0
mbao:                                      4.4           37.0     46   28   38       53       76        59         36        36             42          33       23        6.9
Standard osvIattoO:                        3.9            8.7      32   30    7      29       23        26         it        33             21         23         7        7.4
884(8..                                    4.0           36.0     43   26   39       53       83        61         is        33             65          26       12        3.7-
83T103.8.                                                               000110115:
- DATUM NN 3)6A13A8L5                                         A * 0DATUM 74306 T0 88*5 11                         8 * 9101t111 UII I3CA13011 (33D5) 0ILY
MAC6113)0  VtL 03 IIGLIGIILS                                    8  TU010346.11*C*58  13* BASS Y114*            7   WI AIM48  51811 (3,VZuIl.  0ILY
DAM15  Q058I10h*L                                              9 *1138*5  va1ets                                 V* * 753.1  181POD31i5, ONLY
*    LOWIlS PAR-ll- 1) T 133981                                9 NU83  I8SOLUU3I  RATIo                           I   t* 38133)05  U458-40  115068
F    MIS608  55113*8  RATto                        I * UNEUSCo 6031*
8Q00C116:        Co1VM   t a,d 2:  Nor 14 IVAk 81188 Of 34V4t0Q*1   081Cr field S1.81068.
Co1oBw  3 to 34:.  World leak Sd.btgtoO 841101 8188108, Government1 eutle,
sa.dlor the Uliaeeo Statistical Yearbook.
CO.peratlve 34081*0 Data arm ..eful to the e,a1u*ti of.a  VerIO  oe @444811   SyStee.s and 80817s18 0t relative SC8*$  of
.8uc*lomhl develoment tetwso 08voila"  100.t08s.  W4.ot oCt   Lb0 16  beats of the pr.aaot data. 1r089-6*ttqft1 t494i1e0r
ebeeld be ep9p8pChe WIth giret emotion. Data pCesmlOdi t.s 1above*0 table 688 beet. C01lected Jlaroly by bo*k elss44me
It", g0*8mt~8    ~08U#0   the r.I 104   are attif *stimat*e or daca f ro  Iloesto.  gfftorte hew; beet. a.s" t0 steadrdiaa
Altiodtttooa ". 010. wile t.1. to check the accuracy at the date, Nevertheless etuch del are .t1113 epefeet t0
several. repects a the Bank.4 to wrcki to twpo". thee progroostvely at. the 01000100 of itsae 07t.110.1 workt. Lt. Lbe
U". 0f th4Se det. the folloWlep qwelitfcaclooe should be k*tepk 30 0d:
(33   'Uw3to*lo   a. 4eiloM  it. the table lacludee al1 .4.1*1(00 084 178101. both formal and *80-formal.
(23  umary  edwatlot. refers s0 edotiltot. at the fIrst level, and  eecoodary' edocatloa Woes9 to aII 44.00t100
at CMe Secondary level re*rdleae of 177 (e.g.. geoersl. teehalc.I, 41rftultoral).
(3)   'Ustaray ruate. (el. 6) are of t*o Obtained f roe 4aualry cet.buh..  10 maoy cowactr(e they et* 0017
*pptova*1103o am: 1 1t dou4btful that08 oanyuiorm def 1011401, of '11teraet' 648 been follaved Conssentltt1y.
(4)   '0463t4 tipeO tuft to education- (cot.. A4*4 S) tefer, to allt cept*tl sa04 r*lurttt *.peodttutas deCotd to
education by public 40d 9u41-publlC &aactee.
($3   *Iorollmet -atlas' (cote. 7, 32 and 343 reft to s46001 year aad are the prerwago of ellgIble ehLdreo
&wxotll0 141-imat It. the approPelate .6003o, pubili aod private by Level. ro.Y are oftlen aob3ct to a 'Ida
merrgie of err  or 1. te dewelopi96 Counties ewiog to var4tlOo* It. the acCulr.y of 68.11 date (i.e.,
48m,-SPeCltto popeletee .0A erol1amte).  84o.l..at ftguree freqoinly are hIghe  168 the Co ,abe  of
stedms dte 08lly to Oechol. Ovees-agd students may be tocludad to th"e. figures and egat Letlter the rattoo..



- 20 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION, FY1985-87
Total   Recurrent   Capital
(millions of J$)
PANEL A. ANOUNTS
Fiscal Aggregates
Total Expenditures                               5,599      3,761       1,838
Total Expenditure Net of Debt Service            3,299      2,293         936
EnXenditures by Education Category a/
Central Administration                            14.0       14.0          b/
Curriculum Development                            10.9       10.9
Libraries                                         12.3       12.3          b/
Projects, Construction, Maintenance                2.4        2.4          b/
Student Support Services                           4.6        4.6          b/
Infant and Primary Education                     219.2      192.4        26.8
Secondary Education                              234.1      229.3         4.8
Tertiary and Continuing Education                 47.8       47.6         0.2
Higher Education                                  95.6       95.6          b/
Capital Expenditures
not Elsewhere Accounted                         2.7        -           2.7
TOTAL: All Education Categories           643.6       609.1       34.5
Percent
PANEL B. PRCENTAGE RATIOS
Total Education Expenditures to Total Fiscal Expenditures                  11
Infant and Primary to Total Education Expenditure                          34
Secondary to Total Education Expenditure                                   36
Tertiary and Continuing to Total Education Expenditure                      7
Higher Education to Total Education Expenditure                            15
Total Recurrent Expenditure in Education to
Total Education Expenditure                                              95
a/  'Revised budgetary estimates'
b/ Capital expenditure for these categories are presumed to be
proportionately negligible and are accounted, in aggregate, as
"Capital Expenditures not Elsewhere Accounted".
Sources Planning Institute of Jamaica, Economic and Social Survey of
Jamaica 1986. Table 6.3, p. 6.4; Tables 18.1A and 18.1B, p. 18.2.



- 21 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 5
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
STUDENTS' LOAN BUREAU
1.       Institutional Setup/Lending Program.  The SLB was created as a
statutory body in 1970, to provide financial assistance to Jamaican
nationals of proven financial need, to enable them to pursue courses of
higher education relevant to the country's manpower requirements. It has
about 50 employees under an Executive Director and operates under general
policy guidance of a 9-11 member Students' Loan Council, appointed by the
Minister of Finance. The Council members include those appointed from MOE
and Ministry of Finance. The Government has recently restructured the
SLB's management to prepare the ground for major institutional reform.
2.       In 1971, shortly after SLB's creation, the Government contracted a
low-interest loan of US$4.7 million from the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB), the proceeds of which, together with the counterpart
contribution of US$3.3 million equivalent, were made available to the SLB
to constitute the Students' Loan Fund (SLF). In 1976, a second loan of
US$5.3 million was obtained by the Government from IDB and, together with
the Government's own counterpart contribution of US$3.3 million equivalent,
was transferred to the SLB to replenish the SLF. While the intention was
for the SLB to advance new loans to qualified students out of loan
repayments and interest receipts under previous loans, serious difficulty
has been encountered in maintaining SLF's revolving nature, owing to high
incidence of delinquency among SLB's borrowers. The SLB's collection
ratios on maturities due (including the amounts in arrears at the beginning
of each year) were 35.4Z and 38.82 in FY84 and FY85, respectively. To
protect the SLF's liquidity, the Government has from the outset committed
itself to reimbursing to the SLB all loan installments overdue for more
than 90 days. In a move to put the SLB on an independent financial
footing, and at the request of the Bank, the GOJ has recently rescinded its
policy of guaranteeing the SLB portfolio. Until recently, the Government
has also met the SLB's administrative expenses, but this policy, too, has
now been rescinded. Under the new SLB management, the administrative costs
are being shifted from Government to the fund itself. 'While the Government
made grant contributions to the SLB from time to time (the last contri-
bution being in FY83), currently SLB depends on loan repayments and
interest receipts to extend new student loans -- quite inadequate to meet
the growing need.
3.       Lending Procedures and Terms.  The following criteria and
procedures constitute a part of the operational policy determined by the
Students' Loan Council which guides loans.



- 22 -
MANNEX III
Page 2 of 5
(a) To be eligible for loans, students must attend CAST, a teachers
college, the UWI campuses or such other institutions or programs
approved by the Students' Loan Council. Because of their high
default rates on loan repayment, students attending forelgn
colleges and universities are normally only supported by loans in
their final year.
(b) The amount of loan which students are eligible to receive depends
on institutions attended and computed family 'net income', which
is family gross income adjusted for large expenses associated with
education, home mortgage debt payments, etc. (Students from
families with 'net income' in excess of Jamaican equivalent of
$12,000 are ineligible for loans from the SLF). The maximum loan
amount varies by institution attended, with students attending UWI
being eligible to receive a maximum of J$2,500 or J$8,000
(depending on the campus attended), CAST students being eligible
for J$1,500, and teachers colleges students being eligible for
J$800 in FY85.
(C) The SLB has developed safeguards against borrowers' use of loan
funds for non-educational purposes (such as exchange of
information with institutions of higher education, certifications,
etc.)
(d) Student loans by the SLB are repayable following a three month
grace period after graduation. Students have up to nine years to
repay, and the length of the repayment period varies with the size
of the loan. Students who quit school prior to graduation are
required to begin repayment immediately, and the SLB may request
immediate repayment in full.
(e) The interest rate on student loans has been 62 since the inception
of the SLF, but the council raised the rate to 122 beginning with
loans to be issued in FY86. While the new rate is still below the
current market rates in Jamaica, it offers a positive rate of
interest compared with the 1986-1987 domestic price increase of
1 and estimated 1987-1988 rate of 7X.



- 23 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 5
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
SUMMARIZED BALANCE SHEETS AS
OF MARCH 31, 1984, 1985 AND 1986
(AMOUNTS IN J$' 000)
ASSETS                                  1984          1985          1986
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash & Bank Deposits                   884           414         1,365
Accounts Receivable                     41            32           107
Current Maturities                   9,516        11,042        12,174
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                  10,441        11,488        13,646
Loans and Capitalized Interest        33,838 1/    36,385 1/    37,722 1/
Less:
- Current maturities                  (9,516)      (11,042)      (12,174)
- Arrearages over 90 days             (5,219)       (5,715)       (5,939)
Net long-term loans and             19,103        19,628        19,609
capitalized interest
Recoverable from GOJ 2/               24,673        36,898        36,884
Student Insurance Fund Investments       245           362           422
Fixed Assets                              67            48            58
Subtotal                              312           410           480
TOTAL ASSETS                          54,529        68,424        70,619
1/ Including capitalized interest of J$6.3 million at end FP84, J$6.9
million at end PY85, and J$7.3 million at end of FY86. Therefore,
excluding capitalized interest, SLF's loan portfolio stood at J$30.4
million for 1986.
2/ Policy of recoverables from GOJ is no longer in effect as of 1987.



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5
(AMOUNTS IN J$'000)
LIABILITIES AND SURPLUS                 1984         1985          1986
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Due to GOJ                        1,278         2,906         4,759
Accrued Interest                  2,946         3,875         4,726
Accounts Payable                     106          134           133
Current Maturities                1,405         2,066         2,050
SUB-TOTAL                           5,735         8,981        11,668
Long-Term Debt (net of
current maturities)             47,832        58,900        58,677
Students' Insurance Fund            273           388           513
Accumulated Surplus                  689          155          (239)
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SURPLUS         54,529       68,424        70,619



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5
SUMMARIZED INCOME STATEMENTS
FOR YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 1984 AND 1985
(AMOUNTS IN J$'000)
1984         1985          1986
INCOME
Interest on Student Loans          1,714         1,904        2,031
Investment Income                    223           161          226
Others                                 7            13             1
TOTAL                              1,944         2,078        2,258
EXPENDITURES
Financial Expenses                   435           929          851
Admuinistrative Expenses           1,530         1,683        1,840
of which:
(personnel expenses)           (1,097)       (1,209)       (1,364)
(others)                          (433)        (474)         (476)
TOTAL                              1,965        2,612         2,691
DEFICIT                                  (21)         (534)        (433)



- 26 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
STUDENTS' LOAN BUREAU
LOAN REPAYMENT COLLECTION SCHEDULE
Percent* of Current Balance Due to be
Loans Coming Due for                         Collected for Fiscal Year
Repayment Durinat                    1987    1988    1989      1990      1991
FY1987                            85      86       88       89        90
FY1986                            75      80       82       84        86
FY1985                            70       75      77       79        81
FY1984                            65       70      72       74        76
7Y1983                            60      65       67       69        71
7Y1982                            55      60       62       64        66
FY1981                            50      55       57       59        61
1Y1980                            45      50       52       54        56
* Percent refers to the number of individual loans that are
due to be repaid.



- 27 -
ANNEX V
Page I of 1
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
STUDENTS' LOAN BUREAU
COLLECTIONS STRATEGIES
Applicable Recovery Strategy
Loan Category                                                                               -
LCP      JPS*    CJ      IP*      W*    ACP*        VISA*    COL*
(1)     (2)      (3)    (4)       (5)    (6)        (7)   ~ 8)
Overdue Loans               N**       N        Y     Y***       y      y         N        N
Coming Due Loans            Y         N        Y     Y         Y       Y         Y        N
New Loans                   Y         Y        Y     Y          Y      Y         Y        Y
Key: Y s yes; N = ro
I LCP  -   Strictly followed sequence of loan collection procedures, drawing upon
the experience of private sctor collections professionals.
2 JPS  -   Use government national lnsurance number (NIS) to Identify debtors who
are employed In the Jamaican Public Service. Make continued omployment
contingent upon an agreed repaymont schedule.
8 CJ   -   Obtain  tsttutory authority for court Judgmont to enforce contract.
4 IP   -   Imposo an Interest penalty on debtors who make no effort to work out a
suitable repaymet schodule. Alternatively or In addition make
available a reduced interest lncontive for early paymnt.
S W    -   Obtain statutory authorization requirlng employers to withhold loan
repayment from wage.
a ACP  -   Determine cost beeofit ratio for additional collectlons personnel.
7 VISA - Work through diplomatic channels and with WOJ emigration authoritioe
to curtail the issuance of visas to debtors.
O COL  -   For app licants from fallies at the upper end of tho perm)scable
ineo range determine whether loans could be collatoralized.
C          Indicates a new policy not presently operational.
*c         Although a sequence Is followed the exact timing is not specif ed and
much noeed Information (ofton oven addresses) is missing.
eo5        Interest penalties were not mentioned in contracts and might require
statutory status.  SIB might also try grace period during which
penalties would be forgiven for p ople who geot on schodule.



- 28 -
JmAXCA                        Page 1 of 1
FNAT m M WDTllQ AND sr w Pr
AUM Aa SO91S: PISGL FAMLl=
Ibriab         "roea Sdvoi-        NOW CLsWOoMB                    Fatrolkuut
-e_P o- --  9
lb. of       kIteUOUn       Nw      !alst1tg    Nw    Actual  Etstte    A±usl  etlmte .    _       a_
b"gdaW        (ERd.tir     Situ    Situ        Sit1            after th            af ter ths
sduolJ         situ)                                            prodee             khes
1. S. . ._ 
18 edmIsd       3          1       i4        10     5,343      5,520     1,379   2,165      1q,sua   6
uatedteszd~
equipm me
incbabd for
13 feelr
|2.St.       |                          .                                                         in .
2 sdiol          0         1        0        13       993      1,070       654     675      Rqeip w1
rwmisli,u o
umteidAo aid
iieqtpiFt a
1ncai   fot
I feeler
acb0ol.
1~Y~L             3     12          14         23    6,336      6,590     2,033   2,840
1/ Inc1ud. tmy ni   mI4utod  dhools (Grads 7-9) and selecteI all-s4   sdhOolS (GrLaes 1-9) or "Cetrul
Sdwools' in V& amd clsciwom ani sd          laboraturiu vll be hdlt for tfeir secordary edutlon
dptmits.  1hea faciltil will cater for secoidary education saiients of several feeder allage
9doIs, :uich will be ccuerted into prinry schools (Grades 1-6).



- 29 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 6
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
STUDIES TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
Study Title:  Unit Costs
Brief Description: Determination of unit costs, components of costs, and
financing of costs of public secondary, tertiary and higher education as well
as private secondary education. Includes instructional and boarding costs
(both costs financed publicly and privately) and comparisons of different
institutional types.
Policy Implication of Study: Assess the degree to which education is
privately financed, and the potential for increasing private finance. Assess
cost-effectiveness of alternative institutional types. Assess potential for
reducing unit costs.
Procedure: Sample of institutions at each level, assuring adequate
representation of different institutional types. Develop survey instrument
for schools and, if necessary, students. Administer instruments and process
data using standard software (SPSS, SAS). Run cross-tabulations of datas and
analyze results.
Timing: Begin development of methodology and survey instrument in March
1988, and completed by December 1988.
Staffing:
(i)  Foreign Technical Assistance:
Development of Methodology                   1.0 staff/month
Development of Survey Instrument             1.5 staff/month
Data Processing on Computer                  1.5 staff/month
Analysis of Cross-Tabulated Results          2.0 staff/month
Report Preparation                           0.5 staff/month
Total T.A.       6.5 staff/month
(ii) Local Consultants:
Development of Survey                        1.0 staff/month
Data Processing                              1.0 staff/month
Total L.C.        2.0 staff/month
Jamaican Counterparts:
Staff of the Planning Unit of MOE.



- 30 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 6
Total Costs:                                         US$
(i)  T.A. 6.5st/m x US$ 10,000/st/m              65,000
(ii)  L.C. 2st/m zx US$ 3,500/st/r                 7,000
(iii)  Travel, per diem, etc.                       2,000
(iv)  Materials                                    1,000
75,000
-rnrn



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Study Title: Student Loan Scheme
Brief Description: Determination of student and family income, ano student
expenditures on instruction and boarding, computed separately for different
institutional types witin higher education (e.g. CAST, T.T. Colleges, UWI).
More accurate determination of the potential demand for student loans and
appropriate terms and repayment arrangements.
Policy Implication of Study: Will allow the government to determine the
deslrable combination of grants, fellowships and loans as well as the MDst
efficient and equitable terms of repayment for student loans.
Procedure: Select sample of students at each institutional type. Develop
survey instrument. Determine secondary documents useful in verifying
responses about family income. Administer instruments and process data.
Report components of student incomes and expenditures by income level and
institutional type. Collect and analyze existing records on student loan
repayment and default. Analyze flows of funds to student loan program and
sensitivity to interest rate clanges.
Timing:  Begin development of methodology and survey instrument and
collection of data in March 1988 and completed by December 1989.
Staffing:
(i) Foreign Technical Assistance:
Development of Methodology                      2.0 staff/month
Development of Survey Instrument                3.0 stafffmonth
Data Processing                                 2.5 staff/month
Data Analysis                                   3 0 staff/month
Total T.A.         10.5 staff/month
(ii) Local Consultants:
Development of Survey                           1.0 staff/month
Data Processing                                10 staff/month
Total L.C.          2.0 staff/month
---
Jamaican Counterparts: Staff of the Planning Unit of MOE and Student Loan
Bureau, with selected staff of tertiary institutions involved.
Total Cost:                                            US$
(i)  T.A. 10.5st/m x US$ 10,000/st/m              105,000
(ii)  L.C. 2st/m x US$ 3,500/st/m                   7,000
(iii)  Services                                      4,000
(iv)  Materials                                     2,000
Total             118,000
-u--a--



- 32 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 6
Study Title: School Administration and School Maintenance
Brief Description: Assessment of possible administrative reform in
education, particularly at regional and local levels, including
decentralization of certain administrative functions. Evaluation of
alternative means for improving school maintenance at primary and secondary
levels. Emphasis on potential role of local school boards, local
parent-teacher organizations, and local communities. Study assesses the
investment costs, recurrent costs, feasibility, and effectiveness of
alternative approaches.
Policy Implication of Study: May lead to decentralization of certain
functions of MOE, resulting in a reduced administrative apparatus of central
level, and increased involvement of local authorities in school
administration and maintenance of physical facilities, to reduce maintenance
burden on recurrent budget of the MOB.
Procedure: Analysis of present administrative procedures and structures.
Select set of administrative alternatives, assess impact of each alternative
on administrative costs (human resources and financial) and effectiveness.
In addition, it will be based on local sample surveys to determine
maintenance needs, (reveal current means of providing and financing
maintenance) and parental response to possible alternatives.
Timing: Begin in March 1988, and completed by September 1989.
Staffing:
Foreign Technical Assistance:
(i)  Management Consultant                           3.0 staff/month
(ii)  Local Consultancies                             9.0 staff/month
(iii)  Study Tour (e.g. to Costa Rica, Paraguay)    5.0 staff/month
Total          177.0 staff/month
Jamaican Counterparts: Staff of the school operations Division, and of the
Planning, Primary and Secondary Units of the MOE.
Total Cost:                                             US$
(i)  T.A. 3st/m x US$ 10,000/st/m                   30,000
(ii)  L.C. 9st/m x US$ 3,500/st/m                    32,000
(iii)  Study tour 5st/m x US$5,400/st/m               27,000
(iv)  Services, travel, etc.                          3,000
Total           92,000



- 33 -
Annex VII
Page 5 of 6
Study Title: Reform of Secondary Education
Brief Description: Financial evaluation of alternative secondary education
reforms, including new curricula, rationalization of existing institutional
types, with particular emphasis on the feasibility of a unified lower cycle.
Policy Implication of Study: Study should lead to a restructuring of
curriculum and types of secondary education with reductions in costs and
improvement in effectiveness. Costs should be reduced by simplifying
provision of secondary education and realizing economies of scale from
adoption of a standardized curriculum and instructional materials at lower
levels.
Procedure: Develop alternative approaclhes in light of present Jamaican
educational and economic conditions, Determine implications of alternatives
for staffing, costs, educational effectiveness, and access by students.
Assess the required investment to undertake alternative reforms and the
irdplications for recurrent cost, and a feasible schedule for implementation.
Timing:  Begin in March 1988 and finish by September, 1989.  This study is
closely linked with the unit costs and school administration and school
maintenance studies. The technical part of the study is estimated to require
about 6 months (educational aspects) whereas the "feasibility" discussions of
various alternatives might require more than the estimated six-month
duration.
Staffing:
vi) Foreign Technical Assistance:
Curriculum Development                        4.0 staff/month
Technical/Vocational Educatioa                4.0 staff/month
Assessment of Cost Implications               2.0 staff/month
Total            10.0 staff/month
m00
(ii) Local Consultants
Curriculum Development for
Lower Secondary Education                     4.0 staff/month
Total            4.0 staff/month
Urn.
.'amaican Counterparts: Staff of the core Curricul.um Unit, Technical
Jocational Unit, and Planning Unit of MOE.



- 34 -
ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 6
Total Cost:                                         US$
(i)   T.A. 12st/m x US$10,000/st/m              100,000
(ii)   L.C. 16st/m x US$3,500/st/m                14,000
(iii)   Services                                    2,000
(iv)   Materials                                   2,000
Total           118,000
r-m-



- 35 -
am TM
JAMAICA
-           ,     PIWARA=  AiN SflW   LOW PM
DWRVICZ IRADINN PROGRAM
Tzuni  Prgu                              wod.hops/                                                  T ba
for                                 Semnars           Schedule          Traius              cs 
A. Tadwr Traines   4 local               (a) Education        1987          11e l*niatr c              1,000
PINultaIts         Plicies                            Education
3 HE smAor'       (b) A&unlatra-                     11w scztaiy c&
staf                tbe Reform                        Fin.e
2 UWI staff          (P)                              11e National
2 ARP officers    (c) o 0iaul.         1987            Budst Director
2    0wriwum         Developut                       1e Dam of the
offires            N_                                 Sdcol cf
2 P3 officers    (d) MotbodolqD1                       !dwztlio
The APP Director
B. HE Officer          25 Education      twday                1987          local CADULta              1,500
Oficers          nbsh ps in:                       In Career  duc-
(a) Student                        tion. Staf ci
Evalxtim                        the WI.
(b) Co"eling
(c) Vocationa
orientati  at
the juaior sec-
onar school
Cd) lult-fin
evaluation of
the teacher
trainf   prc
gra
Co Schol Pdnd-        110 persona       ore-d              1988-1989        loca and forep            11,000
pals and Cw lm                          seminas in:                           ow iukants, WI,
(frw  All-                              (a) Evaluation                           staf.
aM  elected junior                       (b) Counselling
sacowlazy s chols)                       (c) Aptitue
Thating
D. Schol  Wper-        15 person        a-day aak-        Om each y'ar    HIE sor                      1,000
vIsoVs                                  Shops in:          1987-1989         of flcers, fomr
(a) School                         servims  amd
manwm_lt                        local coiwult-
(b) Supervisi4n                    ants.
TechnIques
(c) School
YaintenM



- 36 -
am v1u
L   SdIo  PdMd-       50 pS O.          ow- or noa-day   So amually:       locel cmult-               15,0O0
pal g Ui. -                            rmsvbp  in:    1987-198             arts, HZ sor
rjUs A   sid                            (a) S&hooJ. effie   od VA
tombwd       deotttImi                                                     staff.
a1u-s  sduo                             (b) School
woecta                    ~Ib
(c) Qdmnce
ad aptiude
tn.
F. All-Op udwo        200 ipos          on-da             1987-1988        HZ senior                  25,000
tl_..                                   sadrs in:                          offtsr, schoo
(a) the of                         super4lom,
tXte¢boc                           local coreultants
(b) Prqsation                      and asetm
of  idzW                           princpals of the
Mtor""s                            teaw       tr4nhi
(c) Student                        ciIs.
(d) harvwork
In the class-
0. NU offier and   35 perw              one-day semt-     1987-1988        Poeip and locd              4,000
oselectd sdOc&M                         nacs on:                           ooultants, UWI
1ncipa  and                            (a) suitive                         staff.
tim  ece traialm                       the in-service
(b) Schoo
o s   cf~~~~~~~~o educatiE
(d) Pecmwda-
tiniw for f-p-
ture prcg
R. All-Age adwol      10 person         2 one-day sm-   (kie amimafly:     voreipi wuult-              1,500
prtmcipsls                   ~~~~~narn in:     1987-1988         ants, sdeled
(a) School Ad-                     schoo princ-
ministration                       pals and HZ
(b) Ne  tre                        senior offirea.
In school vev
(c) S o
(d) leadeRshp
in Education
L ~~aw l   4610                                             pe2- teanl  o  ,00
/In a  ony cost of daly allw    to paticipants (i.e., food transportanto, hoselct
ad leang MT11s). FMs for maxdtants ad trailne  are nt Included.



- 37 -
~~ATLG4  ~    uam   ~ enwir                am u 
JAIoA                                        4
Ttd0
AA 4Y TWO=  hSSIE                Stff  Uni Wtthn thi            Coat
1. OGWu mf
Specia  in bRlis             4    O                      40,000
reaf                                 unit
Speidit in Scie1.            6                           60,000  Sciees te_lis ith god
aierit so tiat tay coamd
avirn an and eisat with te
duig aad dvelopintof
sieme awrznih. (grel 7-9)
Sdaliat in leanag            4   7ech.tVoc. Ibit         40,000
mmat pvCo.
Specialst In distaei         9   Tetiay Undt             80,000  leAnt awerin  In dthi field
tea,Mng.                                                         18is dfrble.
Spedalst in Ewlation,       10   Baluation asd          lO0,000
Qudnids and Caaelz.         10    zdomm Unit.           100,000
Education Sttiosi  Spec.     3                           30,000
2. Tech./oc. E ation           4   Tech. Voc. ldt          40,000  To avie on and asidst with
the desiP, pogr..i  and
lq~lntaionof tim In-
mrviae  teader trai
3. Studies                                                          pc
Unit cos                     6.5  Plamdz  hdit           65,000
student loa8 satrn          10.5  Swlamtts' loan        135,000
Scbhol aAA1.stttion and      3    Scol opqtit            300000
sdio uMltiAmB                     Division
Refotmof Sac. EductIon       12    Oe Cwriculm Uit
Tedmical Vocation Udit
_    Plaml Unit                000
Sub-total          82                          80000



- 38 -
E1G= P3KAM WAAwM AND MM WM  W
TKE          A81R   JUID SZVA
AhM OF urW l.   ASSISTARM       Stdff     lhlt Witbin the       Cost
S. wt omm .
1. OCL0I.TAm
Speciaitas In Fqlish
marg to ,o* as             4       Core OzriclAm MOt   14,000 local speialiests w    work, as
Ath tbm                                               nsed, slocal omuteparts of
foreipn comdltant on                                             foreg  specalts.
thts mset.
Eciaists In Sciezoe         4                            14,000
Specialists in Matl_tntc   12                            42,000
Speciass In                12                            42,000
Sodal Studii.
Specialists in lower       12      Tertiary Unit         42,000
-           Eduatio
(Caore Ozawbi)
L.Soddle  of Education        2       Tertiry Unit           7,000
(Assistaw COd
Education Officer)
3. Siooil aZcXn               2       Sewnd Ery   catio      7,000 2m spedalIsts In wcal super-
lkit                          don w11l assist in prsprz  w
lla for the cur  for MZ
aUIPevis.
4.                            4       Pianing Unit          14,000
5. Studlas
Units asts                  2      P1nni1g unit           7,000
Student loan sebne          2      Pl _vri Unit aM        7,000
Student 4on Butew
Schel adduietration        9       Smol Operatiow
ar seool m                            ivision            32,000
Rfom of sec. eduation       4      Core  0wriLua Unit
Tedmical Voc. Unit
-       P]amig Unit           14,000
Sub-total        69                            242,00D



- 39 -
JAMI                                    sPa  3f  4
17 1ROMN A  AND    WN }W N
- AL hIIVM AND PIULLUSM
Total    -0
AMA8 (F TKNICA  Assign=I    ND. Of  Staff   Unit within the          Ccst
SW=~                      Fe- 1scos Mxtu   )Unltry of Ed.      U_$              lAmusa
C. PEUZIAS.
1. Arcdlteettre               2       12   Archtects Sectlon   36,000    To Iqowm the expertlis of
the architects in the
Project I      laatatim and
Mutnte1we Units of th
m[,
2. Evalustiwi and             4       4 10   Evaluation ard
stiZlg                                   CUwlig Unit.    120,000    lb *rove the competerte
and expertise of the educa-
tion officers workig on
tetirg and meauwemei of
program ealuation.
3. ReforDi      and           7       36   Core Curariibu       108,000    To ugade the d18ls aid
Developmxt                                                              expertise of the tE
ffi.ee  working on English
reading, science etication,
music ad core oruicaul.
4. Study Tour                 5        5   Mintenab  e Unit      27,000    l see experienes In
cmmity participation in
wlhool vaintenance
5. Strategie In
In-rvioe tnin              2       12   Trtiary Udt cf        36,000    lb study, oseerve ain
the Ia                         doarut a  strategles
mDe  in inservice
teader trainitg so that
tbose concerned can work
with the foreip special-
ist in desIgnivg the ir
service teadur training
6. Tbade Education            2       18   Trtiawy Unit        541000      To uMgrade the ddfls and
epertise of MOE officers
so that they can asist In
the lnpl1entatim and
supvision of the nw hr
service traiidrg program.
7. Teacher EducaIon          12       24      rIary Unit       72,000      Upgrading of lecturers at
T.T. Iatitutioiu



- 40 -
A        IX
JAWAIA                                 Pa      f 4
m,IWXRA   E PAIAAR14 AND STn W I U PN 
iGRA ASSISIME AND FES
Total     Coordiating
AREAS (F DEI       X    Z ASIS1   No. of    Staff   Utit witbln the    Cost
==CBS                     Pesm      It            oty of Ed.      US$           Rnemrks
8    atioan Statistics        2        12      Planirg Unit       36,000  lb upgrade the skis of
staff in the Planig Unit
to prepare a data base on
education statistics.
9. Exation Planing and        4        32      Plamlirg lldt      96,000  To upgrade staff In
EAtion Econmis                                                   -      education paing, aid in
InXarlou areas ef
education scosnmics.
Sub-total         40       191                        585,000
D. RELIT S        SS AND MAT3IAIS FM STMlES
Services
Travel, etc.   Materas   Total
t_                                         lBS             US$   U$
unit Costs                                 2,400            1,000      3,000
Student Ia=s                               4,000           2,000       6,000
Sdiool Alistration                         3,000            -          3,000
Reform of Secondary Education              2,000           2,000       4,000
Sdol Mppig                                  -             10,000      10,000
Total                                  11,400          15,000     26,000



- 41 -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of I
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PP.OGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
Computing Equipment Requirements
Department of Utilization                       Cost
Students' Loan Bureau                           75,000
HOE Planning Office                             25,000
TOTAL                                     100,000



- 42 -
PapIof 1
JAN&1A
EDWATM       PWAR=Ma MW  WM M
Lama of PmAts Ca
(*t of Tam ad Dutim)
Total
J$ tbmuad          U8tumds                    Fordep      Boa
Prolect Coa  Blocal  Fk                                Tot        loal  F         Tota1              C os
1. ecluical Asitance and Studles
- Forde  Crmutant                   605   4,015    4,620        110      730    8M        87        09
- lcad COvaulan                     990      385    1,375      10        70      250     28        03
-=Reated SevelsaiWAMaterlals         165       0       165       30        0       30      0         0
-   inhi= rps                         'O   3,190    3,190         0      580      580    100        06
2. Iv-Serice Staff Tmlnilg             550       n       550       100        0      100      0        01
3. Scolol Corttmeti~m & iax,vatiaw
- Nm Coutzuctian                  10,395   6,930   17,325    1,890    1,260   3,150       40        34
- Renoatio                         2,145   1,430    3,575       390      260      650     40        07
4. Fturzne and E4uimit
- Fburitue                          550      330      880       100       60      160     38        01
-EqU4pmt                              0      715      715         0      130      130    100        01
- C qtag EupMnIt                      0      605      605         0      110      110    100        01
5. Studnta' tam Prnrm Expauin    19,250           0   19,250    3,500         0   3,500       0        38
Total  e  Costs                   34,650  17,600   52,250    6,300    3,200   9,500       34        100
Physical C       stizUes           1,540   1,760    3,300       280      320      600     53        06
Sub-Total                         36,190  19,360   55,550    6,580    3,520   10,100      35        106
Price Contlngemies                 2,541   2,904    5,445       462      528      990     53         10
TOtAL PM=  M1                     38,731  22,264   60,995    7,042    4,048  11,090       37        117



- 43 -
ANNEX XII
Page 1 of 1
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
FINANCING OF PROJECT COSTS AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign         Total        X
IBRD                             4.2             4.1           8.3         75
JAMAICA                          2.8             0.0           2.8         25
Total                   7.0            4.1           11.1       100
ESTIMATED BANK DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year
Category
1988        1989         1990        1991
Annual                   1.6         3.1          2.8         0.8
Cumulative               1.6         4.7          7.5         8.3



- 44 -                                nau 
JAMACA
EWATCN PFDRMI PRPARATL AND S IUM WMPU
w~~~~~~~~~~~P l'-o£ 
)flnstry of
F    e                         Minister of lAucatio
Review ottee
advise au assis In
refdom prcrm
Pernent Secetay
Director
Projects, Conwtruction and
_intence Division
Project Adisory Coittee            Project    emwtation Unit  /
Avise and asist in imple-          - CoordinatDr
untation of education as-          - General Educator
pects of prodect:                  - Coiutruction Maqer
- Teacher Training                 - Procurem± Spedalist
- Qirriaii                         - kccmtant
- Studies                          - legl Officer
- Speialist Asdstance              - Support Penonl
-    FeUtsbip Training
- In-6ervlce TrainIng
Studeens' Loan bireeu
Manaps the Students' Loan Prcgram
and nukes periodic reports to the
PIU Cooinator for foS EM   tD
the Bar



- 45 -
ANNEX XIV
Page 1 of 1
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR  YEAR               1987       1988       1989        1990         1991
QUARTERS              1  2  3  4 1  2  3  4 1  2  3  4 1  2  3  4 1  2  3  4
Civil Works
(All sites obtained)
New Schools (2):
Site Surveys
Design
Tender Documents
Tendering, Evaluation and
Contracting
Construction
Renovations/Extensions:
Facility and Site Surveys        _
Work Orders and Designs
Tender Documents
Tendering, Evaluation and
Contracting
Construction
Purniture and Equipment
List and Tender Documents
Tendering, Evaluations and
Construction
Delivery and Installation
Computing Equipment
Specifications
Tender, Evaluate and Award
Delivery and Installation
Studies
Unit Costs
Student Loan
School Administration and                                 -
Mainteance
Secondary Reform
Technical Assistance and
Fellowships
Draft Education Development
Plan



- 46 -
ANNEX XV
Page 1 of I
JAMAICA
EDUCATION 1iROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN VROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Category                       Procurement Method         Total
ICB     LCB     OTHER       Costs/a
School Construction and Renovation
New                                           4.0                 4.0
(2.4)/b            (2.4)
Renovation                                    0.80                0.80
( .5)                 . *5)
Furniture and Equipment
Equipment                            0.15    0.10      0.05/c    0.30
(0.15)  (0.10)   (0.05)    (0.30)
Furniture                                     0.20                0.20
(0.20)             (0.20)
Technical Assist, and Studies
Foreign Cons. and Fellowships                          1.80       1.80
(1.80)    (1.80)
Local Cons. and In-service Training                    0.50       0.50
(0.50)    (0.50)
Student Loan                                             3.5        3.5
(2.6)     (2.6)
Totals                                0.15    5.10     5.85      11.1
(0.15)  (3,20)   (4.95)    (8.3)
a/ Includes all contingencies.
b/ Numbers between brackets reflect Bank financing.
c/ Local Shopping



- 47 -
ANNEX XVI
Page 1 of I
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
LIMITS ON TYPE OF PROCUREMENT
(US$ thousand)
Type of Contract                 Contract     Aggregate      Type of
Procurement
School Construction
and Renovation                                       4,800       LCB
Equipment and Furniture:
Computer Systems and Complex         -
or Large Equipment Items                              150       ICB
Other Equipment and Library
References                          50 or less        100       LCB
Misc. Equipment and Materials        20 or less         50   (Price Quot.)
3 local
bidders)
Furniture                                              200       LCB



- 48 -
ANNEX XVII
Page 1 of 1
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
AUDITING EXPERIENCE UNDER LOAN 2070-JM
1.   The audits of the project accounts maintained at the Ministries of
Education, Youth and Community Development are performed by the independent
audit firm of Touche, Ross, Thorburn. The latest report received covers
1985.
2.   The audit reports concerning the National Development Agency (NDA) 1/
by Touche, Ross, Thornburn for the fiscal years ended March 31, 1982 and
1983 were issued by the middle of February of 1983 and 1984, respectively.
The report for FY84 has been received in March 1986. The independent
auditor expressed a clean opinion on all fiscal years. The delay in
issuing these reports has largely been attributed to the unsolved
weaknesses in the system of recording and filing internal information
prevailing in the Ministries of Education, Youth and Community Development,
and in the NDA.
3.   In addition to the audit by a private firm, the Auditor General of
Jamaica annually reviews the educational sector and his comments are
included in the "Report of the Auditor General on the Appropriation and
Other Account of Jamaica for the Financial Year ended 31 March.,.." The
Bank has reviewed the reports for FY83 and FY84 regarding the Ministry of
Education in general and the execution of the project through the MOE and
MOY in particular. The related comments, which include observations in the
financial management of both the MOE and Bank's loans, disclose continuing
arrears in the maintenance of the accounting records, weaknesses in the
system of internal control and other unsatisfactory features in the MOE's
operations (such as inadequate control of stores and assets, and over
grants to agencies and institutions).
1/ This agency was closed by the Government in 1985. Responsibility for
project school construction has been taken over by the Estate
Development Commission (EDCO), under the responsibility of the Ministry
of Public Works.



- 49 -
mm
,a  EM PAREA  MID S-      tNM N
:MM DVA
TecluAcal Ases1twmo
Field of Epertise            Ttal
(iwin   local ocsdtant)    stYeaw                              Year I       Year III       Co  u
1. Uits cot study             6.5 (2)         4.5 (1.5)       2  (.5)                    T.A. lptfort d
studa  ii be
2e Student l     wtudy       10.5 (2)         6.5 (1)         4  (1)                     ,miterd  In
Jution   h t
3. Sol  dalntration,                                                                                    f
and umntezze stud         3  (9)           2 (6)          1  (3)                         studies.
4. Secondaryr omstuy         12( 4)            2             10  (4)
Sb-rotal               32 (17)          15 (8.5)       17 (8.5)
5. English reedg              4  (4)          2  (2)          2 (2)                      fl mranfzn T.A.
wil be monitoe In
6. Sciexoe                    6  (4)          6  (2)             (1)          (1)        accedazmnitha
yealy pla  to be
7. 1e.nIg matils              4                                4                         prWed by dty lP:
sta3  WIll be
8. Mabtattes                     (12)             (4)            (4)          (4)        rqord  In
I                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qwterl   r s
9. Distauoe te.hing           9                                             9            rOrts.
10j. Evuation                 10                4               4            2
11. Qddanoe and ciaelti       10                4               4            2
12. Social studies                (12)             (5)            (5)         (2)
13. Iwr sec. education            (12)             (2)           (8)          (2)
14. Statistics                 3                2               1
15. Tech./Voc. Education       4                2               2
16. Sociolcgy of education         (2)             (2)
17. Scol supersion                 (2)                            (2)
18. Schol umppi                    (4)             (4)
Total                  82 (69)          35 (29.5)      34 (30.5)    13 (9)
PefloiiPs
Prlor to each yapl o   ye, a plan proa diq tg de  ir of fellm, their fmctio, destintion, duration of
stay wMll be preqard. lxdtoring will be bosed upWm t  pln; each prcgrm  rqort wl contain a tale bIuds
the status cf the fillowship po  al
1/    ber in pretluss Indicate loal co_mtaits



- 50 -
ANNE XXX
Page 1 of 1
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEES
The high level Review Committee is to meet quarterly; the Technical
Advisory Committee is to meet monthly.
REVIEW COSMTTEE
Permanent Secretary, MOE - Chairman
Chief Education Officer
Financial Secretary, MOFP or nominee
Deputy Financial Secretary (Budget), MOFP or nominee
Director-General, PIOJ or nominee
Office of the Prime Minister (Bureau of Management Support)
Vice Chancellor, UWI or nominee
Assistant Chief Education Officer (Planning)
Director Projects, MCE
President of CAST or t.ominee
TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTER
Director Projects, MOE - Chairman
Assistant Chidf Education Officer (Planning)
Assistant Chief Education Officer (Curriculum)
Assistant Chief Education Officer (Secondary Education)
Assistant Chief Education Officer (Technical and Vocational)
Assistant Chief Education Officer (Evaluation and Counselling)
Nominee of Jamaica Teachers' Association
Nominee of Financial Secretary, MOFP
Chief Architect, MOE
Representative of Private Sector Organizations of Jamaica (PSOJ)
Nominee of Vice Chancellor, UWI
Nominee of Director-General, PIOJ
President of CAST or nominee



- 51 -
ANNEX XX
Page 1 of I
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PMEPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1. Jamaica Education Statistics
2. Student Loan Council Ant
3. Three Alternative Scenarios of Student Loan Fund Growth, July 1987
4. SLB Account Balances by Academic Institution, March 1986
5.. Government of Jamaica Budget 1987
6. Project Preparation Report
7. SLB Collections Strategies, November 1987



I
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



MAP SECTION
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



78X00'                                                      t7-30
BAY                                 PALMOVIH                      0oo1 1oi
lotow~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ld.Tw
J r ' s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WakfeI..d                                             7- 
Ii   At N   0   V   f   h                  bS  !    !ANMFS              '                                          $r
Sv . C lawovr T  R   F   a -  A  N fi                 A   N  N
; - _ ,  9   R   t  Nf tW                  b                         S        ~~~~~~                ~~~/   S I   A NN
E  s  I           t   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                         Ic
geeil WE STI  MO\ R   l A N   /.                                          A           L           L 1 
er' Corner                                                       " .
A                 lOx~~~~ ~~~~~ford   r-                   -
,,^   X     W        X  <                   M                  18 8x jM I D      0S   L    E
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ru  HaI  ll
S  I                       E L I 7 A  B  F  T H\
Boptis\                                                 \  C l, A R E  s       O
r  Let:OiO>t          \\             uiomald
gL } _ ~~~~~~~\ MANtDEVILLE
J A  M  A  I C  A                    BLACK RIVl                    1        t       )r  
OURTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                           M  C H-S!FMAY p
*    EXISTING SCHOOLS WITH CLASSROOMS TO BE ADDED                                                                        Cooks
o }   NEW SCHOOLS
-        ARTERIAL ROADS                                                                                                             I
SECONDARY MAIN ROADS                                                   pott
S --'--.-RAILROADS                                                                                                                 Uon.
RIVERS
4    MAIN PORTS                                                                                                       Rocy Poi1
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
4    LOCAL AIRPORTS
~-.      PARISH BOUNDARIES
-        COUNTY BOUNDARIES
-* -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES        7roo'                                                       7730'
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                _ 



IBRD 20446
77k0                                                                          ?830                           'NITIO StAttS
JAMAICA
i'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 i''l tvttSAYAO
)                                                                                                                FANAIIIA       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*AI
MAeSICO                                         Nit.
, L AILIZI
a30      -~~~~~~        KONOUZAS
GUATEMALA        -,?    NgCAAOUA
It SALVAcen  A
4t                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTA RIA PANAMA
0xMoneogue~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KC 'u ,,  v  _tUfA
PRT MARIA                                                                                                     COLOUSIA
Mount  Diablo i-/\*s#rl  
*- \~~S                     S      MAX JCURIY>W\;
Cmsc~~~~~~~~I Pad ~ ~ ~       ~       Tqs   
\   §lzleoit tz              0  t    \!  (r   o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R  11AF  
I   N/0Boo Wali                                                   H S lony l '-
9  \S  T       C  A  T  H  ER I              h  Ig                      -R                                                                         Htct< --R 2
SPANISH TOW                                                              C     V lfey
Old
OldJ Harbvur Boy                       Royal
0      o     r      Moront
84)
rovm
MILES                                 tw P.   TMp n0w _r
0 1 2 3 * 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~km." Ti* krs_d
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I l;. E S                       _ , * __, 
?720                                                                         le,30'
JULY 1987



