Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14975
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
(LOAN 2899-JM)
SEPTEMBER 22, 1995
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 1987)
Currency Unit     =    Jamaican Dollar (J$)
J$1.00                  US$0.1818
US$1.00           =    J$5.50
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
September I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP           Administrative Reform Program
CAST          College of Arts, Science and Technology
EDCO          Estate Development Commission
GOJ           Government of Jamaica
HEART         Human Employment and Resource Training Trust
LA            Loan Agreements
MOE           Ministry of Education
MOF           Ministry of Finanice
NHC           National Housing Corporation
PA            Project Agreements
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
ROSE          Reform of Secondary Education
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SLB           Students' Loan Bureau
SLF           Students' Loan Fund
SLP           Student Loan Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE                                                                                       i
EVALUATIONSUMMARY   __
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTA TION ASSESSMENT                                                   I
A. Project Objectives                                                                         1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                                                          2
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation                                               4
D. Project Sustainability                                                                     5
F. Borrower Performance                                                                       5
E. Bank Performance                                                                           6
G. Assessment of Project Outcome                                                              7
H. Future Operations                                                                          7
I. Key Lessons Learned                                                                        8
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES                                                                  9
PART III - EVALUATION OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES                                        21
Social Objectives.                                                                           21
APX
A. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
(Ln. 2899 - JM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Program
Preparation and Student Loan Project in Jamaica, for which Loan 2899 - JM in the amount of
US$8.3 million equivalent was approved on February 10, 1988 and made effective on May 13,
1988.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1994, three and a half years after the original
closing date of June 30, 1991. Final disbursement took place on March 14, 1995, at which time a
balance of US$1.32 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared under the leadership of Jill Armstrong of the Human Resources
Operations Division (LA3HR) of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, with the
assistance of Martha G. Preece, and reviewed by Julian F. Schweitzer, Division Chief, and
Robert W. Crown, Project Adviser. The Borrower provided comments that are included as
appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission of January
1995. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's preparation and execution.






EDUCATION PROGRAM PREPARATION AND STUDENT LOAN PROJECT
(Ln. 2899 - JM)
JAMAICA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Prior to the above project, the Bank had financed three education projects in Jamaica, totaling
US$29.9 million: the First (Ln. 468-3M), Second (Ln. 727-JM), and Third (Ln. 2070-JM) Education
Projects (Table 2). The first two provided assistance for the development of secondary education (junior
and comprehensive schools), and tertiary education institutions--the College of Arts, Sciences and
Technology (CAST), the Jamaica School of Agriculture (JSA), and four teacher training colleges. The
third project supported the expansion and qualitative improvements of selected technical and vocational
education and training systems to meet changing labor market requirements. All three projects made
important contributions to the expansion and development of Jamaica's educational system. Enrollment
in the institutions involved in the first two projects exceeded the initial plans by 15 to 30 percent, while
the training systems hold an excellent reputation both inside and outside the country.
2.    Along with the three projects mentioned above, the Social Sectors Development Project (Ln.
3111-JM) also supported the Government of Jamaica's (GOJ) efforts to improve the efficiency, delivery
and management of social services, including the rehabilitation of pre-primary and primary education,
and the construction of regional education offices (Table 2).
Project Objectives and Description
3.    The main objectives of the Education Program Preparation and Student Loan Project (Ln. 2899-
JM) were to prepare, pilot, and evaluate options for cost-effective measures for qualitative improvement
of basic education (with particular emphasis on Grades 7-9), and more efficient administration and
targeting of the Student's Loan Program (SLP) for higher education. A new core curriculum for
secondary education was to be developed and piloted. The civil works component included the
refurbishing of 16 All-Age schools and consolidation of grades 7-9 into four newly constructed central
schools. Total project costs were US$1 1.1 million.
Achievement of Objectives
4.    Careful preparation and efficiency in planning and management were key to the success of the
project's primary objective, namely improving the quality of basic education at the lower secondary level
(grades 7-9). The second objective, namely increasing efficiency and cost-effective performance of the
student loan program was partially achieved.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
5.    Implementation of the education component was very successful with the new curriculum
developed and introduced into eleven project schools. All the teacher, curriculum and instructional
material guides were successfully developed and distributed. In spite of some delays in the provision of
resource materials, all training workshops and in-service training for teachers, principals, vice-principals
and education officers were successfully implemented (Part I, paras. 6-7).



iii
6.    The civil works component, however, was marred with several difficulties leading to significant
time and cost overruns and three extensions of the project closing date. The main factors affecting civil
works were: (i) weak management and technical capacity of the MOE, especially the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU); (ii) poor staffing and technical skills in the Estate Development
Commission (EDCO); (iii) inadequate flow of counterpart funds; and (iv) inefficient procurement
procedures and supervision of construction activities. The completion rate for the refurbishing and
consolidation of schools and the construction of 5 central schools was partially satisfactory (Part I, para.
8). Out of 20 feeder schools to be rehabilitated, only 15 were completed; and of the 5 new central
schools to be built, only 2 were finished, 2 were canceled, and I was partially completed.
7.    The Student Loan Program had mixed results (Part I, para. I1). The re-capitalization of the
student loan fund was successfully completed and all funds were disbursed within seven months of
project effectiveness. The studies on cost recovery and administrative efficiency were also completed
and led to important changes being made in the SLB's collection strategies resulting in some
improvement in the recovery rate (Part 1, para. 22). Unfortunately, administrative and financial
inefficiencies (high defaults, administrative costs and interest subsidies) and macro-economic factors
(high inflation rates) undermined the objective of increasing the efficiency of the SLP and had negative
effects on the sustainability of the revolving fund scheme. This component was added after the
education program components were already appraised.
8.    Project Sustainability. The project has a high probability of benefiting from the new core
curriculum for secondary education which will eventually be introduced into all secondary schools in the
country. The sustainability of the component supporting the Students' Loan Bureau, on the other hand,
is questionable without significant changes in the administration of the student loan program.
9.     Borrower Performance. In line with its stated educational priorities, the performance of the
Borrower in project preparation was highly satisfactory (Part I, para. 19). The MOE participated
extensively in the preparation phase and demonstrated commitment to the project. In its role as
implementing agency, the MOE complied with all major loan covenants (Part I, para. 12). The actions of
the Coordinator for the School Maintenance Committees were key in ensuring the participation of all
project schools in the training programs. Regarding the execution of civil works, however, the
Borrower's performance was poor, leading to serious implementation delays, three extensions of the
project closing date and the elimination of some works. The main reasons for this outcome were: (i)
weak management and inadequate staffing of the PIU; (ii) deficient collaborative arrangements between
MOE and EDCO; (iii) cumbersome administrative and procurement procedures; and (iv) inadequate flow
of funds through the approved budget. In addition, a high rate of turnover at the senior level in the PIU
hampered an effective dialogue between responsible agencies and with the Bank. Frequent
communication problems among the Ministry and EDCO persisted throughout project execution and
resulted in the lack of prompt follow-up on agreements reached during Bank supervision visits. With
respect to the student loan component, the SLB implemented some of the findings of the study on
improving collection efforts, but it failed to continuously review the loan eligibility criteria and to
routinely adjust interest rates charged to students thus contributing to the depreciation of the revolving
fund.
10.   Bank Performance. The Bank's performance in most stages of the project cycle was satisfactory
(Part 1, paras. 20-22). The project was well designed and consistent with the GOJ's sector strategy and
with the Bank's program for the country. Appropriate recommendations and assistance to the Borrower



iv
were provided on a timely basis through appraisal and execution. Through numerous and continuous
missions, particularly for the education and civil works components (Table 13), the Bank accurately
identified and assessed implementation problems and provided recommendations to help the MOE
addressing slowness in civil works. Despite these supervision efforts, however, the implementing
agencies did not improve performance, particularly civil works. And, although the first closing date
extension was probably justifiable due to complications arising from Hurricane Gilbert and the need to
continue the piloting of the new curriculum, the granting of the second and third extensions was less so.
It is notable that during the second and third years of extension, no disbursements were recorded for the
project. During this period, expenses were incurred by both the Bank (supervision costs) and the
Government (PIU staff costs and commitment fees) with limited effect. For the Student Loan
component, the rapid disbursement of funds (completed with the first seven months) meant that intensive
supervision of that component did not continue throughout the life of the project. As a result, the Bank
did not monitor or enforce four loan covenants on the SLB component. All other major loan covenants
were enforced (Table 10).
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
11.   Two follow-on education operations will further assist the GOJ in improving the efficiency of
the education sector in Jamaica while supporting institutional and policy reforms. The Reform of
Secondary Education (ROSE) Project (Ln. 3580-JM) is further disseminating the new curriculum into all
secondary schools; training workshops and in-service training for teachers and other education officers
are continuing under this project. In addition, the curriculum and teacher's guides are being broadened
to other subject areas such as music and physical education. The proposed Student Loan Project will
help improve the effectiveness and overall efficiency of the student loan program for tertiary education.
Specifically, the proposed project will focus on increasing the efficiency and financial sustainability of
the SLP through improved administration and collection, reduced subsidization, while improving
equitable access through better targeting of loan subsidies. A proposed Public Sector Modernization
Project will, among other things, address the procurement and contracting procedures of the Government
with specific focus on the Ministry of Local Government and Works.
12.   The Government's commitment to improve the efficiency and quality of basic education, and
simple and focused project design were two critical factors leading to the achievement of the project's
primary objective. Four key lessons, however, emerge. First, while the Ministry of Education was
effective in implementing the education components, it did not perform well in contracting or managing
civil works. Although the follow-on ROSE Project has hired three external firms to contract and manage
civil works, civil works performance has not improved significantly. Therefore, the practice of placing
the responsibility of civil works in ministries whose comparative advantage is in other areas should be
seriously considered. Second, to increase the financial sustainability and administrative efficiency of
student loan programs, significant attention should be given, and enforceable covenents included in the
Loan Agreement and monitored. Third, the complexity of government procurement procedures are
evident in this project and in other Bank-supported projects. The proposed Public Sector Modernization
Project could significantly improve the efficiency of government procurement practices. Finally, the
Bank should be extremely cautious in granting project extension requests for projects that have
experienced such difficulties. In the case of extending projects to complete civil works, limited
extensions should be considered only in cases where such activities are substantially under construction
and would not be completed otherwise.






1
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Project Objectives
I.    The Education Program Preparation and Student Loan Project (Loan 2899-JM) was conceived as
a pilot operation for reforming lower secondary education (grades 7-9). Its main focus was on preparing
and testing alternative ways of overcoming current major deficiencies of the education system in line
with tight financial constraints. Although modest in scope, the project had well-defined objectives,
namely: (i) assisting the GOJ in preparing and evaluating options for increasing efficiency in basic
education; and (ii) strengthening the Government's student loan program for higher education. These
objectives were consistent with the GOJ's stated strategy of promoting social development through
major improvements in basic education (levels 1-9). Specifically, the technical assistance package to
improve the curriculum for grades 7-9 was directly related to the core government objective of correcting
for the vast differences existing in the kind, quality, duration and accessibility of lower secondary
education.
2.    The project also sought to bring about a rationalization of resource utilization through improved
use of education inputs and various studies (e.g., unit cost study) and to mitigate the impact of economic
adjustment measures on the lower income groups (e.g. improved targeting on student loans). This
approach was concordant with the Bank's country assistance strategy of poverty alleviation and
increased efficiency in the social sectors.
3.     The project was essentially a technical assistance operation comprising five main components:
(a)    comprehensive technical assistance package including: developing and piloting a new
curricula for grades 7-9, and providing approximately 151 staff-months of specialist
services and about 191 staff-months of fellowships to strengthen selected units of the
MOE;
(b)    studies on: secondary school level reform; school administration and maintenance of the
school network; unit costs and financing of the secondary, tertiary and higher education;
and the student loan scheme;
(c)   in-service training programs for teachers, supervisors, and MOE management staff,
including the acquisition of computing equipment for the SLB and the MOE Planning
Office;
(d)    a pilot project for upgrading and consolidating about 20 small All-Age schools (grades
1-9) into larger and more efficient units, constructing four central schools, and
refurbishing 40 classrooms; and
(e)   funds to expand the student loan program for higher education for purposes of financing
tuition fees, living expenses, learning materials and transportation costs of low- and
middle-income students.



2
4.     Total project costs were distributed as follows: technical assistance and studies, US$1.7 million;
civil works, US$3.8 million; student loan program, US$3.5 million; in-service staff training US$0.1
million; furniture and equipment, US$0.4 million.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
5.     The project has achieved its primary objectives as evidenced by the successful development and
implementation of a new grade 7-9 curriculum in eleven pilot schools, exceeding the appraisal target of
five schools (Table 5). The project provided for technical assistance in developing the curriculum,
extensive teacher training, the supply of textbooks and resource materials, and the rehabilitation of 15
feeder schools and construction of 2 junior high schools. There were, however, mixed results regarding
the implementation performance and results of the different project components as described below.
6.     Technical Assistance and Training. The technical assistance and training component was the
project's major achievement. Careful preparation and efficiency in planning and management were
instrumental to the successful completion of the four studies in the areas of Secondary Education
Reform, Unit Costs, School Administration, and Student Loan Scheme (Table 7). The outcome of the
first was crucial in defining the framework for guiding the future development of secondary education.
Despite initial implementation delays resulting from budgetary constraints for the provision of resource
materials, the new curriculum is the keystone to the implementation of secondary school reform now
being introduced in a phased way at the national level.
7.    Training workshops, in-service training and fellowship programs have been successfully carried
out. The education officers for each of the subjects areas (English, Math, Science, Social Studies, and
Resource and Technology) visited each project school approximately monthly. These visits were crucial
to ensure the adoption of the new curriculum. The new grade 7-9 curriculum was introduced to the four
original pilot schools (Bath, Cedar Valley, Morant Bay and Port Morant) plus 7 additional schools. The
fellowship program was successfully implemented.
8.    Civil Works. To complete outstanding activities, the GOJ asked for, and was granted, three
extensions of the closing date. The first extension, until December 1992, was requested after Hurrican
Gilbert to facilitate completion of civil works (along with some studies and curriculum development).
The second extension, until December 1993, was to complete the introduction of the curriculum in pilot
schools and civil works. On December 28, 1993, the remaining US$1.5 million (Table 4) under the loan
was sufficient to cover the construction of one new school and the refurbishing of an All-Age School and
another one year extension was granted until December 31, 1994. Despite these extensions, the
completion rate for the refurbishing and consolidation of All-Age schools as well as for the construction
of new schools was only partially satisfactory: out of 20 feeder schools expected to be rehabilitated, only
15 were completed; of the five central schools to be built under the project, only two were finished. Of
the remaining three, two were deleted from the project, and one remained incomplete (Table 5).1 Four
main factors help explain this poor performance: (i) weak management and technical capacity of the
MOE, especially the Project Implementation Unit (PIU); (ii) poor staffing and technical skills in the
Estate Development Commission (EDCO); (iii) inadequate flow of counterpart funds; and (iv)
inefficient procurement procedures and supervision of construction activities by EDCO.
I The latter is to be finished under subsequent loan 3580-JM.



3
9.     Equipment and Furniture. All computing equipment and software were received and installed.
Staff were trained in the various software packages. All vehicles were delivered. Likewise, acquisition
and delivery of furniture were completed, despite some delays resulting from lack of compliance with
consignment schedules by the contractors.
10.    Student Loan Program. The objectives of this component were only partially achieved. Among
the factors explaining this result was the tardy inclusion of this component in the project, and was
requested by Government following the introduction of higher education fees in 1986. Important issues
related to the financial viability of the Students' Loan Fund (SLF)--i.e. future demand, interest rates, on-
lending terms, collection ratios, operating costs--were still under discussion after the original project
appraisal (December 1985). The design of the SLB component was completed almost two years later
(Table 3).
11.    The objective of replenishing the SLB's lending fund for urgently needed student loans was
achieved. By December 1988, seven months after effectiveness, the US$2.6 million from loan proceeds
allocated to that purpose was fully disbursed, concordant to appraisal estimates. As for the more general
objective of improving efficiency in the student loan system, the results were less favorable. The main
activities comprised studies on cost recovery and the financial and administrative viability of the student
loan scheme. The studies were successfully completed and partially implemented. Regarding loan
administration, during negotiations it was agreed that the SLB would implement an Action Program to
tackle the main factors contributing to the decapitalization of the revolving fund over time, namely
default rates, administrative costs and interest subsidies.2 To that effect, the SLB agreed on setting up a
program for improving collections, loan eligibility criteria and interest rates. Concerning collections,
important changes were made in recovery strategies including: assigning collection officers to specific
regions; publishing names of delinquent beneficiaries in local newspapers; engaging the services of
commercial collection agencies; and initiating legal action against beneficiaries and guarantors who fail
to respond. Through the implementation of this strategy, the default rate was reduced from 40 percent in
the late 1980s to 28 percent of loan disbursements in 1989 (appraisal target).3 Despite these
improvements, however, the SLB failed to lay out a long-term program for further improvements in
operating costs and loan eligibility criteria key to ensure sustainability. As for interest rates, the
appraisal report called for measures to adjust interest rates to keep them positive in real terms. This
agreement was never included in either the Loan or Project Agreements; and interest rates were not
adjusted on a regular basis. For example, despite the doubling of the interest rate on student loans after
1987 (from 6 percent to 12 percent fixed annual rate), it remained negative in real terms. Due to
prolonged periods of high inflation, high interest subsidies were a major contributor to the
decapitalization of loan funds.
12.    Special Loan and Project Covenants. Among the most important Loan Agreement (LA) and
covenants expected to promote the project's objective of improving basic education were: (i) the
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) with direct administrative responsibility for the
project, and of appointing a coordinator and an educator in that Unit ( LA. 3.01d); (ii) the creation of a
Technical Advisory Committee and a Review Committee (LA. 3.02a); and, (iii) the establishment of
2 Project Agreement: Schedule 1.
3  In 1985, interest payments in arrears amounted to 22.7% of total principal outstanding (excluding capitalized
interest). Of 15,650 loans in the repayment stage, 6,423 accounts (41%) were in arrears. Collection rates during
the first four months of CY1989 were 31 percent over the same period in CY1988.



4
Maintenance Committees (LA. 3.06). As shown in Table 10, compliance with these covenants was
satisfactory. Regarding the objective of strengthening the Government's student loan program for higher
education, the main Loan and Project Agreements (PA) and covenants were: (i) the Government's
promise to improve loan recovery, including legislation and administrative actions. To that effect, the
GOJ was to submit to the Bank a program for the implementation of the studies to be carried out on the
subject (LA. 3.07b); (ii) the SLB's commitment of fumishing to the Bank annual reviews of students
eligibility criteria, and interest rates applied to loans (PA2.04i); and (iii) the SLB's agreement of
providing to the Bank annual reports on operating costs (capital and recurrent), including costs of
subsidization, administration and non-performing loans ( PA. 2.04 ii). Despite their impact on the
sustainability of the SLB's scheme, compliance with covenants 2.04i and 2.04ii was never assessed
during project implementation (para. 20).
C.    Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation
13.   Delays in implementation were mostly due to macro-economic and institutional factors.
Institutional problems related to weak managerial and technical capacity of the MOE contributed to
important delays in the civil works component. Communications problems at the ministry level,
inadequate staffing and technical skills in the MOE and EDCO, and lack of coordination, remained key
issues throughout the implementation phase. In addition, the occurrence of Hurricane Gilbert in
September 1988 produced several adverse fiscal consequences affecting disbursements and thus the
construction schedule of the feeder schools. The financial effect of the disaster, which damaged more
than 900 schools, led to an increase in the cost of labor and materials of about 47 percent of original
contract amounts. As a result, two of the central schools were canceled, and completion of the remaining
schools was rescheduled with estimated cost increase of about 31 percent above pre-hurricane estimates.
The total cost overrun in all civil works was about 12 - 18 percent above pre-disaster estimates. These
numbers, however, remained within the SAR estimates, including contingencies.
14.   Factors Subject to Government Control. Macro-economic factors and conditions, such as high
inflation rates and growing financial constraints, were key factors under the GOJ's control that affected
the pace of project implementation. In addition, cumbersome budgetary procedures between the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MOE and the requirement for submission of contracts above certain
thresholds to Cabinet for approval, created acute problems for commitments and contract signatures.4
The resulting uncertainty hampered the flow of local funds through the approved budget, slowing the
implementation of civil works.
15.   Factors Subject to Implementing Agency ControL Responsibility for coordination of overall
project implementation was vested in an existing project implementation unit (PIU) in the MOE. An
Advisory Committee was to provide support to the PIU for technical matters, and an interagency Review
Committee was to take lead responsibility for the preparation of the Government's secondary school
reform program. Day-to-day implementation of the civil works component was subcontracted to
EDCO, a design and construction management agency. The School Operations Division of the MOE
managed the execution of the school administration study, and the Planning Unit of MOE oversaw the
4 Because of the MOF budgetary allocation system (estimated on a quarterly and sectoral basis) and of
uncertainty regarding the amount and timing of the allocations due to meeting IMF expenditure targets, the
MOE was reluctant to commit and proceed with project expenditures.



5
unit cost study, and the student loan study was managed by the Student Loan Bureau--a semi-
autonomous statutory body.
16.   Despite the critical role played by the MOE in project administration, its management capacity,
staffing, and remuneration of key personnel remained a major concern throughout project preparation
and implementation. Notwithstanding government efforts to strengthen its capacity, and repeated Bank
recommendations for staff and post level improvements during project implementation, the management
and executing capacity of the MOE remained inadequate, resulting in poor communication, coordination
and supervision during project implementation. To compound the problem, the performance of EDCO
fell notably short in several contractor pre-qualification exercises and in the supervision of construction
activities. EDCO's unwillingness to take the necessary steps to implement improvements in its pre-
qualification procedures, tender exercises, supervision and final inspections led to significant time
overruns, and prompted the GOJ requests for three extensions of the project closing dates, and the
elimination of some works. Efforts by the MOE to take on a more aggressive management role with
regard to civil works were hampered when EDCO ceased its operation in June 1993. The National
Housing Corporation (NHC), which merged with EDCO, assumed responsibility for the management of
construction activities in September 1993, though the rate of civil works implementation did not improve
significantly.
D.    Project Sustainability
17.   The project has a high probability of maintaining the achievements of the Technical Assistance
and Training component. Considering the GOJ's strong commitment to introduce improvements in the
sector and the wide acceptance and success of the new core curriculum developed under the project, the
political viability of measures to sustain the project's achievements is highly likely. Furthermore, a
program of national reform of secondary education is being financed by the Bank under the Reform of
Secondary Education (ROSE) Project. This reform will eventually involve expanding the new
curriculum to all secondary schools in the country. The efficacy of the reform program in both the short
and the long run will depend on the effective introduction of the new curriculum, including teacher
training, textbooks, civil works, and resource materials, in a timely and coordinated manner. The
effectiveness and sustainability of the teacher training program will depend on the ability of the
government to retain teachers at attractive salary levels, commensurate with increased training and
qualifications.
18.   On the other hand, the sustainability of the Student Loan Program is highly unlikely. Major
reforms of the SLB's system must be implemented in order to maintain the revolving nature of the
scheme. Interest subsidies, default rates and administrative costs are the three crucial factors
determining the sustainability of the student loan program.
F.    Borrower Performance
19.   In line with its stated educational priorities, the performance of the Borrower in project
preparation was highly satisfactory. The MOE participated extensively in the preparation phase and
demonstrated commitment to the project. In its role as implementing agency, the MOE complied with
all major loan covenants (Table 10). The actions of the Coordinator for the School Maintenance
Committees were key in ensuring the participation of all project schools in the training programs.



6
Regarding the execution of civil works, however, the Borrower was unable to overcome the numerous
difficulties caused by the institutional weakness of the MOE, the high turnover rate of its key project
staff, and the general lack of coordination with EDCO (Table ID). The main reasons for this outcome
were: (i) weak management and inadequate staffing of MOE; (ii) deficient collaborative arrangements
between MOE and EDCO; (iii) cumbersome administrative and procurement procedures; and (iv)
inadequate flow of funds through the approved budget. These difficulties hampered a continuing
dialogue and close follow up of project execution among responsible agencies and with the Bank.
Despite some efforts by the MOE to follow Bank recommendations, frequent communication problems
among the Ministry and EDCO persisted throughout project execution. With respect to the student loan
component, the SLB implemented some of the findings of the study on improving collection efforts, but
it failed to continuously review the loan eligibility criteria and to routinely adjust interest rates charged to
students thus contributing to the depreciation of the revolving fund
E.    Bank Performance
20.   The Bank's performance in most stages of the project cycle was satisfactory (Table IC). The
Bank team designed a project that succeeded in catalyzing improvements in education bringing about a
rationalization of the sector strategy, in particular of basic education, concordant to the Government's
budgetary austerity. The GOJ had a strong commitment to introduce improvements in education and the
project was part of the medium-tern development strategy agreed with the Bank. The risks and benefits
of the loan were properly appraised, although expected improvements in the management and executing
capacity of the PIU did not materialize. Most important loan covenants were monitored during
supervision (Table 10).
21.   The project management capacity of the MOE with respect to civil works was a concern of both
the Bank and the Ministry throughout project preparation. During implementation and through
numerous and continuous missions (Table 13), the Bank attempted to help the GOJ in solving critical
managerial and administrative problems in the MOE (particularly in the PIU) and EDCO. These
attempts, notwithstanding, the Bank did not succeed in its efforts to induce a more aggressive
management role in the MOE with regard to civil works. The missions provided accurate assessments of
implementation progress and problems and facilitated timely recommendations to help the GOJ address
slowness in civil works. Despite these supervision efforts, however, the implementing agencies did not
improve performance, particularly with respect to the execution of civil works. And, although the first
closing date extension was probably justifiable due to complications arising from Hurricane Gilbert and
the need to continue the piloting of the new curriculum, the granting of the second and third extensions
was less so. It is notable that during the second and third years of extension, no disbursements were
recorded for the project (see Figure below). During this period, expenses were incurred by both the Bank
(supervision costs) and the Government (PIU staff costs and commitment fees) with limited effect.



7
Disbursements by CY (as % of loan
amount)
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995Cancelled
22.   The Bank urged institutional changes and improvements within the Student Loan Bureau (SLB).
As condition for disbursement of the SLB component, a program of lending, loan administration and
recovery for the first year was agreed upon with the Bank. Some of these conditions were reached prior
to negotiations (i.e., the SLB introduced new procedural guidelines for loan appraisal, disbursement and
collections, and a range of aggressive collection strategies). Implementation progress was adequately
reported, although, and due to the rapid disbursement of funds to the student loan program, the amount of
supervision devoted to this sub-component was relatively small and diminished rapidly after
disbursements were completed seven months after loan effectiveness. This is reflected in the lack of
attention devoted to four important Project Agreement covenants related to the SLB which had
substantial impact on the sustainability of the student loan program (Table 10). Furthermore, an
agreement contained in the appraisal report on interest rates was not included as loan covenant.5
G.    Assessment of Project Outcome
23.    The overall project results were satisfactory. The project successfully achieved its main
objective, namely assisting the GOJ to prepare and evaluate options for developing a secondary
education reform program. The introduction of the new curriculum achieved and exceeded its appraisal
targets, and the attempt to expand it in other schools at the national level is highly likely to yield
substantial development results. Likewise, the training program surpassed appraisal expectations and is
expected to continue with equivalent results.
H.    Future Operations
24.   In view of the success of the adoption of the new curriculum and the experience gained in the
various project schools, the plan for the project's future operation should concentrate on dissemination
and training to facilitate the incorporation of all secondary schools into the program. In this regard, the
ROSE Project supported by the Bank will greatly facilitate the process by supporting technical and
institutional arrangements to ensure effective implementation of the reform of secondary education at the
national level. Training workshops and in-service training for teachers and other education officers have
5  SAR 2.13 (a). "Interest rates would, at a minimum, remain positive in real terms and would tend, over the long
run, to cover the normal costs of operations."



8
continued. In addition, there are plans to broaden the curriculum and teacher's guides to other subject
areas, such as music and physical education.
25.   With respect to the SLB's scheme, it is expected that the experience gained in this project will
assist in the preparation of a proposed Student Loan Project to be financed by the Bank. Specifically, the
new project will focus on the restructuring of the Student Loan Bureau, increasing the financial
sustainability and administrative efficiency of the SLF through a consolidated student loan scheme, and
ensuring adequate financing options for low-income students. The sustainability of the Student Loan
Program will need to be further strengthened by improved loan targeting, collection and financing
options.
26.   Finally, the Bank is preparing a proposed Public Sector Modernization Project which will,
among other things, strengthen government procurement by institutionalizing sound procurement and
contract management practices throughout the government. It will also strengthen the Ministry of Local
Government and Works which is responsible for managing major capital expenditures.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
27.   Two critical factors explain the achievement of the project's primary objective: (i) the
Government's commitment to improve the efficiency and quality of basic education, and (ii) simple and
focused project design. As for implementation shortcomings, most of the difficulties resulted from weak
institutional and bureaucratic arrangements, protracted administrative and procurement procedures, and
delays in releasing counterpart funds.
28.   The most significant lessons learned from the implementation experience of this project are:
(a) Although the Ministry of Education was effective in implementing the education
components, it did not perform well in contracting or managing civil works. While the follow-
on ROSE Project has brought on three external firms to contract and manage civil works, civil
works performance has not improved significantly. Therefore, the practice of placing the
responsibility of civil works in ministries whose comparative advantage is in other areas should
be seriously considered.
(b) To increase the financial sustainability and administrative efficiency of student loan
programs, significant attention should be given, and enforceable covenents included in the Loan
Agreement and monitored.
(c) The complexity of government procurement procedures are evident in this project and in
other Bank-supported projects. The proposed Public Sector Modernization Project could
significantly improve the efficiency of government procurement practices.
(d) The Bank should be extremely cautious in granting project extension requests for projects
that have experienced such difficulties. In the case of extending projects to complete civil
works, limited extensions should be considered only in cases where such activities are
substantially under construction and would not be completed otherwise.



9
PART HI - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



l0
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Subaintial    Partial   Ncgl*igble    N/Applicable
Macro policies                   C                        LI 0 F
Sector policies                PI                        L             LI
Financial objectives            EI          LI           [-7           LI
Institutional development      LI           El           LI            LI
Physical objectives            LI           El           L             LI
Poverty reduction                I           O           O             E1
Gender issues                  [            LI           [             El
Other social objectives                     LI           L             I]
Environmental objectives       ,L                        El            El
Public sector management       LI           Li 0                       L
Private sector development      C           LI           LI            El
B. Project Sustainabilit             Ukely               Unlikely             Uncertain
Technical Assistance & Training    i}                    L                    L
Student Loan Program               LI                    El                   LI



II
(continued)
Table 1. Summary of Assessments (cont.)
C. Bank performan           Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory Deficient
Identification                   1                [j]               []
Preparation assistance          [|                                  Li]
Appraisal                       []                [] 
Supervision                     []                E]                3
D. Borrower performance   Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                     El                 D]                I]
Implementation                  n                   l                D]
Technical assistance         []
Civil works
Student Loan                                                       /Il
Covenant compliance             []                Fl                 D
Highly                                         Highly
E. Assessment of outcome     satisfactory  Satosfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
n              El              L]               I



12
Table 2. Related Bank Loans
Loan title                Purpose            Date of approval |      Status
Preceding operations
1. First Education Project   Supporting development     09/20/66      Completed. PCR
(Ln. 468-JM).          and rehabilitation of                        date: 03/04/75.
secondary and tertiary
education.
2. Second Education      Supporting development         03/02/71      Completed. PCR
Project (Ln. 727-JM).    and rehabilitation of                      date: 06/30/81.
secondary education.
3. Third Education Project  Supporting expansion and    12/15/81      Completed. One
(Ln. 2070-JM).         qualitative improvements                     year extension to
of selective technical and                   June 30, 1988.
vocational education and
training systems to meet
changing labor market
requirements (HEART
Program).
4. Social Sector         Supporting qualitative         07/11/89      Ongoing
Development Project    improvements in the
(Ln. 3111 -JM).        delivery and management
of pre-primary and primary
education.
Following operations
5. Reform of Secondary   Supporting a program of        03/25/93      Ongoing
Education (ROSE)       national reform of
Project (Ln. 3580-JM)    secondary education to
improve efficiency in the
delivery and management
of education services..
6. Proposed Student Loan   Supporting efforts at                      Under preparation
Project                improving the effectiveness
and overall efficiency of
the Student Loan Program
I(SLP) for tertiary education



13
Table 3. Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Date planned         Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  April 1985              April 1985
Preparation                              June 1985                  August 1985
Appraisal                                July 1985                  December 1985 '
Negotiations                             November 1987              November 17-19, 1987
Board presentation                       January 1988               January 12, 1988
Signing                                  February 1988              February 10, 1988
Effectiveness                            May 1988                   May 10, 1988
Project completion                       June 30, 1991              December31, 1994
Loan closing                             December 31, 1991          March 14, 1995
l Final Appraisal of the Student Loan Component completed November 1987.
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions equivalent)
FY 88     FY 89      FY 90     FY 91      FY 92     FY 93      FY 94      FY 95
Appraisal            0.9       4.7        7.5        8.3
estimate
Actual               0.0       4.0        5.2        5.9       6.2        6.7       6.7        7.0
Actual as % of       0%        85%       69%        71%        75%       81%        81%       84%
estimate
Final             03/14/95
disbursement



14
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators           Estimated                        Actual
1. Technical assistance &      460 participants               460 participants
training                    151 staff-month of specialist   164 staff-months of specialist
In service training program  services &                    services
Fellowships                 191 staff-months of fellowships.  & 191 staff-months of
fellowships.
Studies                     4 studies                      4 studies completed
New grade 7-9 curriculum    4 pilot schools                 11 schools
2. Students' Loan Fund         US$2.6 million to expand the   US$2.6 million disbursed
loan program
3. Civil Works
New construction             5 Central Schools              2 completed, 2 deleted, 1
unfinished
Upgrading and consolidation    20 small all-age schools     15 completed
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. No indicators for project operations were
defined in the SAR. They were not required as standard
procedure at the time of project appraisal.
2. No future operation indicators have been
defined at project completion.



Is
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at        Status             Impact of study
appraisal
1. School             Complement the MOE
Administration and    study on
School Maintenance    decentralization under      Completed        Partial
the Administrative
Reform Program; and
identify mechanisms to
improve maintenance of
school network.
2. Reform of          Evaluate financial                           Substantial. Its
Secondary          feasibility of alternative  Completed        recommendations were
Education          secondary education                          crucial to defining the
reforms.                                    framework for guiding
future reform of
secondary education in
the country.
3. Unit Costs         Determine unit costs,
components of costs,       Completed        Negligible
and financing costs of
secondary and higher
education
4. Student Loan       Strengthen the bases for
Scheme                cost-recovery policies,     Completed        Partial
and determine the needs
for increased student
loans and appropriate
loan terms.



16
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate               Actual estimate
Item                       (US$ million)                   (US$ million)*
Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign     Total
1. Works                          2.9        1.9        4.8       n/a        n/a        5.1
2. Furniture and Equipment        .1         .4         .5         n/a       n/a        .7
3. Technical Assistance and       .5         1.8        2.3        n/a       n/a        1.7
Studies
4. Student Loan                   3.5        0.0        3.5        3.5       0.0        3.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                7.0        4.1        I1.1       n/a       n/a        n/a
Table 8 B. Project Financing
Appraisal estimate              Actual estimate -
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)_   _
Local    Foreign [  Total       Local    Foreign     Total
IBRD                  4.2         4.1       8.3       n/a        n/a        7.0
Government               2.8        0.0        2.8       4.0        n/a        4.0
Total                 7.0        4.1       11.1       7.0        n/a       11.0
a Unable to determine breakdown between actual local vs. foreign costs.
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return (ERR) was
calculated at appraisal. The benefits from
the project were expressed in terms of its
support to a sector development strategy and
investment program, to increase efficiency
and cost-effectiveness in the education
system.



17
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant  Present    Original              Description of Covenant             Comments
Section    Type     Status   Fulfillment
Date
Loan Agreement
The Borrower to maintain, until de completion of
3.01 (d)    I         C     not specified  the Project, an existing project implementation
unit (PIU) in the MOE, in charge of the
implementation of the MOE Sub-project, with
staffing, functions and organizational structure
satisfactory to the Bank
3.02 (a)    1         C     not specified  The Borrower to establish and maintain a technical
advisory committee and a review committee, each
with participating entities, and organizational
structure satisfactory to the Bank.
3.02 (b)    I         C     not specified  The Borrower to appoint a project coordinator and
an educator to PIU, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank
3.04       1        C      not specified  The Borrower to entrust EDCO with the
responsibility of preparing designs and bidding
documents, and supervising the civil works under
Parts A and B.
3.05       2        C      Starting     The Borrower to furnish to the Bank, twice a year,
08/31/88     an evaluation of project implementation progress.
3.06       3       CD    12/31/88       The Borrower to establish school maintenance
committees in all schools included under the
Project.
3.07 (a)    4         C     06/30/90     The Borrower to submit to the Bank for review,
the conclusions of the studies under Part C of the
Project.
3.07 (b)    5         C     12/31/90     The Borrower to submit to the Bank a program for



18
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant  Present        Original                  Description of Covenant                    Comments
Section     Type       Status    Fulfillment
Date
the implementation of recommendations of the
studies under Part C.
3.09           5          C       not specified   The Borrower to take all action as necessary,
including enactment of legislation, for improving
the recovery of loans made by the SLB.
4.01           6          C       not specified   The Borrower to fulfill auditing, special account
(a-c)                                           I and reporting requirements.
Project Agreement
2.04        n/a                 not specified   SLP to present: (i) a program for improving the      Component
(i) (ii)                                        recover of student loans; (ii) its estimates of      was rapidly
operating costs (capital and recurrent), including   disbursed and
costs of subsidization, administration and non-      not fully
performing loans; (iii) a plan of action for the     supervised
implementation of the recommendations of the         thereafter.
study on the SLB's student loan scheme; and (iv)
the eligibility criteria for selecting the
beneficiaries of credits at the higher education
______ ______ level.
Covenant Types                                                  Present Status
I =       Implementation arrangements                                      C  =   covenant complied with
2 =        Monitoringtreviews                                              CD =   complied with after delay
3 =        Facilities maintenance                                           CP =   complied with partially
4 =        Studies/technical assistance                                    NC =  not complied with
5 =        Sector policy
6 =        Accounts/audits



19
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was compliance with all pertinent Bank
Operational Manual Statements throughout the project
cycle.
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project     Planned               Revised               Actual
cycle                                                                     l
Weeks      US$       Weeks   US$(000)   Weeks   US$(000)
=___ ____ ___  ___(000)
Through           n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a      100.8       n/a
appraisal      _          _                   l_l
Appraisal-        n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a        5.5       n/a
Board                              l
Board-            n/a        n/a        n/a        n/a        4.1       n/a
effectiveness
Supervision       50.0      29.5       51.1       27.2       42.1        8.2
Completion         6.0        9.0       n/a        n/a        8.0       12.0
Report                              I         I          I          I          I
TOTAL             n/a        n/a        n/a       n/a       194.1       n/a



20
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month/    Number   Days  Specialized          Performance rating      Type of
project cycle   year        of        in   staff skills                             problem
persons    field  represented*
Implement    Develop
status     objectives
Through         07/85                        MSP; SFM;
appraisal                                    ARC; ECN;
EDC; DOF;
PSP.
Appraisal-       11/87
Board
Board-          05/88
effectiveness
Supervision      4/88         1     _           EDC             1            1
8/88        1         |       EDC             1            1   I
12/88        1                 EDC
5/89        1                 EDC             1             1
6/89        1                 ARC            n.a.         n.a.
10/89        1                 ECN             1            1
2/90       3               ECN; DOF;          1            1
ARC
6/90        3               ECN; EDC;         1             1
ARC
11/90        1                 ECN             1            1
3/91       5               ECN; DOF;          1            1
PSP; ARC
8/91        1                 ECN             1            1
3/92        2               ECN; ARC          2             1        F; P
7/92        3               ECN; ARC          2             1          F
5/93        2               ECN; ARC          2             I
1/94       2                ECN; ARC          2            1
Completion       03/95
* MSP =; SFM   ; ARC  Architect; ECN = Economist; EDC = Education Specialist
DOF = Disbursement Officer; PSP = Procurement Specialist
Problem (ranking 3 or 4): P= Procurement; I/M = Institutional and managerial; F = Financial.



21
PART III - EVALUATION OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
Social Objectives.
1.    The project sought to alleviate Poverty through major improvements in basic education--a
core Government's initiative, to correct for the vast differences existing in the kind, quality, and
duration of schooling available to individuals. With the successful implementation of its
technical assistance component, the project attained this important social development objective
affecting students from lower income levels. The project also set the basis for potential areas for
future Bank support to the Government's broader strategy for reform and rehabilitation in the
social sectors.


















