Page  1
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2899 JM
                         Project Agreement
                  (Education Program Preparation
                     and Student Loan Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                       STUDENTS' LOAN BUREAU
                      Date February 10, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2899 JM
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STUDENTS'
LOAN BUREAU (the SLB).
      WHEREAS     (A)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Jamaica (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million three hundred thousand dollars
($8,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but oily on condition that the SLB agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      (B)   by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the SLB, the proceeds of the loan provided for carrying
out Part D of the Project will be made available to the SLB on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the SLB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01.     Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01.     (a)   The SLB declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out Part D of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, and educational practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying
out of Part D of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the SLB shall carry out Part D of the Project in
accordance with the SLB Regulation and the Annual Programs.
      (c)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the SLB shall furnish to the Bank, for its approval,
not later than September 30 of each year, the SLB's program for
providing credits under Part D.1 of the Project for the following
year and for collecting outstanding loans, including arrears, during
the following year, such program to be in such detail and scope as
the Bark shall reasonably request.
      Section 2.02.     The SLB shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules and records and reports, respectively) in respect of
the Project Agreement and Part D of the Project.
      Section 2.03.     The SLB shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.  Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the SLB shall not. take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 2.04.     Without limitation to other provisions of
this Agreement, the SLB shall, except as otherwise agreed by the
Bank: (i) carry out the actions described in the Plan of Action in
accordance with its terms and in accordance with the timetable set
forth therein; and (ii) not later than September 30 of each year
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress of implementing the Plan of Action.
      Section 2.05.     (a)   The SLB shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Part D of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Page  3
Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   The SLB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part
D of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by the SLB of its obligations under this Agreement
and the Subsidiary Agreement.
      Section 2.06.     (a)   The SLB shall, not later than November
30 of each year, exchange views with the Bank on the eligibility
criteria for selecting the beneficiaries of the credits under Part
D of the Project and on the interest rate applied to such credits.
      (b)   Promptly after such exchange of views, the SLB shall
take all action as shall be necessary, including amendments to the
SLB Regulation, to put into effect the recommendations made by the
Bank as a result of the exchange of views mentioned in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.07.     Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods required for Part D of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
               Management and Operations of the SLB
      Section 3.01.     The SLB shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and educational practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02.     Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
SLB shall not amend, suspend, or abrogate the SLB Regulation or any
provision thereof.
      Section 3.03.     The SLB shall take all action necessary on
its part to implement the recommendations of the study under Part C
(d) of the Project, such implementation to be in accordance with the
program referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
      Section 3.04.     The SLB shall: (a) not later than April 30,
1989, furnish to the Bank for its comments a program for improving
the recovery of loans made by the SLB; and (b) promptly thereafter,
put into effect such program, modified as needed to take into
account the comments made by the Bank thereon.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01.     (a)   The SLB shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   The SLB shall:
           (i)    have its accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and
                  expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited,
Page  4
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said accounts and financial statements
                  as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
                  the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan  Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the SLB shall:
           (i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, separate records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
          (iv)    ensure that such separate accounts are included
                  in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
                  of this Section and that the report thereof
                  contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                  the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn in respect of
                  such expenditures were used for the Purposes for
                  which they were provided.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01.     This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02.     This Agreement and all obligations of':the
Bank and of the S.B thereunder shall terminate on the date @on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify the SLB thereof.
      Section 5.03.     All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01.     Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request.  The
addresses so specified are:
For  the  Bank:
Page  5
      International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
      1818 H Street, N.W.
      Washington, D.C. 20433
      United States of America
      Cable address:                Telex:
            INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
            Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                          64145  (WUI)
For the  SLB:
      12 Ocean Boulevard
      Block  4
      UDC Building
      Kingston Mall
      Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:                      Telex:
      RESERVE                             2165
      Kingston                            2167
                                          2173  for SLB
With copy   to:
      Financial Secretary
      Ministry of Finance and
            Planning
      30 National Heroes Circle
      Kingston
      Jamaica
Cable address:                      Telex:
      MINFIN                              2447 FINANCE
      Kingston
      Section 6.02.     Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the SLB may be taken or executed by the
Chairman of the SLB or such other person or persons as the Students'
Loan Council shall designate in writing, and the SLB shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03.     This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              By
                                          Regional Vice  President
                                    Latin America and the  Caribbean
                              STUDENTS' LOAN BUREAU
Page  6
                              By
                                          Authorized  Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                          Plan of Action
                                            Date by Which
      Action to be Taken                    To be Completed
The SLB shall present the program for       April 30, 1989
improving the recovery of loans made
by the SLB
The SLB shall present its estimates         September 30
of operating costs (capital and             of each calendar
recurrent), including costs of              year, beginning
subsidization,  administration              September 30, 1988
and non-performing loans
The SLB shall present a plan of             June 30, 1989
action for the  implementation
of the recommendations of  the
study under Part C (d) of  the
Project
The SLB shall present the eligibility       November 30
criteria for selecting the                  of each calendar
beneficiaries of the credits under          year, beginning
Part D of the Project and on the            November 30, 1988
interest rate applied to  such credits
