Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2906 CY
              (Transport Sector Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated May 6, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2906 CY
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS (the
Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR   RECONSTRUCTION  AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MCW" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry of Communications
and Works;
     (c)  "LIA" means Larnaca International Airport;
     (d)  "TSPPM Unit"  means  the  Transport  Sector Planning and
Project Monitoring  Unit,  established  pursuant  to letter number
102/8613 from the Director General  of MCW to the Director General
of the Borrower's Planning Bureau,  dated  August 20, 1987, and to
be  maintained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.02  (a)  of  this
Agreement;
     (e)  "Project Unit" means  the  Project  Unit established and
operating  pursuant  to  Section   3.01   (b)  of  Loan  Agreement
No. 2128-CY dated June 8,  1982  between the Borrower and the Bank
for the Third Highway Project,  and to be maintained in accordance
with Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (f)  "PWD" means the public works department within MCW; and
     (g)  "CPA" means Cyprus Ports Authority.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to thirty-five
million dollars ($35,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Page  3
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MCW with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate engineering,  administrative  and financial practices,
all in accordance  with  an  action  plan  agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank, and  shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 3.03. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  furnish to the Bank:
(i) for its review and comment  not  later than October 31 of each
year until the completion  of  the Project, proposed recurrent and
development  budget  for  the  following  calendar  year  for  the
Borrower's Transport Development Plan; and (ii) for its review and
approval, not later than July 31 of each year until the completion
of the Project, a list  of road sections proposed for construction
or rehabilitation and pavement strengthening under Parts A.2 and 3
of the Project, respectively, in said following calendar year.
     (b)  The Borrower shall include  in  such  list only works on
road sections which, on  the  basis  of criteria and a methodology
acceptable to the  Bank,  show,  for  each  such  road section, an
expected overall economic rate of  return  of  at least 12%  and a
first year economic rate of return of at least 10%.
     Section 3.04. In order to carry  out Part E.3 of the Project,
the  Borrower  shall  cause   its  interministerial  committee  on
procurement, established on October 8, 1987 under the chairmanship
of the Borrower's Accountant General,  to carry out an exploratory
review  of  the  Borrower's  procurement  procedures  and  to make
recommendations for improvements of such procedures.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain the TSPPM Unit
with the staffing and responsibilities  set forth in Schedule 6 to
this  Agreement,  and  (b)  maintain  the  Project  Unit  with the
staffing and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Nicosia
          Cyprus
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               MINFINANCE                      3399
               Nicosia
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
                   By /s/ Andrew Jacovides
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Eugenio Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
Page  6
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works
     (a)  Dhekelia-            7,000,000 )
          Aradhipou-                     )
          LIA road                       )      45%
                                         )
     (b)  all other           12,500,000 )
          roads
(2)  Pavement                  5,000,000        55%
     strengthening
(3)  Classroom and               500,000        70%
     Laboratory
     buildings
(4)  Equipment                 1,000,000        100% of foreign
     for highway                                expenditures,
     management,                                100% of local
     research and                               expenditures,
     training                                   (ex-factory
                                                cost), and 80%
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)  Technical                 3,000,000        80%
     assistance and
     fellowships
(6)  Unallocated               6,000,000
                               _________
     TOTAL                    35,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made  in  respect  of:  (a) payments made for
expenditures  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement;  and  (b)
expenditures  under  Categories  (1)  (b)  and  (2), respectively,
before the Bank has approved the road sections, in accordance with
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are:  (a) to support planned
development of the Borrower's  transport  sector by supporting the
Borrower's  1988-1991  Transport  Development  Plan;  and  (b)  to
strengthen the financial basis  of  that sector, improve transport
planning  and  project  implementation  capacity,  and  to upgrade
priority areas of the transport infrastructure and industry.
Page  7
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Highways
1.   Construction of a bypass road  from Dhekelia via Aradhipou to
LIA of about 23 km.
2.   Construction  and  improvement  of  about  150  km  of  roads
selected  in  accordance   with   the   criteria  referred  to  in
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
3.   Rehabilitation and pavement strengthening  of about 150 km of
roads selected in  accordance  with  the  criteria  referred to in
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
4.   Construction  and  equipping  of   a  PWD  central  materials
laboratory at Nicosia.
5.   Provision of equipment, services and other works for improved
highway management and development.
Part B:   Road Transport
1.   Rationalization of private bus services and the establishment
of regional bus companies.
2.   Provision of loans to regional bus companies for the purchase
of new buses.
3.   Provision of technical  assistance  to regional bus companies
in operating and management procedures.
Part C:   Civil Aviation
1.   Carrying out of  a  study  of  possible  improvements to LIA,
including a new  terminal  and  administrative buildings, and cost
recovery, staffing and operations policies.
2.   Construction   and   equipping   of   a   new   terminal  and
administrative buildings for LIA.
3.   Provision of airport  management  and  operations training to
senior airport staff and design  of a general training program for
junior and manual airport staff.
Part D:   Ports
1.   Restructuring of tariffs charged by CPA to ports users.
2.   Restructuring  of  the   operations   of  Limassol  Port  and
provision of equipment to improve its efficiency and international
competitiveness.
Part E:   Institutional Improvements and Training
1.   Improvement of the Borrower's vehicle licensing system.
2.   Strengthening the Borrower management, operating and planning
capacity of the transport sector  through the establishment of the
TSPPM Unit.
3.   Improvement of the Borrower's procurement practices.
4.   Broadening of the curriculum  of the Nicosia Higher Technical
Institute's training  program  for  higher  level  technicians and
engineers  to  include:  (a)   bituminous   mix  design  and  use;
(b)  principles  of  traffic  engineering  and  traffic surveying;
(c) contract management  and  supervision; (d) pavement management
systems; and (e) road maintenance techniques.
Page  8
5.   Construction and  equipping  of  a  classroom  and a teaching
laboratory at the Nicosia Higher Technical Institute.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 1991
     through   October 15, 2002                      1,460,000
On April 15, 2003                                    1,420,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
Page  9
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for construction and
improvement of roads shall be combined in bid packages which group
the works geographically.
3.   Bidders for the  construction  and improvement works included
in Part  A.1  and  2  of  the  Project  shall  be  prequalified as
described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in part A.1  of  this  Schedule, goods manufacturered in
the Republic of Cyprus may  be  granted  a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and  paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works under Part A.2  of  the  Project estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $1,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be procured
under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
2.   Works under Parts A.3, A.4  and  E.5    of the Project may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Equipment under Parts A.4 and E.5 of the Project estimated to
cost less than the equivalent  of  $75,000  per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  the equivalent of $400,000, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
from  at  least  three  different  countries  eligible  under  the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in  Part  A.3  of  this  Schedule,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  10
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order  to  assist  the  Borrower  in  carrying  out of the
Project, the Borrower  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible   Categories"  means  Categories  1
through 5 set forth in the  table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $2,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
Page  11
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Autho-
               rized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 6
               Transport Sector Planning and Project
                          Monitoring Unit
I.   Staffing
     The  TSPPM  Unit  will  be  staffed  with  four  professional
members, of which one will be designated as Unit Head, and support
staff in adequate numbers.
     The expertise of the  four  members  will be in the following
fields:
     (a)  both general development economics and transport studies
          and operations.
     (b)  all aspects of transport  survey work and computer based
          information systems.
     (c)  sectoral, financial and feasibility  studies in both the
Page  12
          public and private sectors.
     (d)  all  aspects  of  civil  engineering  works  related  to
          transport  but  with  special  knowledge  of  roads  and
          traffic engineering.
II.  Consultants
     The TSPPM Unit  will  initially  be  assisted by consultants,
whose qualifications, experience and  terms  of reference shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, to be employed by May 31, 1988.
III. Responsibilities
     The responsibilities of the TSPPM Unit will include:
     (a)  coordination and monitoring  of  medium  term (less than
ten years) planning studies  based  upon  a review of existing and
proposed transport capacity and  forecast  demand for transport in
Cyprus by all modes to  provide a planning framework for transport
sector investment, maintenance and  management  policy in both the
public  and  private  sectors;   this   work  shall  initially  be
undertaken in  conjunction  with  the  Borrower's Transport Sector
Master Plan study currently under preparation;
     (b)  coordination of  the  preparation  of indicative rolling
five year transport development, maintenance and management plans,
relating to resource  needs  and  resource availability, including
the status of skills availability;
     (c)  coordination of sector  annual budget proposals prepared
by the Borrower's transport agencies such as MWC's Road Department
and Civil Aviation  Department  and  coordinating these with other
agencies such as  the  Cyprus  Ports  Authority and the Borrower's
municipal and district  authorities  for all transport development
and maintenance;
     (d)  undertaking or supervising  special studies on transport
related issues and projects which cover more than one sector;
     (e)  overall monitoring of  the implementation of development
and maintenance  programs  for  all  modes  of  transport  and the
reporting of this  on  a  regular  basis;  this should include the
identification  of  problem  areas  and  recommendations regarding
remedies; and
     (f)  the coordination of  the  activities relating to design,
establishment and operation of  a central data collection, storage
and retrieval system covering all transport sub-sectors including,
but not limited to  traffic,  project descriptions and scheduling,
expenditures and revenues, employment, transport costs and prices,
transport enterprises and highway safety.
