Document,of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7555-CD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED FIFTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC V)
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.6 MILLION
(US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
February 13, 2003
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00          =      CFAF 625.12 (December 315t, 2002)
SDR 1.00                 US$ 1.35143 (December 31", 2002)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                     African Development Bank
CCL                      Comite de Coordination Local
CNR                      Comite National de Rdinsertion
CCSRP                    College de Contr6le et de Surveillance des Ressources Petroli&es
CESRAP                   Cellule technique chargee de la Reforme de lAdministration Publique
DGMP                     Direction Generale des Marchds Publics
DHS                      Division Huilerie Savonnerie
DPR                      Development Policy Review
ESAF                     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                       European Union
FENAPET                  Federation Nationale des Associations des Parents d 'Eleves du Tchad
FER                      Fonds d 'Entretien Routier
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
HCI                      Haut Comzte Interministgriel
HIPC Initiative          Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HS                       Huilerne Savonnerie
IDA                      International Development Association
IFMIS                    Integrated Financial Management Information System
IGF                      Inspection Generale des Finances
IMF                      International Monetary Fund
I-PRS                    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
MDD                      Ministry Delegate of Decentralization
MDJT                     Mouvement pour la Dgmocratie et la Justice au Tchad
NGO                      Non Governmental Organization
NGS                      National Governance Strategy
NIF                      Numero dI'dentizfcation Fiscale
PER                      Public Expenditure Review
PRGF                     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC                     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP                     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRS                      Poverty Reduction Strategy
PSIA                     Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
SAC                      Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP                      Systeme d 'Appreciation des, Performances
SIG                      Systeme Integre de Gestion du personnel de l'Etat
SNER                     Societe Nationale d 'Entretien Routier
SONASUT                  Societe Nationale Sucrznre du Tchad
STEE                     Societe Tchadienne d'Eau et d'Electricite
Vice President          Callisto Madavo
Country Director        Ali M. Khadr
Sector Director         Paula Donovan
Sector Manager          Cadman Atta Mills
Task Team Leader        Christine M. Richaud



THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FIFrH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC V)
Table of Contents
Page
1. Introduction                                                                    3
2. Recent Political, Economic and Social Developments                              4
A. Political Developments                                                      4
B. Economic Progress                                                            4
C. Progress in Poverty Reduction                                               7
D. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements                             8
E. The Difference Oil Can Make.                                               10
3. Chad's Poverty Reduction Strategy and Areas of World Bank Support              12
A. The Fully Participatory PRSP                                               12
B. Progress under SAC IV                                                      13
C. The Strategic Context of SAC V                                             15
D. Strengthen Transparency, Accountability, the Rule of Law and Participation  17
E. Ensure Efficient and Transparent Public Resource Management with a View to Poverty
Reduction                                                                   20
F. Promote Sustained Growth in the Rural Sector                               31
4. The Proposed Credit                                                           36
A. Reform Measures, Actions Taken Prior to Negotiations                       37
B. Triggers for Subsequent Operations                                         39
C. Implementation and Monitoring                                              43
D. Credit Administration                                                      43
E. Benefits and Risks                                                         45
5. Coordination with the IMF, the AfDB and Other Donors                          46
6. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                 46
List of Annexes
Annex 1:    Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2:    SAC V Policy and Action Matrix
Annex 3:    Chad - Progress toward Achieving the HIPC Initiative Completion Point Triggers
Annex 4:    Chad - Expenditure Accountability Assessment Update
Annex 5:    Chad - Relations with the Intemational Monetary Fund
Annex 6:    Chad - At a Glance
Annex 7:    Chad - Social Indicators
Annex 8:    Chad - Key Economic Indicators
Annex 9:    Chad - Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 10:   Timetable for Key Processing Events and Task Team Members
Annex 11:   Chad Country Map






THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR THE
FIFTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC V)
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower            The Republic of Chad
Amount              SDR 29.6 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms               Standard IDA terms (40-year matunty and 10-year grace period)
Program Objectives  SAC V supports a medium-term reform program focusing on two of the
five strategic axes identified in Chad's full PRSP: (i) promote good
governance; and (ii) ensure strong and sustained growth.  Like its
predecessor, SAC IV, it focuses on strengthening (i) governance and
public resource management as necessary conditions for improved service
delivery to the poor, especially in view of the advent of first oil revenues
expected in the second semester of 2003 and (ii) eliminating constraints to
growth and poverty reduction in the rural sector.
Credit Description  The reforms supported by SAC V aim to achieve poverty reduction by (i)
enhanced transparency, accountability and adherence to the rule of law
through the adoption and implementation of a governance strategy and
action plan; (ii) more transparent, accountable and efficient use of public
resources for poverty reduction through the reforn of (a) the budget cycle,
(b) public procurement and (c) the civil service; and (iii) sustainable
growth in rural areas through a profound reform of the cotton sector and
improved access to micro-finance.  In each of these reform areas,
particular attention is given to empowering the independent institutions
that are destined to provide the checks and balances for the efficient
management of resources for poverty reduction - the executive, the
legislative, the judiciary, the press, and civil society, including farmers'
associations.
Benefits            Successful implementation of the reform program will result in better
governance including improved security, stricter adherence to the rule of
law and more transparent and accountable use of public resources. It will
improve the Government's efficiency and poverty reduction focus in
delivering services in the priority sectors, including health, education,
basic infrastructure, justice and rural development. It will lead to an
increase in farmers' bargaining power in the cotton sector. Finally, it will
complement and enhance the impact of other Bank interventions,
especially the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project, and its
associated petroleum revenue management program, ongoing and future
operations in the health, education, transport and agriculture sectors, and a
proposed community development project.



Risks               There are substantial risks to the proposed operation.
*  The implementation of the proposed program and related budget
depends on reduction of tensions in the sub-region and rebel activities
in some areas of the country. However, ongoing peace efforts should
contribute to mitigate this risk.
*  Commitment to improving governance has strengthened but remains
fragile. To address this risk, both the current operation, the program
supported under the PRGF, and the HIPC Completion Point triggers
continue to focus squarely on governance and improved public
resource management for poverty reduction.  SAC V seeks to
strengthen considerably the regulatory framework and procedures
associated with good governance.  In addition it emphasizes the
empowerment of the independent institutions that are destined to
provide the checks and balances on the use of public resources. The
combination of better procedures and empowered institutions of
restraint will contribute to curtailing the opportunities for politically
motivated diversion of public resources.
*  The cotton reform program touches about 350,000 poor families and
its primary goal is to improve their livelihoods. Given the complexity
of the reform program which is being introduced in a context of
depressed world cotton prices and hardly functioning rural markets, it
will be a challenge to ensure the program's consistency with the stated
objective. To overcome this risk, a study has been launched to identify
the most appropriate scenario for State's divestiture from Cotontchad,
taking into account the difficult context of the reform. Moreover, an
extensive ex-ante and ex-post poverty and social impact analysis is
being completed, the results of which will feed into the design of the
reform program and allow for ex-post adjustments if necessary.
However, the continuing decline in world cotton prices, notably as a
result of subsidies in Part I countries, may affect the viability of
Chad's cotton sector altogether and thus jeopardize the proposed
reform program.
Disbursements       The proposed credit will be disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness of
the Development Credit Agreement.
Report              Not applicable.
Project ID Number   P077781



- 3-
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A PROPOSED
FIFTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC V)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The following Program Document proposes a Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC
V) to the Republic of Chad for SDR 29.6 million, the equivalent of US$ 40 million. The credit
would be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and a 10-year grace period. Chad's
adjustment efforts are also supported by a three year program under the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF), for which the fourth review was concluded simultaneously with the
approval of the third annual arrangement in October 2002, as well as by an Adjustment Credit by
the African Development Bank.
2.    The proposed SAC V would provide fast disbursing support to address Chad's external
financing needs and support a medium-term reform program reflecting the country's full Poverty
Reduction Strategy (PRS). The proposed credit focuses on strengthening governance and public
resource management as necessary conditions for improved service delivery to the poor. It
further supports sustainable growth in the rural areas through a profound reform of the cotton
sector, and policy changes to improve access to micro-finance. The program supported by SAC
V is laid out in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1). The proposed credit
is a key element of the CAS dated May 1999, and its Addendum discussed at the Board in April
2000, which identified the following objectives for Bank assistance: (i) building capacity for
improved governance; (ii) establishing the foundations for improved delivery of basic social
services; and (iii) removing constraints to growth.
3.    At the time of Board presentation of SAC IV, it was anticipated that future balance of
payments support could be provided under a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). The
Chad PRSP has not been completed yet, partly because (i) following a donors' conference in
Brussels in May 2002, the PRSP Steering Committee decided to improve the prioritization and
costing of the strategy, and (ii) discussions at the government level have led to revisions of the
document, which is now almost finalized and expected to be completed by end March 2003. In
addition, despite significant progress, weaknesses still remain in the area of budget preparation
and execution, notably in priority sectors; in this context, the efficiency of broad programmatic
support in these sectors would not be maximized. Hence it is proposed to support Chad's full
PRSP by a SAC, focused on governance and public resource management with a view to
building the environment in which it will be possible to provide broader programmatic support
for the PRSP agenda in the future. Support for additional capacity building, institutional
strengthening, and reforms will also be provided to strengthen Chad's fiduciary arrangements in
preparation for broader programmatic support. In the context of the proposed operation, efforts
will also be made to advance core diagnostic work, including a CFAA and a Development Policy
Review.
4.    The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 discusses the country
background, including recent political, economic and social developments. Section 3 presents
Chad's PRS and areas of World Bank support. Section 4 describes the proposed credit detailing



actions taken prior to Negotiations, implementation and monitoring and credit administration, as
well as benefits and risks. Section 5 discusses coordination with other donors and Section 6
assesses compliance with Bank policies.
2.    RECENT POLITICAL, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENTS
A.   Political Developments
5.    After 30 years of civil strife, Chad has maintained relative peace and stability since 1993.
A new constitution was adopted in 1996, and a Constitutional Council was established in 1996
and made fully operational in 1999. On May 20, 2001 Chad held its second democratic
presidential elections with the incumbent, President Deby, winning in the first round. The
opposition parties challenged the results in court, alleging irregularities during the electoral
census as well as on the day of the vote. The Constitutional Council - after having declared an
important fraction of the votes ineligible - concluded that President Deby won the elections with
63 percent of the vote. Legislative elections were subsequently held on April 21, 2002. The
ruling Mouvement Patriotique du Salut (MPS) won 112 out of 155 seats, more than a two third
majority. Participation rates were particularly low, however, at 53 percent nationwide and only
28 percent in the capital. A new Government was nominated on June 12, 2002.
6.    In January 2002, the Government signed a peace agreement with the MDJT (Mouvement
pour la Democratie et la Justice au Tchad), a rebel group that had been active in the extreme
Northern part of the country, causing casualties over the past few years and resulting
momentarily in the economic isolation of the Saharan Region of Tibesti. As a result of the peace
discussions, former President Felix Malloum returned to Chad after 23 years of exile. However,
the overall situation is still fragile.
B.   Economic Progress'
7.    Since 1994, Chad has established a satisfactory macroeconomnic track record with the
support of an IMEF enhanced Structural Adjustmnent Facility and a Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility, and four World Bank Structural Adjustment Credits - the last of which was fully
disbursed in January 2002. The country's real GDP growth rate has averaged 4.3 percent per
year between 1994 and 1999, or about 2 percent per capita. In 2000, growth slowed to 0.6
percent due to a sharp decline in agricultural production following a severe drought. Real GDP
growth resumed briskly in 2001, driven by oil-related investments and its spillover effects, as
well as a return to normal agricultural production, reaching 8.5 percent, and accelerated further
in 2002 (10.9 percent). Construction of the Chad-Cameroon pipeline is advancing as planned and
Chad is expected to collect oil revenues starting in December 2003.
8.    Except for a brief period in 2001, Chad has stayed current in its debt payment to all
external creditors and Chad's HIPC Decision Point was approved by the Bank and Fund
Executive Boards in May 2001. Since 1994, current expenditures have been kept under tight
control, averaging about 9 percent of GDP. At the same time, the allocation of expenditure
1 Source of data: World Bank and Intermational Monetary Fund estimates and projections, 2003.



shifted in favor of education, health, social affairs, transport, public works, and justice. Starting
in the last quarter of 2001, considerable progress was made in domestic revenue collection, but at
a projected 8 percent of GDP in 2002, Chad's revenue to GDP ratio remains among the lowest in
the world. Until 2001, Chad had preserved much of its gains in external competitiveness
following the devaluation of the CFAF in 1994. Following a 12.5 percent increase in consumer
prices in 2001, due to food crops shortages, consumer prices are estimated to have increased by
4.5 percent in 2002.
9.     Since the beginning of its adjustment efforts in 1994, Chad has made good progress in
structural reforms, with particularly strong achievements in 2000-2002, as documented in Box
1. The most prominent recent accomplishment is an improvement in revenue collection. For the
first time in several years, Chad outperformed its March 2002 revenue target under the PRGF
supported program by about 7 percent. This was the result of a concerted effort to reinforce tax
and customs administration, including an anti-fraud campaign. Tax administration has improved
considerably with the extension of the unique Tax Identification Number (Numero
d'Identification Fiscale) from 1,772 firms in June 2001 to 4,010 in May 2002. Over the same
period, the number of firms identified as "large" and subject to a special tax regime has increased
from 369 to 440. Several measures were taken to reduce tax and customs fraud and corruption:
(i) improved flows of information between the procurement authority and the tax administration
unit has contributed to reducing under-reporting of companies' turnover; (ii) control of customs
officers has been reinforced and disciplinary action has been taken against about 200 corrupt
customs agents; and (iii) a considerable effort has been made to mobilize customs duties from
small-scale traders. As a result of all these efforts, revenue mobilization is projected to have
increased from 7.8 percent of GDP in 2001 to 8.0 percent in 2002.2
10.   Chad's record on governance and transparency remains uneven, but important efforts
have been made since the Board presentation of SAC IV. Over the past year, the governance
dialogue with the Government of Chad has evolved considerably, resulting in a fiank and shared
assessment of the major issues. Consequently, considerable achievements were made since the
Board presentation of SAC IV (see Box 1). Apart from the revenue measures presented in
paragraph 9, these include (i) the adoption of a National Governance Strategy by the
Government ; (ii) the publication of the audit of the off-budget use of the petroleum signing
bonus (http://www.if.nief.gouv.td6); (iii) the adoption of the rules of procedures (reglement
interieur) of the College de Contr6le et de Surveillance des Ressources Petrolieres and the
publication of its first annual report and quarterly reports (http://www.ccsrp.td) ; (iv) the
completion of an action plan for the definition of a public information disclosure policy; (v) the
finalization of a financial and operational audit of customs services and the launching of a users'
perception survey; (vi) the finalization and publication of an audit of public procurement
contracts awarded in 2001 and of the public procurement system (http://www.coursupreme.td);
2 As a percentage of non-oil GDP, revenue mobilization is projected to have increased from 8.3 percent in 2001 to 9.0 percent in
2002. Because investment in the oil sector is largely duty-exempt, this is arguably a better measure of the results of the
ongoing efforts to improve revenue administration.



-6-
Box 1. Structural reforms September 2000 - December 2002
Revenue and expenditure management
*    Introduced monthly treasury cash-flow plan and extended ns honzon to 12 months.
*    Introduced functional budget classification, presented current and investment expenditures jointly for each ministry starting with 2001
Budget Law.
*    Simplified expenditure circuit from 97 steps to 22. Computenzed first three steps of expenditure circuit Obtamned approval to use Burkina
software to develop full-fledged Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) and signed Memorandum of Understanding
for transfer of the software.
*    Completed first annual PER in health and education sectors, launched second annual PER in health, education, basic infrastructure and
jushce sectors.
*    Completed expenditure tracking study for health and education.
*    Adopted new education policy, emphasizing the govemment's support to community iniatives in basic education.
*    Launched work on medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) and program-budgets in health and education for introduction in the
budget documents which were presented to Parliament with the 2003 Budget Law
*    Launched work on monthly report on budget execution for each of the phases of budget execution (commitment, order to pay, charge taking
(pr-se en charge) and payment by Ministry.
*    Reviewed all Govemment accounts and extended definition of net credit to Govemment from 19 to 76 accounts.
*    Installed SYGADE debt management software and trained personnel in its use.
*    Finalized the first draft of a new Public Procurement Code.
*    Improved tax and customs administration through a concerted effort to reduce corruption and fraud
Transparency
*    Finalized and adopted National Governance Strategy.
*    Discontinued all off-budget operations.
*    Published four issues of a quarterly bulletin on public procurement and completed first draft of new procurement code.
*    Installed SYDONIA software in N'Djam6na customs offices and launched installation in 8 regional offices.
*    Made Road Maintenance Fund (FER) fully operational.
Accountability
*    Completed audit of off-budget use of the oil signing bonus and published it widely, including on the web at it!n.//www.iRf melfouv.td/.
*    Completed audit of customs administration and launched users' perception survey for customs services.
*    Completed and published ex-post audit of five largest procurement contracts in 2001. http //www coursupreme td.
*    Nominated Petroleum Oversight and Control Board (CCSRP) members, issued operational decree, stipulating CCSRP's nght to publish ns
reports independently; CCSRP prepared first draft of procedural manual, and first annual report and two quarterly reports
hitp lwww cesroitd.
*    General Finance Inspection issued and published report on irregularities in 2001 budget execution.
*    Auditor General's office audited 2000 budget execution and published report widely including on the web at hito://www.cou`su2reme id .
*    Govemment presented 2002 Budget Law to Parliament together with 2000 Budget Settlement Law.
*    Government presented 2003 Budget Law to Parliament, together with report on 2001 Budget Settlement Law.
*    Prepared audit of use of HIPC funds and took measures to address irregulanties (httn:J/www.couursuprefie.td).
Civil service reform
*    Parliament adopted new civil service status Law introducing competitive recruitment and ment-based advancement Implementation
decrees on competitive recruitment, remuneration, travel, indemnities and allocations and status of special professions were prepared for
issuance
*    Completed civil service census and provided full listing of the payroll by ministry.
*    Recruited consulting firm for operational audit of 9 ministnes.
Incentive and trade policies
*    Removed all price controls for petroleum products
Privatization
*    Privahzed the natonal sugar company (SONAS UT), initiated the privatization of the water and electricity company (STEE) by awarding a
pnvate management contract, and privatized the road maintenance company (SNER).
*    Introduced two pnvate cellular phone operators.
Cotton sector reform
*    Adopted cotton sector reform strategy, recruited Controller General for implementation of Cotontchad's restructuring plan.
*    Separated Oil and Soap Division (DHS) from Cotontchad and launched bidding process for selection of strategic investor for independent
HS
*    Completed a study by consulting firm to elaborate altemative scenarios for privatization of Cotontchad and liberalization of cotton industry
*    Launched Poverty and Social Impact Analysis of the cotton sector reform and completed first stage of the ex-ante qualitative analysis.
*    Created committee, consisting of farmers and Cotontchad, to annually establish cotton producer prices on basis of world cotton pnces
*    Launched capacity building program for cotton farmers' associations.



(vii) the completion and publication of an audit of all contracts financed with HIPC funds
(http://www.coursupremne.td) ; (viii) the completion of a first draft of a new public procurement
code followed by the organization of a seminar to discuss the draft with all stakeholders; and (ix)
the regular publication of a public procurement bulletin including on the Internet
(http://www.dgmp.gouv.td/).
11.   Despite this progress, governance issues have surfaced. Most prominently, the Ministry
of Finance's investigation into two public procurement contracts in the health sector for a
combined value of about FCFA 400 million (US$ 0.55 million) and financed by HIPC interim
assistance resources revealed irregularities, particularly with regard to contract pricing. The two
contracts were canceled and the monies involved were reimbursed to the HIPC account. A
subsequent audit of all HIPC financed contracts conducted by the Auditor General's Office was
launched. The audit report confirmed irregularities for the procurement of expenditures financed
by HIPC monies, resulting in over-billing from 20 to 30 percent. Public procurement has
repeatedly been identified as an area of weak governance in Chad, as emphasized again in the
audit of the largest contracts signed in 2001, which was conducted by independent consultants.
12.   Because the ongoing comprehensive procurement reform - including new procurement
legislation - will become effective only in mid-2003, the Government has taken a set of actions
with a view to reducing irregularities in the short term. These include: (i) the completion and
publication of the audit of all contracts financed with HIPC interim assistance, and the launching
of administrative procedures against public personnel involved in the irregularities exposed in
the audit and the reimbursement of the monies involved to the HIPC account; (ii) the nomination
of representatives of the Ministry of Finance on the public procurement bid evaluation boards,
with a view to a stricter control of prices; (iii) the launching of the recruitment of independent
observers for the public procurement bid evaluation boards in the health and education sectors;
(iv) the modification of the approval procedure for public contracts to include approval by the
Minister of Finance for all contracts with a value above FCFA 500 million. This decree however
was modified again in December 2002: the Minister of Finance signs all contracts between
FCFA 10 and 50 millions, and the President signs all contracts above this threshold; and (v) the
modification of the articles of the public procurement code referring to the procedure of limited
bidding3 with a view to eliminating abuse of this procedure.
C.   Progress in Poverty Reduction
13.   Chad's real per capita GDP is estimated to have increased by about 5.5 percent in 2001,
and is projected to have increased by an additional 7.9 percent in 2002 and to rise by 7 percent in
2003. In the absence of data on the evolution of household incomes,4 it is difficult to assess the
poverty reduction and distributional impact of this average growth. However, it is reasonable to
assume the recent spur in national income, which is driven by oil-investment and related
spillover effects in the construction and services sectors, is primarily benefiting the urban
populations of N'Djamena and the southern secondary cities. At the same time the southern
rural population is facing the consequences of the sharp drop in world cotton prices, which is
expected to translate in a cumulative decrease in farm gate prices of at least 25 percent between
3 This procedure provides for bidding by direct invitation without open advertisement.
4 The first National Household Survey has been fielded in January 2003 and the first analytical results are expected to be
available at the end of 2003.



-8-
the 2000-2001 and the 2002-2003 cotton campaigns. The urban-rural income gap is thus
expected to increase.
14.    With respect to human development, Chad ranked 155h out of 162 countries listed in the
2001 United Nations Human Development Index. Yet certain social indicators have improved
considerably since 1994 (Box 2), indicating substantial progress in the delivery of social
services. Most impressively, the gross school enrollment rate for girls has increased from 31
percent in 1994-95 to 55 percent in 1999-20005, and the DPT vaccination rate has increased from
18 percent in 1994 to 43 percent in 2000. The quality of education has deteriorated, however.
The authorities' objective is to achieve universal completion of primary school by 2015,
consistently with the Millennium Development Goals. Social indicators remain well below the
average for sub-Saharan Africa. Moreover, there are large regional differences for health and
education indicators. The gross primary enrollment rate varies between 26 percent in the
Salamat, and 111 percent in the Logone Occidental. The DPT3 vaccination rate is 20 percent in
the Lac but reaches 106 percent in the Logone Occidental. Poverty has a strong gender
dimension, as indicated by the high female illiteracy and maternal mortality rates.
Box 2. Social Development Indicators for Chad and Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), 1994-2000
1994                    2000
Chad     SSA            Chad     SSA
Human Development Index (scale: 0 to 1)       0.334                   0.359
Life expectancy at birth (years)                 46      51              50      47
Maternal mortality ratio (per 100,000 live births)  ...  ...            827      ...
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)   132      ...            103      91
Child malnutrition prevalence (percent)          ...     ...             28      32
Vaccination DPT (percent)                        18      51              43      463
Aids prevalence among sexually active                                   5-7       8
Female adult illiteracy (percent)                76      54              66      47
Male adult illiteracy (percent)                  58      36              48      31
Female gross primary school enrollment (percent)  31     71             55 2     724
Male gross primary school enrollment (percent)   62      85             88 2     854
Sources: World Development Indicators, Human Development Report Health Country Status Report 2002 and
Government statistics,' 1999-2000 school year, '1999 data; '1998 data.
D.   Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
15.    Chad's medium-term growth prospects continue to be good as oil exploitation - currently
scheduled to begin in the second half of 2003 - will profoundly change Chad's economic
environment.  Oil related investment and its spillovers are expected to result in continued
average real growth rates of about 11 percent in 2001-2003, and first oil in 2003 will be
accompanied by a jump in growth in 2004, which may be as high as 51.5 percent (Box 3). As a
share of GDP, investment is projected to increase from 41.7 percent in 2001 to 52.3 percent in
2002 and 51.9 percent in 2003, with 80 percent of this representing private investment (of which
' The 2001 figures are not available. The Ministry of Education faces significant difficulties in the production of statistics and
wishes increased support from development partners in that respect



investment in the oil sector will amount to 32.7 percent of GDP in 2002 and 30.5 percent in
2003). Consumer prices are projected to have increased by an average of 4.5 percent in 2002
and to increase by 4.0 percent in 2003 following an average rainy season and thus a return to
normal levels of food production in 2001-02.
Box 3 - Medium term prospects - selected indicators
2001   2002   2003    2004   2005
GDP at constant pnce, annual growth rate  8.5  10.9  13.6   51.5    6.0
Non oil                            2.5     5.0    9.0    3.7    6.4
Oil (including investment)l               112.3  52.9   1115.5  5.3
GrossinvestmentinpercentofGDP         41.7    52.3   51.9   15.8   12.4
Government revenue in percent of GDP   7.8    8.0    7.8    9.7    10.2
Of which Oil revenue                                     4.1    4.0
Government expenditure in percent of GDP  18.8  24.5  19.0  13.0   13.3
Overall fiscal balance2               -11.0  -16.5  -11.2   -3.3   -3.1
Consumer price index (average)         12.4   4.5    4.0    4.0     3.0
I. Based on an assumption of a world oil price of USD 21 per banel in 2004 and 2005
2. On a commitment basis and cxcluding grts.
16.   As for fiscal policies, the overall deficit, on a commitment basis and excluding grants, is
expected to have widened from 11 percent of GDP in 2001 to 16.5 percent of GDP in 2002,
reflecting a significant increase in foreign-financed public investment. The overall deficit is then
expected to decline to 11.2 percent in 2003. At the same time, the primary current deficit
excluding grants has also risen slightly from 0.8 percent of GDP in 2001 to 2 percent of GDP in
2002, reflecting the impact of higher transfers to the cotton sector in the wake of the drop in the
world market price for cotton. The primary current deficit would then be eliminated in 2003.
Total Government revenue, excluding grants, is targeted to have increased slightly from 7.8
percent of GDP in 2001 to 8.0 percent of GDP in 2002 and is expected to return to 7.8 percent in
2003. As a share of non-oil GDP, the ratio has risen by 0.7 percentage point in 2002 and will
increase by 0.1 percentage point in 2003 reflecting significant efforts to strengthen tax and
customs administration. On the expenditure side, in nominal terms, the total nonmilitary wage
bill is projected to have risen by 17 percent in 2002 and to increase by 6 percent in 2003, on
account of an increase in employment in the priority sectors and an increase in salaries for health
workers, while maintaining a recruitment freeze in non-priority sectors. The military wage bill
has risen by about 0.8 percent in 2002 and will rise by 12 percent in 2003, reflecting an inflation-
related cost adjustment and the regularization of military personnel. Non-salary current
expenditures will increase by about 20 percent for the ministries of health, education, social
affairs, public works and justice, and remain unchanged in all other parts of the public sector.
Public sector investment will concentrate in priority areas.



- 10-
Box 4. Financing Requirements until the Onset of Oil Revenues
(in millions of dollars)                                2002         2003
Current account deficit                               -957.1     -1,075.6
Financing sources                                      957.1      1,075.6
Direct foreign investmentl/                           683.2       796.1
Of which Doba oil project-related                    644.0       750.0
Official grants (current and capital transfers)       108.1        98.6
Short term capital                                    -29.1       -28.4
Public long term borrowing (net)                       82.1        92.0
Expected exceptional financing                         89.5        96.3
World Bank 2/                                         41.8        60.0
European Union                                        21.1        19.9
IMF (net)                                             10.6         3.9
African Development Bank                               5.9        11.5
Other                                                 10.1         1.0
Debt relief (debt rescheduling and HIPC Initiative)    23.5        21.1
Financing gap                                            0.0          0.0
Memorandum items:
Exceptional transfers to cotton sector                14.8         7.6
Cost of implementation of the peace accord             4.2         4.7
Note 1/: including other private investment; 2/ in 2003, US$40 millions is accounted for by the proposed
SAC V.
17.   The current account deficit, excluding official current transfers, reached 38.8 percent of
GDP in 2001 and is projected to have increased to 49.4 percent in 2002 and to rise by 44.5
percent in 2003, reflecting both an increase in imports associated with the acceleration of the
pipeline construction and lower exports due to a decline in the world market price for cotton.
The 2003 deficit is expected to be covered by foreign direct investment (32.9 percent of GDP),
official transfers (4.1 percent of GDP), short term capital (-1.2 percent of GDP), public net long
term borrowing (3.8 percent of GDP), expected balance of payment support (4 percent of GDP)
of which financing provided under SAC V would account for 1.7 of GDP, and debt relief (0.9
percent of GDP) as indicated in Box 4.
E. The Difference Oil Can Make
18.   Oil exports are expected to come on stream in the second half of 2003. With the advent
of oil revenue, annual real GDP growth is projected to reach over 50 percent in 2004, then
stabilize at about 6 percent in subsequent years. Preliminary estimates indicate that in the
medium and long-term, through enhanced formation of human and physical capital made
possible by oil revenues, Chad's non-oil GDP will grow by over 2 percent over its baseline rate.
This would imply doubling of per-capita income every 17 years, rather than every 35 years under



- 11 -
the baseline scenario. . Over the most probable range of future oil prices, oil revenues accruing to
Government would be quite significant. Preliminary estimates indicate that net nominal oil
revenues could average about US$ 384 million a year with a world price of US$ 25 per barrel
over the first 10 years of oil production (2003-2012).
19.   Oil provides a major opportunity for Chad to break free from poverty and very limited
resources, to diversify its economy and increase its fiscal revenues. If well managed, additional
revenues from oil can translate into significant poverty alleviation, through greater availability of
resources for priority sectors, improved basic infrastructure and enhanced delivery of social
services. The coming year, leading up to the materialization of oil revenues, will constitute a
crucial period, during which the government should take advantage to complete its structural
reforms, including fiduciary arrangements, and strengthen the macroeconomic environment.
Additional revenues can be allocated to lifting the bottlenecks that prevent growth and
specifically affect the poor. By investing in education, the human resources capital can be
increased, thereby providing the new generations of Chadians with better tools to face economic
challenges.  In conjunction with measures already taken, but which need to be fully
implemented, and aim at strengthening institutions, more resources can be assigned to alleviate
the bottlenecks that hinder both private sector activity and public sector delivery of services.
20.   Nonetheless, in view of what is sometimes called the "paradox of abundance" and the
experience of other oil-producing countries in Africa, it is clear that petroleum resources may
also create new risks6. Inability to control aggregate demand could lead to inflation, an
appreciation of the real exchange rate, a shrinkage of tradable sectors (including the cotton
sector) and large external imbalances. This risk is mitigated by Chad's membership in the
BEAC, a supranational Central Bank which independently implements a prudent monetary
policy. There is also the risk that large oil revenues weaken the incentives for reforms and the
leverage of external assistance. This risk will be limited though, as the PRSP process, SAC IV,
and the proposed operation have been helping to develop local constituencies for reform.
Moreover, while oil revenue will be significant, they will remain moderate enough to require
continued external assistance. To ensure that future petroleum revenues do not compromise the
country's recovery, Chad is in the process of setting up a regulatory and institutional framework
for checks and balances on the use of petroleum revenue. Thus, the National Assembly adopted
on December 30, 1998, a law on the management of government petroleumn revenue (Law no.
O01/PR/99). This law calls for the establishment of an oversight committee to monitor the use of
petroleum revenues. This committee, College de Contr6le et de Surveillance des Ressources
Pitroli6res (CCSRP), includes representatives of the Government, Parliament, and civil society.
Revenue will be deposited in an offshore account. The bulk of revenue will be allocated to
priority expenditure for poverty reduction. In addition, 10 percent of these resources will be
deposited in an offshore account for future generation. The allocation of petroleum revenue in
Chad is summarized in Box 5.
6Powerful economic forces are put in motion by the emergence of sudden wealth. If not appropriately managed, it can lead to
emergence of Dutch Disease, and the attendant volatility in govemment revenues in the face of high vanability of oil pnces



- 12-
Box 5 - Allocation of petroleum revenue in Chad
Petroleum revenues comprise direct and indirect resources. Indirect resources, which include taxes and
customs duties generated by oil exploitation, will be deposited in the ordinary accounts of the Treasury.
Hence, they will feed directly into the government budget. Direct resources, which include dividends and
royalties, will be first deposited in an offshore account opened with an international financial institution.
Then these resources will be allocated broadly as follows:
. 90 percent will be deposited in Treasury special accounts opened in one or more primary banks in
Chad after entering the BEAC zone.
* 10 percent will be deposited in an offshore account opened with an international financial institution
for future generations.
Funds deposited in special accounts will be allocated as follows:
*  80 percent of royalties and 85 percent of dividends will be allocated to expenditures in priority
sectors.
*   15 percent of dividends and royalties will finance other current and investment expenditures of the
government, then priority expenditures after December 31, 2007.
*  5 percent of royalties will be granted to decentralized institutions of the producing region, (over and
above the share of national spending normally attributed to this region) in accordance with Article
212 of the Constitution.
3.     CHAD'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY AND AREAS OF WORLD BANK SUPPORT
A.   The Fully Participatory PRSP
21.    Chad's full-fledged participatory Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) is almost
completed. The PRSP focuses on five strategic axes and sixteen national objectives as presented
in Box 6. Relatively to the Interim PRSP and as the direct result of the participatory process
involving the population and civil society, governance and sound macro-economic management
figure very prominently in the full-fledged participatory PRSP. Like the Interim PRSP, the full-
fledged participatory PRSP underlines the need for strong and sustained growth in the non-oil
sector, improved human capital, improved living conditions for vulnerable groups, and the
preservation of the environment.



- 13 -
Box 6. PRSP Strategic Axes and National Objectives
Strategic Axis 1: Promote good governance
*  National Objective 1.1: strengthen transparency, accountability, the rule of law and participation
*  National Objective 1.2: define the role of the State, the private sector and the civil society in the
PRSP implementation
* National Objective 1.3: ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to
poverty reduction
Strategic Axis 2: Ensure strong and sustained growth
* National Objective 2.1: promote private sector growth
* National Objective 2.2: ensure macroeconomic stabilization
*  National Objective 2.3: develop basic infrastructure
*  National Objective 2.4: create conditions for dynamic sustained development
Strategic Axis 3: Improve human capital
*  National Objective 3.1: promote and guarantee access to basic education, professional training and
literacy programs for the poor
*  National Objective 3.2: promote and guarantee access to basic health services for the poor
*  National Objective 3.3: strengthen HIV/AIDS prevention programs
Strategic Axis 4: Improve the living conditions for vulnerable groups and for the victims of
HIV/AIDS and other ISTs
* National Objective 4.1: promote integrated rural development
* National Objective 4.2: promote integrated urban development
* National Objective 4.3: support small and medium enterprises and employement
*  National Objective 4.4: ensure a better social protection of vulnerable groups
Strategic Axis 5: Restore and safeguard the ecological equilibriums and ecosystems
* National Objective 5.1: strengthen the regulatory framework and the natural resource management
capacity
. National Objective 5.2: improve management of domestic energy
B.   Progress under SAC IV
22.    Over the past year, good progress has been made toward implementing the medium-term
program presented in the President's Report for SAC IV. The triggers for further program
lending identified under SAC IV were nearly all completed as indicated in Box 7. Progress was
particularly strong in the area of public expenditure reform. At the same time, however, recent
reports have underlined the serious weaknesses in the budget cycle and public procurement
areas, which call for the continuation of a vigorous program of reforms in this area. In the areas
of civil service and cotton sector, reform progress was slower than expected, mainly because the
time needed for completing the proposed reforms had been underestimated when defining SAC
IV. With respect to civil service, delays occurred notably with respect to the launching of the
audit of major ministries. In the cotton sector, the reform program has also seriously been
affected by the continued drop in world cotton prices as a result of subsidies in Part I countries.
On balance, progress has nevertheless been satisfactory. A detailed presentation of achievements



- 14-
under SAC IV is presented in sections C, D, E and F below. Overall, progress has been
sufficient, and the balance of the SAC V package remains as strong as anticipated a year ago.
Box 7. Progress on the Triggers for further Program-lending Identified in SAC IV
Governance
*   adoption, publication and discussion during a forum for a broad set of stakeholders, of NGS and action plan
to diminish third parties in customs operations (bogobogo)                                  v
*   satisfactory progress in the implementation of the NGS and the action plan to dimmnish bogobogo, including
- the publication of the audit of the signing bonus                                        v
- the publication by the Auditor General's Office of the audit of public procurement in 2001
- the completion and publication of an operational and financial audit of customs services
- the completion of a users' perception survey of customs' services                        4
- the development of an action plan for the definition of a policy on public disclosure of information
- the development of an action plan for institutional reform of the security services       o
*   full functionality of the Petroleum Oversight and Control Board (CCSRP) as witnessed by
- the adoption of its rules of procedures (reglement interieur)                            V
- the wide availability of its reports on the control of the expenditures financed by the remainder of the
signing bonus
*   orgamzation of a stakeholder seminar to discuss the implementation of SAC IV
Reform of the budgetary cycle
* execution of non-salary operational budget for the Ministries of Education, Health, Public Works and Justice
at 95 percent on commitment basis at end fiscal year 2001 (excluding expenditures financed by HIPC and
remainder of bonus)
*   execution of the non-salary operational budget for the Mimstries of Education, Health, Public Works and
Justice at 50 percent on a commitment basis at end June 2002
*   completion under the stewardship of the health and education public expenditure committees of the study to
track expenditures from the central level to the basic health and education facilities and the adoption of an
associated action plan to improve the arrival of expenditures                               +
*   adoption by the Government of the Budget Settlement Law for fiscal year 2000               v
*   transmission of the Government's accounts for fiscal year 2001 to the Auditor General's Office  v
Procurement reform
*   adoption by the HCI of a new procurement code and independent appeals system
*   regular publication of the quarterly procurement bulletin
* adoption of a permanent scheme for the ex-post audit of public procurement contracts and the functioning
of the procurement system                                                                  v
Civil service reform
* comnpletion of the audit of seven pilot ministries to review organizational, procedural and human resources
aspects                                                                                    4
Cotton sector reform
*   completion of the bidding process for the privatization of the oil and soap company HS
*   completion of the ex-ante qualitative poverty and social impact analysis                   v
Legend: V: action completed                         4: action launched
*: action nearly completed                  o: action remaining to be launched



- 15-
C.   The Strategic Context of SAC V
23.   The proposed Credit would assist Chad in launching the implementation of two strategic
PRSP axes: (i) promote good govemance; and (ii) ensure strong and sustained growth. SAC V
will thus address Chad's principal development challenges: (i) translating future petroleum
revenues into expenditures for poverty reduction; and (ii) promoting growth in the non-oil sector,
especially in rural areas. More precisely SAC V would seek to: (i) improve governance and
transparency; (ii) increase the poverty reduction impact of public expenditures; and (iii) promote
growth in rural areas. The specific objectives sought in each of these three areas are presented in
Box 8. The program supported by SAC V is laid out in the Governnent's Letter of Development
Policy presented in Annex 1. A detailed policy measure and action matrix can be found in Annex
2. The program is consistent with the three-year medium-term program presented in SAC IV.
The medium-term program is a rolling three-year program initially based on the I-PRSP and the
results of PRSP consultations. SAC V, which supports two of the pillars of the PRSP, is a
further step to the convergence between the three-year medium term program and the three-year
PRSP program. The support to the PRSP will be broadened under subsequent Bank operations,
possibly in the form of PRSCs, and the contributions of other donors.
24.   SAC V also draws on recent analytical work, most prominently the Public Expenditure
Review (see Box 9). It is a key element of the CAS, dated May 1999, and its Addendum
discussed at the Board in April 2000, which identified the following objectives for Bank
assistance: (i) building capacity for improved governance; (ii) establishing the foundations for
improved delivery of basic social services; and (iii) removing constraints to growth.
25.   At the time of Board presentation of SAC IV, it was anticipated that future balance of
payments support could be provided under a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). The
Chad PRSP has not been completed yet, partly because (i) following a donors' conference in
Brussels in May 2002, the PRSP Steering Committee decided to improve the prioritization and
costing of the strategy, and (ii) discussions at the government level have led to revisions of the
document, which is now almost finalized and expected to be completed by end March 2003. In
addition, despite significant progress, weaknesses still remain in the area of budget preparation
and execution, notably in priority sectors; in this context, the efficiency of broad programmatic
support in these sectors would not be maximized. Hence it is proposed to support Chad's full
PRSP by a SAC, focused on govemance and public resource management with a view to
building the environment in which it will be possible to provide broader programmatic support
for the PRSP agenda in the future. Support for additional capacity building, institutional
strengthening, and reforms will also be provided to strengthen Chad's fiduciary arrangements in
preparation for broader programmatic support. In the context of the proposed operation, efforts
will also be made to advance core diagnostic work, including a CFAA and a Development Policy
Review.7
7A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) and a Public Expenditure Review (PER) were completed; preliminary
work has been completed towards a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), but further work, including the
preparation of a formal report, is still needed.



- 16-
Box 8. SAC V assisted reform program in support of the PRSP
Strategic PRSP Axes:
Promote good governance
Ensure strong and sustained growth
Overall Objective          Specific Objective                         Actions
Strengthen transparency, *  Implement national  *  Implement action plan to improve customs services
accountability, the rule  governance strategy  *  Organize "Etats Generaux de la Justice"
of law and participation                      *   Publish audit reports, Budget Law, Budget Settlement Law,
Auditor General's reports
*   Design the legal and  *  Complete studies on the legal and institutional framework
institutional framework  for decentralization
for decentralization
*   Provide mdependent  *  Publish CCSRP quarterly and annual reports
oversight and control  *  Adopt procedures manual for CCSRP
of petroleum revenues
Ensure efficient and   *  Improve preparation,  *  Present medium term expenditure programs in health and
transparent public        execution and ex-post   education in 2003 Budget Law, extend to justice, public
resource management       monitoring, control     works, housing and rural development sectors for 2004
with a view to            and audit of the        Budget Law
poverty reduction         budget              *   Improve preparation and monitoring of investment budget
*   Complete phase I of computerized expenditure circuit,
disseminate monthly budget execution report
*   Improve efficiency in budget execution in priority sectors
*  Disseminate monthly procurement plans in priority sectors
*   Launch the Integrated Financial Management Information
System
*   Issue and publish Auditor General's report on execution of
the budget and Budget Settlement Law
*   Strengthen role of the General Finance Inspection and
Auditor General's Office
*   Complete second annual Public Expenditure Review and
launch third one
*   Trace expenditures from the center to facilities in basic
services, implement action plan to improve the level of
resources reaching the facilities.
*   Adopt mechanism to pay community teachers
*   Make pubhc          *  Adopt new legal and regulatory framework, includmg a
procurement more       mechanism for dispute settlement
efficient and       *  Publish a quarterly public procurement bulletin
transparent         *  Publish annual audit public procurement contracts
*   Independent observers in procurement commissions for
health and education
*   The public procurement system is more effective
*   Strengthen          *  Complete new legal and regulatory framework by issuing all
transparency and       implementation decrees
accountability of   *   Implement effective competitive recruitment and merit-based
the civil service       promotion
*   Reorganize priority ministries, reinforce poverty reduction
objective
*   Computerize civil service file and payroll



- 17-
Box 8. SAC V assisted reform program in support of the PRSP
(continued)
Overall Objective             Specific Objective                         Actions
Promote sustained growth  *  Strengthen the role of  *  Develop institutional and organzational capacities of cotton
In the rural sector          fanmers' associations    farmers' associations
*   Improve farmers' access to information
*   Improve farmers' access to inputs and management services
   Disengage state from  *  Privatize Cotontchad's oil and soap division
cotton production and  *  Launch privatization of Cotontchad and review the industnal
review the industrial   structure of the cotton sector
structure of cotton sector *  Conduct ex-ante and ex-post poverty and social Impact analysis
of the reform of the sector
*   Improve access to    *  Adopt niicro-finance regulatory framework
micro-finance
D.    Strengthen Transparency, Accountability, the Rule of Law and Participation
Adopt and implement a national governance strategy
26.    Issues. Over the past year, the governance dialogue with the Government of Chad has
evolved considerably, resulting in a frank and shared assessment of the major issues. Three
factors contributed to this enhanced openness in the dialogue: (i) the discussions surrounding the
use of the petroleum signing bonus, both intemally and with the Bretton Woods Institutions; (ii)
the identification of governance as a major concem for poverty reduction by the population and
civil society during the PRSP consultations - as duly reflected in the full PRSP; and (iii) the
creation and systematic functioning of a joint civil society and government committee for the
drafting of the National Governance Strategy (NGS). As a consequence of this improved
dialogue, considerable achievements were made under SAC IV. Nevertheless, governance
problems remain important and deep-rooted as witnessed by the confirmation of major issues in
public procurement.
27.    Reform strategy. To make the commitment to good governance concrete, the authorities
have decided to:
*   define good govemance and elaborate a NGS;
* implement and annually update the NGS.
28.    Results achieved with the support of SAC IV. By the end of SAC IV, the following
actions had been completed:
*   the adoption by the HCI and the publication of the NGS;
*   significant progress in the implementation of the NGS including : (i) the publication
of critical reports by the Auditor General's Office, such as the audit of the signing
bonus and the audit of the public procurement system; (ii) the completion of the
operational and financial audit of the customs services, the adoption of the action plan
to diminish the involvement of third parties in customs operations and the launching
of a survey on users' perception of customs services; the survey was initially
scheduled to be completed by the end of SAC IV, but the necessity to reach a



- 18-
consensus on the terms of reference (notably on the scope of the survey and the extent
to which the informal sector should be covered) took more timne than expected; delays
also occurred because of a change in the staffing and management of the Customs
Directorate during the process; (iii) and the development of an action plan for public
disclosure of information.
29.   Expected results by the end of SAC V. By the end of SAC V, the following results are
expected:
further progress in the implementation of the NGS as witnessed by (i) a progress
report; (ii) completion of a survey on the users' perception of customs services, the
adoption of an action plan for the further improvement of customs services and the
launching of the implementation of this action plan; (iii) publication and wide
dissemination of the Government's Budget Law for fiscal year 2003; (iv) publication
on its website of critical reports by the Auditor General's Office such as its report on
the execution of the Budget Law for fiscal year 2002; (v) preparation of a first draft of
the policy for public disclosure of information and review of this draft by the
Government; and (vi) good progress on the organization of the "Etats Generaux de la
Justice", using in particular the analysis provided by the first Public Expenditure
Review carried out in the Justice sector.
30.   Expected results by the end of the three-year reform program. By the end of the
medium term reform program, the following results are expected:
o significant progress in the implementation of all areas of the NGS as witnessed by the
annual progress reports and by independent evaluations of the implementation of the
NGS's subcomponents.
Design the legal and institutionalframework for decentralization
31.   Issues. The decentralization process which has been undertaken in Chad is expected to
contribute to a more balanced and participative development process across regions with
increased participation of local communities. This process would be supported by the World
Bank through SAC V and the Local Development Project (PRODEL).
32.   Reform Strategy. The priority will be to design and set up the legal and institutional
framework for decentralization. Overall, the objectives are the following:
*  actual transfer of responsibilities and resources to future local governnents;
* "deconcentration" of line ministries operations and resources to support the
decentralization process and the strengthening of their technical support capacity to
the local level;
*  fiscal decentralization;
* organization of local elections to implement the organic Law regarding the creation of
rural communes.



- 19-
33.   Past progress and results achieved. Over the past 18 months, two major steps forward
were made by the Government: (i) adoption by the Assembly of the Organic Law regarding the
creation of rural communities in December 2001; (ii) validation by technical ministries of two
equally important draft laws regarding both the transfer of responsibilities and resources to local
governments. The latter draft laws are expected to be submitted to the Parliament in 2003.
Furthermore, the Govermment, with the assistance of the EU and UNDP, is actively engaged in
the preparation of the local elections to be held in 2003.
34.   Expected results by the end of SAC V  It is expected that by the end of SAC V, four
important studies relating to the design of the legal and regulatory framework for effective
implementation of the reform will be launched by the Ministry Delegate of Decentralization
(MDD) in the context of a decentralization support program designed in the context of
preparation of the PRODEL.
35.   Expected results at the end of the medium-term program. At the end of the three-year
program, it is expected that the legal and institutional framework for decentralization will be put
in place after finalization of the studies.
Provide independent oversight and control ofpetroleum revenues
36.   Issues. In 1998, the Government adopted the Petroleum Management Law, stipulating
that all Government revenues from the Doba oil fields will be integrated in the annual
Government budget and that royalties and dividends will be spent on development expenditures
mainly for health, education, basic infrastructure, and rural development, as well as on the
development of the oil-producing region. In addition to the normal oversight and control
procedures for Government expenditures, the Law foresees the creation of an independent
Petroleum Revenue Oversight and Control Board (CCSRP). The CCSRP consists of nine
members who are the Director of the Central Bank, the Director of the Treasury, a member of the
Supreme Court, two parliamentarians, and one representative of each of the following group of
stakeholders: human rights associations, local NGOs, the religious communities, and trade
unions. The CCSRP was originally scheduled to become operational by 2004, ahead of first oil
expected in 2005. However, following the problems surrounding the use of a first part of the
petroleum agreement signing bonus, the Government decided that the CCSRP would provide
oversight and control for the expenditures to be made with the remainder of the bonus.8
Moreover, the expected early onset of oil revenues in end 2003 adds to the urgency of making
the CCSRP fully operational in the short term.
37.   Reform strategy. With a view to ensuring the independent control and oversight of the
use of oil revenues as well as the remainder of the signing bonus, the Government has decided
to:
* Establish CCSRP by appointing its members, promulgating the CCSRP
implementation decree and adopting its rules of procedures (reglement interieur);
8 The detailed allocation of the remainder of the bonus, exclusively to expenditures in health, education, basic infrastructure,
rural development and govemance, has been integrated in the Revised 2001 Budget Law adopted by Parliament on May 9,
2001 and in the 2002 Budget Law adopted by Parliament on December 23, 2001.



- 20-
* define its operational rules, paying particular attention to the CCSRP's independence;
* make sure the CCSRP becomes fully operational in the context of the use of the
remainder of the signing bonus and ahead of the advent of oil revenues.
38.   Results achieved with the support of SAC IV. By the end of SAC IV, the following
actions had been completed:
*  the CCSRP has become almost fully operational as witnessed by the adoption of its
rules of procedures (reglement interieur) and the wide availability of its reports on the
control of the expenditures financed by the remainder of the signing bonus
(http)://www.ccsrp.td).
* the CCSRP has started to establish its independence by refusing to approve bonus
account expenditures that were not clearly allotted in the Budget Law, as well as
expenditures for which procurement procedures were not properly applied.
*  The CCSRP has prepared a first draft of its manual of procedures.
39.   Expected results by the end of SAC V. By the end of SAC V, the following results are
expected:
* the CCSRP has perfected its interventions as witnessed by the finalization and
publication of a detailed manual of procedures and the hiring of two analysts to help
it carry out its mission
e the CCSRP has continued to publish its quarterly and annual reports on its website.
* the CCSRP has confirmed that the remainder of the Petroleum Agreement Signing
Bonus has been used in a satisfactory manner.
40.   Expected results by the end of the three-year reform program. By the end of the
medium term reform program, it is expected that:
* the CCSRP would have fully established itself as the independent oversight and
control board for petroleum revenues as witnessed by its reports on the use of first oil
revenues.
E.   Ensure Efficient and Transparent Public Resource Management with a View to
Poverty Reduction
Improve the preparation, execution and ex-post monitoring, control and audit of the budget
41.   Issues. Since 1994, and in a context of overall budgetary restraint, the Government has
systematically increased budget allocations for non-salary operational expenditures for the
ministries of health, education, social action and public works. Moreover, since there are
important shortages of human resources in the education and health sectors, recruitment of staff
for basic education and health facilities continued, despite a freeze on overall hiring. Together
with policy changes in the education and health sectors, this has allowed Chad to make
impressive progress in some health and education outcomes. However, public services are still



- 21-
of low quality, lack a focus on equity - as evidenced by the large regional differences in health
and education indicators.
42.   In 2002, the Government completed a Public Expenditure Review as well as an
Expenditure Tracking Survey in the Education and Health sectors. These analytical instruments
show that progress has been made but significant improvements are still necessary in budget
preparation, execution and monitoring, and control and ex-post evaluation to ensure a more
efficient and transparent use of public resources for poverty reduction. In view of the advent of
oil revenues expected in end 2003, it is crucial that this be accomplished in the short term. The
most important insights gained from this recent analytical work are presented in Box 9.
Box 9. Insights from the PER and the Expenditure Tracking Surveys
The 2001-2002 public expenditure review (PER) is the first stage of an annual public expenditure review
process which was launched in Chad in June 2001. It has included two sectoral reviews led by the
Chadian authorities in the health and education sectors, which represent two key priority sectors. The
purpose of the review was to present a diagnosis and make recommendations on how to improve
budgetary allocations and procedures for budget preparation, execution, monitoring and reporting. The
objective is to allow the budget to become a key tool for the implementation of the National Poverty
Reduction Strategy (NPRS) which is currently being finalized. Overall, the PER indicates that, in priority
sectors, an annual increase by 20 percent of the recurrent budget (excluding personnel expenditures),
although necessary, is not sufficient. It is also essential to ensure that public resources are actually spent
according to the plan and that spending actually reach the beneficiaries, which, according to the results of
the Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys (PETS) carried out in the health and education sectors, is not the
case.
More specifically, the health PER highlights the inequities in the regional breakdown of resources
allocated to the health sector, the need to improve the actual distribution of health facilities by making
them operational, and the need to improve the regional programming of expenditures. The insufficient
availability of human resources, in terms of both quantity and quality, also impedes efforts to expand
health coverage. Furthermore, the PER concludes that the cost recovery policy should be strengthened.
In the education sector, the erratic nature of the breakdown of resources by region indicates the need to
strengthen expenditure programming and, in particular, improve the distribution of schools. In addition,
community teachers represent a resource that should be turned to an advantage, and the existing
dichotomy between public schools and community schools should be eliminated. The government is
willing to move in that direction and the Bank plans to support this effort through an Education Sector
Reform Project (PARSET). In parallel, decentralization of budget procedures by allocating credit directly
to regional departments, including those related to centralized purchasing, would improve the
effectiveness of the expenditure, while bringing beneficiaries closer to the expenditure decision-making
process. Furthermore, given their relative weight, the costs of higher education need to be reduced. The
review also concluded to the lack of centralized financial information on investments. Promoting school
enrollment of girls is also a strategic priority of government policy in the education sector. A higher
proportion of women teachers would have a definite impact on school enrollment of girls. Overall, an
analysis of the determinants of the demand for education (especially in the Northern part of the country
and for girls), is necessary.



-22-
Box 9 (Continued). Insights from the PER and the Expenditure Tracking Surveys
Overall, the current budget preparation process does not induce sector-based ministries to establish
priorities and engage in arbitration between their programs and projects. In a number of ministries,
preparation of budget requests consists solely of taking inventory of the "needs" and wishes of the various
departments within the ministry. Progress has nevertheless been made in budget presentation. A
functional nomenclature and an economic nomenclature were set up in 2001 and analytical tables
presenting expenditures according to the functional nomenclature were prepared in 2002. Despite these
improvements, one of the most worrisome issues is the lack of human resources allocated to the
preparation of the budget. Placing the budget in a multi-year perspective will ensure that budget policies
can be maintained in the medium term, without creating a financial imbalance, and will permit planning
and monitoring of changes in budget policy, which often require a sustained effort over a number of
years.
With respect to budget execution, monitoring and evaluation, significant progress has been made.
Nevertheless, execution of the non-personnel operating budgets of the Ministry of Health and the
Ministry of Education is very slow. The PER indicates that priority sectors do not receive the same
priority as other sectors with respect to cash management, as invoices are paid only as and when
budgetary aid is secured (in particular, aid received from the European Union). As a result, some private
suppliers are reluctant to respond to requests for bids in the health and education sectors because of the
delays of payment. A situation of this sort tends to distort significantly the implementation of priorities
during budget execution. Thus, measures need to be taken to avoid such distortions, and the monitoring
system of budget execution needs to be improved so as to identify distortions in a timely manner. This
situation not only affects current expenditures, but also counterpart funds of projects financed by donors.
Significant efforts would need to be made to improve monitoring of the execution of capital expenditure.
Overall, Chad has undertaken important reforms and has already accomplished significant progress in the
area of budget management. Nevertheless, there are still important challenges ahead in preparation for
the petroleum era. In particular, it will be essential to continue ongoing efforts to improve transparency in
the use of public resources. In the medium term, Chad will also need to decentralize progressively
decision-making and mechanisms for public spending. This will make the government closer to the
beneficiaries, and it will contnbute to a better adequacy of the use of public resources to the needs of the
population, especially the poor. In this context, capacity building in the area of public expenditure
management will be key to the success of the reform. Overall, this evolution is beginning to take place in
Chad, and the next annual public expenditure review process pursues the analysis in this direction.
The Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS) completed in 2002 in the health and education sectors
was the first step of a two-stage process which aims at identifying and estimating the volume and nature
of expenditure which do not reach their intended beneficiaries. The second step will be the completion of
a health facility survey in 2003. These exercises are all the more important in Chad where the public
expenditure system is heavily centralized. The results of the PETS highlight major deficiencies in the
expenditure channel, both quantitatively (a significant proportion of public funds or purchased items do
not reach their beneficiaries) and qualitatively (deliveries are made with excess delays or differ from the
orders). As an illustration, in the education sector, the survey indicates that on average about 28 percent of
expenditures reach their intended beneficiaries. These deficiencies have a significant detrimental impact
on the efficiency and equity of public spending in the health and education sectors. With the support of
its partners, the government has already taken steps to improve the follow up of deliveries of goods,
notably in the health sector. Moreover, with the support of SAC V, the govemment intends to finalize and
implement a comprehensive action plan in order to address these weaknesses.



- 23 -
43.   Reform strategy. The Government has embarked on an ambitious plan to improve
budget preparation, execution, ex-post control and evaluation with a view to improving the
impact of public expenditures on poverty reduction. This plan includes:
*  Capacity building in the area of budget preparation and monitoring and in public
procurement, identification of the needs in terrns of qualified personnel and
appropriate staffing and training in the Ministry of Finance and line Ministries;
* the refinement of the budget classification, both with respect to type and geographical
zone, in order to improve monitoring of the budget from a poverty reduction
perspective;
* the annual preparation of a medium-term  macro-economic and expenditure
framework and sector expenditure plans for the implementation of the PRS;
* the continued recruitment of staff for basic health facilities and the generalization of
community teachers (recruited at the village level by the local parents' association);
*  the implementation of a mechanism to subsidize community teachers;
* the early preparation of procurement in the priority sectors and the monitoring of
procurement plans;
* the simplification of the expenditure circuit to 22 steps, and its computerization;
* the improved in-year monitoring of budget execution;
* the use of bank wires and checks for the execution of budget operations;
* the annual auditing of accounts by the Auditor General's Office;
* the strengthening of the role of the General Finance Inspection body (IGF) and the
enhanced accountability of all personnel involved in budget execution;
* the completion of an annual PER in priority sectors to evaluate ex-post the impact of
public expenditures on poverty reduction and thus on the implementation of the PRS;
e the creation of a mechanism to track expenditures from the central levels to basic
education and health facilities and to identify bottlenecks and leakages.
44.   Results achieved with the support of SAC IV. By the end of SAC IV, considerable
progress was made on this reform plan which also emerges clearly from the Expenditure
Accountability Assessment Update presented in Annex 4. More precisely, the following actions
had been completed:
* a refinement of the budget classification, both with respect to the type and
geographical zone, for the education and health sectors;
o the preparation of the first medium-term macro-framework and its presentation in the
Budget Circular in 2002;
o   launching of the preparation of sector medium-term expenditure plans for health and
education and their inclusion in the 2003 Budget documents presented to Parliament;
o  continued recruitment of staff for basic health facilities;



- 24-
*  adoption of a new education policy recognizing the statute of community teachers as
the main statute for teaching in primary education;
*  creation of a mechanism to subsidize community teachers;
*   computerization of the first three phases of the expenditure circuit;
*   publication of a monthly report on the execution of the budget distinguishing
between commitment, order to pay and payment of expenditures;
*  execution of the non-salary operational budget for education, health and public works
at more than 95 percent on a commitment basis at the end of fiscal year 2001;
furthermore, the report on budget execution indicates that the target of 50 percent on
a commitment basis at mid fiscal year 2002, which was a trigger for SAC V
preparation identified in the SAC IV document, was reached in education, health and
public works but not in the justice sector, where the objective was achieved in July
2002;
* publication of the Auditor General's Report on the execution of the 2000 Budget
Law;
*  subrnission to Parliament of the 2000 Budget Settlement Law;9
*  the submission to the Auditor General of the government's accounts of the execution
of the 2001 Budget Law ("comptes administratifs" and "comptes de gestion") and
preparation of the 2001 Budget Settlement Law for submission to Parliament;
*  publication of the first annual report by IGF on irregularities in budget execution;
*  publication and discussion with a wide set of stakeholders of the first public
expenditure review with a focus on the health and education sectors; launching of the
second PER with a focus on health, education, housing, transport and justice;
*  completion of a study tracking expenditures between the central level and basic
facilities for health and education and preparation of a draft action plan to improve
the level of resources reaching basic facilities. The measure initially identified as a
trigger for preparation of SAC V in the SAC IV document (adoption of the action
plan) could not be reached because the authorities have decided to further discuss and
refine the drafts in early 2003, using the results of the study and other evidence, in
order to make sure that the action plans are comprehensive and well-targeted.
45.   Expected results by the end of SAC V. By the end of SAC V, Chad expects to achieve
the following:
*  significant progress has been made towards building the required capacities in the
area of budget preparation and execution in ministries and other public institutions
(procurement directorate, Auditor General's Office), as witnessed by (i) the effective
launching of the training program for all agents in charge of budget preparation and
execution, (ii) the hiring of the required number of qualified staff in the Budget
9The Parliament refused to approve the 2000 Budget Settlement Law due to inconsistencies between the "comptes
admtnistratWfs" and "comptes de gesion".



- 25-
Directorate, (iii) the identification of the needs in terms of qualified staff in the area
of budget preparation and procurement in the Ministries of health, education, higher
education, housing, public works, justice, agriculture, livestock and water and
environment, and the hiring of required staff or sub-contracting of activities if
necessary;
* inclusion of sector expenditure plans for health and education in the 2003 Budget
documents, including the provision for the continued recruitment of health staff and
the payment to community teachers of a government subsidy;
* further refinement of the budget classification both with respect to the type and
geographical zone;
*  further improvement of the Budget Circular for the 2004 budget with the presentation
of a medium-term macro-framework and medium-term expenditure framework
including sector expenditure ceilings;
* launching of preparation of medium term expenditure plans in health, education,
housing, public works and justice for their inclusion in the 2004 Budget Law;
launching of the preparation of public expenditure reviews and medium term
expenditure plans in the rural development sector (agriculture, livestock, water and
environment) for their inclusion in the 2004 Budget Law;
* effective implementation of the mechanism to subsidize community teachers;
*  completion of the first phase of the installation of the IFMIS, based on the Burkina
Faso IFMIS; launching of users' training;
* continued monthly publication of a report on the execution of the budget
distinguishing between commitment, order to pay and payment of expenditures, and
distribution to priority ministries (health, education, higher education, housing, public
works, justice); monthly review of budget execution in priority ministries and
publication of minutes; monitoring of indicators set out in the sector expenditure
plans;
* improved monitoring of the investment budget;
* execution of the non-salary operational budget for education, health, public works
and justice at more than 95 percent on a payment basis at the end of fiscal year 2002,
and at more than 50 percent on a commitment basis at mid fiscal year 2003; priority
ministries prepare monthly procurement plans and updates and review them along
with budget execution;
* the Budget Settlement Law for 2001 has been submitted to Parliament before the
adoption of the Budget Law of 2003; the 2002 accounts for fiscal year 2002
("compte administratif' and "compte de gestion") have been reconciled and submitted
to the Auditor General;
* publication of the second annual report by IGF on irregularities in budget execution
and the adoption and implementation of administrative sanctions for irregularities;
* publication of the second public expenditure review with a focus on the health,
education, public works, housing and justice sectors;



- 26-
* finalization and launching of implementation of an action plan to improve the arrival
of expenditures at the level of basic facilities including the public posting of
expenditure allocations in all basic health and education facilities;
* launching of the health facility survey to analyze the compatibility between the
allocation of expenditures and the demand for health services.
46.   Expected results by the end of the three-year reform program. By the end of the
medium-termn reform program, Chad expects to achieve the following:
* adequate number of staff with required skills are in charge of budget preparation and
execution in ministries, Procurement Directorate and Auditor General's Office;
o the presentation in each Budget Law of a medium-term macro-framework, a medium
term expenditure framework and sector expenditure plans for priority sectors drawn
from the PRS;
o a refined budget classification both with respect to the type and geographical zone;
allowing the monitoring of the budget from a poverty reduction perspective;
* annual execution of the operational budgets in the priority sectors at more than 95
percent on a payment basis;
* a fully operational IFMIS;
o a fully effective in-year budget execution monitoring system with effective
monitoring of performance indicators and execution of the investment budget;
e  a budget executed predominantly through the banking sector;
* the Budget Settlement Law for the preceding year is submitted to Parliament, then
adopted before the adoption of the Budget Law for the subsequent year;
* annual publication of a public expenditure review with a view to evaluating the
impact of expenditures on poverty reduction and the implementation of the PRS for
further improvement of the medium term expenditure plans;
* annual publication by IGF of a report on irregularities in budget execution and the
continuous implementation of administrative sanctions for irregularities;
* annual adoption of a performance contract for basic health and education facilities
between Government, managers and users.
Make public procurement more efficient and transparent
47.   Issues. In the context of the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), the
Government and World Bank staff have jointly concluded that Chad's public procurement
procedures are ill-defined and poorly implemented. The definition of the respective roles of
various institutions involved in the system is unclear; consequently, conflict of interest problems
arise. Both civil servants and private sector representatives lack training in procurement methods.
The approval circuit is unwieldy and involves the highest authorities for fairly small procurement
contracts. Hence, procurement procedures are unnecessarily long which hinders the execution of
the budget, notably in priority sectors. The public is not systematically informed regarding



- 27 -
standard bidding documents, invitations to tender for bids, reference prices, outcomes of bidding
procedures, appeals to awards or blacklisted firms. There is no transparent appeals and dispute
resolution system; no systematic auditing of procurement contracts and the functioning of the
procurement system. The impact of these weaknesses became particularly clear during the
review of the use of HIPC funds between May 2001 and May 2002, as described in paragraph 11.
48.   Reform strategy. To remedy these problems, the Government has launched a public
procurement reform program. This program provides for:
* simplification of the procurement approval circuit;
* clarification of the roles of the various institutions involved in the public procurement
system in the context of a new Public Procurement Code;
* design and implementation of an independent procurement appeals system;
* training of public personnel and the private sector with respect to procurement
procedures; hiring of independent observers in public procurement commissions for
priority sectors;
* preparation and dissemination of standard bidding documents;
* wide publication of information regarding public procurement;
* accreditation of procurement specialists;
* annual auditing of public procurement contracts and the public procurement system.
49.   Results achieved with the support of SAC IV. By the end of SAC IV, the following
actions had been completed:
* a draft new Public Procurement Code including an independent procurement appeals
system;
* organization of a stakeholder seminar to discuss the new draft Public Procurement
Code including an independent procurement appeals system; comments received will
be incorporated into the Code before finalization and adoption by the HCI in the first
semester of 2003; the final Code is also expected to take into account the results of
the audit of the five largest procurement contracts in 2001;
* regular publication of a quarterly procurement bulletin;
* creation, in the national school of public administration, of a specific curriculum for
public procurement;
* completion of an audit of the expenditures financed by the HIPC resources between
May 2001 and May 2002;
* completion of an audit of the five biggest procurement contracts for 2001 and the
adoption of a methodology for the annual audit of procurement contracts, as well as
the procurement system.
50.   In addition, a number of measures were introduced to address in the short term, problems
revealed by the audit of the expenditures financed with HIPC resources. These are:



- 28-
*  launching of administrative procedures against public personnel involved in the
irregularities exposed in the audit;
* nomination of representatives of the Ministry of Finance on the public procurement
bid evaluation boards, with a view to stricter control of prices;
*  launching of the recruitment of independent observers for the public procurement bid
evaluation boards in the health and education sectors;
* modification of the articles of the public procurement code, referring to the procedure
of limited biddingl0 with a view to eliminating abuse of this procedure;
* modification of the approval procedure for public contracts to include approval by the
Minister of Finance for all contracts with a value above FCFA 500 million. This
decree however was modified again in December 2002: the Minister of Finance signs
all contracts between FCFA 10 and 50 millions, and the President signs all contracts
above this threshold, which is likely to generate significant bottlenecks in the
approval circuit.
51.   Expected results by the end of SAC V. By the end of SAC V, Chad expects to achieve
the following:
*  finalization of a new Public Procurement Code, using the outcomes of the discussion
of the first draft and the results of the audit of the five largest procurement contracts;
*  submission of the Code to Parliament including the independent procurement appeals
system; and preparation of the draft implementation decrees;
* preparation, publication and dissemination of the accompanying standard bidding
documents;
*  improvement - notably by publishing invitations to tender for bids, reference prices,
outcomes of bidding procedures, outcomes of appeals and blacklisted firms -, and
regular publication of the quarterly procurement bulletin with incorporation of the
minutes of the monthly meetings on budget execution;
*  launching of the design and implementation of a computerized monitoring system for
follow up of procurement contracts;
* nomination and effective functioning of independent observers in the procurement bid
evaluation boards in the health and education sectors, as evidenced by their reports;
*  effective launching of the curriculum for public procurement in the school for public
administration;
*  launching of the audit of the public procurement contracts and system for 2002 which
will include proposals, if needed, of measures to improve the methodology for
auditing the procurement contracts and system.
52.   Expected results by the end of the three-year reform program. By the end of the
medium-term reforrn program, Chad expects to achieve the following results:
 This procedure provides for bidding by direct invitation without open advertisement.



- 29-
* full application of the new Public Procurement Code and its associated decrees;
*  a fully operational and independent procurement appeals system;
*  systematic use of standard bidding documents following their wide dissemination,
including through the internet;
*  effective and timely monitoring of procurement contracts through a computerized
system;
*  effective functioning of independent observers in the procurement bid evaluation
boards in the health and education sectors;
* quarterly publication, in hardcopy and on the internet of a procurement bulletin
containing invitations to bids, outcomes of bids, outcomes of appeals, reference price
lists, and blacklisted firms, and minutes of the meetings on budget execution in
priority ministries;
*  graduation of the first batch of public procurement specialists from the school for
public administration;
*  an operational system for accrediting procurement specialists;
*  annual publication of an audit of procurement contracts and the functioning of the
procurement system.
Strengthen the transparency and accountability of the civil service
53.   Issues. With about 34,000 public employees (excluding defense), Chad's civil service is
of moderate size. However, the organization and staffing of several key ministries is not focused
on their poverty reduction mission. Skill levels are ill matched with job requirements and the
incentive system  does not promote results-oriented service delivery.  Staff are unduly
concentrated in urban areas. All these factors seriously affect the quality and poverty-orientation
of basic public services. Moreover, human resource management suffers from the absence of
clear rules for recruitment and promotion and from inconsistencies between the civil service files
and the payroll, both maintained manually.
54.   Reform strategy. The Government adopted a civil service reform program in 1998,
aimed at improving the quality of human resources in priority sectors, providing adequate
incentives and a productive working environment, increasing the accountability of staff to
beneficiaries, and putting in place transparent staff rules, regulations, and records. This reform
program was extensively discussed with all stakeholders and its implementation has been
launched. A census of public sector workers was finalized in November 2000 and its results will
provide the basis for the creation of harmonized and computerized payroll and civil service
records. A new civil service status Law introducing competitive recruitment and merit-based
advancement has been adopted by Parliament and the first implementation decrees have been
prepared. The medium-tern program supported by SAC IV and SAC V provides for the
continued implementation of the Government's civil service reform program including:



- 30-
*  review of organization charts and staffing plans for key ministries" , taking into
account their respective sector development strategies and including, if deemed
necessary, a voluntary departure program;
*  update of the regulatory framework to introduce competitive recruitment and merit-
based advancement;
*  improvement of the transparency of civil service and payroll records.
55.   Results achieved with the support of SAC IV. By the end of SAC IV, the following
actions had been completed:
*  adoption by Parliament of the new civil service status law introducing competitive
recruitment and merit-based advancement;
*  preparation of the first implementation decrees accompanying the new law;
*  recruitment of the firm which will carry out the audit of 9 pilot ministries covering
organizational, procedural and human resources aspects; the audit was initially
expected to be completed by the end of SAC IV and this action represented a trigger
for further program-lending; significant delays occurred in the preparation of the
terms of reference of the study; in addition, two ministries were added to the first
round of the audit and a revised timetable for the audit was defined taking into
account the need to design and adopt a methodology for the audit before launching
the work itself; hence the audit could not be completed as scheduled and is now
scheduled to take place in calendar year 2003;
* continuation of the update of the payroll based on the 2000 census of public sector
workers and production of the list of people included in the payroll by ministry.
56.   Expected results by the end of SAC V. By the end of SAC V, it is expected that:
*  implementation decrees relating to the new civil service status Law will be issued
(except the decree on allocations which will follow the audit of the ministries);
  the methodology for the audit will be defined and adopted and basic data and
documents will be collected for the audit of nine pilot ministries covering
organizational, procedural and human resources aspects;
o  the 2000 census of civil servants will be updated; and harmonized and computerized
payroll and civil service files will be completed with quarterly production of the list
of people included in the payroll files by ministry.
57.   Expected results by the end of the three-year reform program. By the end of the three-
year reform program it is expected that:
o audit will be completed for the 9 pilot ministries and action plans will be
implemented to address their deficiencies;
The Ministries of Finance; Planning, Development and Cooperation; Education; Higher Education; Health; Social Action
and Welfare; Agriculture; Livestock; and Justice.



- 31-
*  key ministries will be reorganized to focus on their poverty reduction mission and
staffed with higher quality staff;
*  competitive recruitment and merit-based advancement mechanisms will be fully
operational in key ministries, including a performance based evaluation system;
*  harmonized and computerized civil service and payroll files will be fully operational
and regularly updated.
F.   Promote Sustained Growth in the Rural Sector
58.   Issues. The vast majority of Chad's rural population lives on less than one dollar per
person per day. Cotton is the most important cash-earner for about 350,000 rural farm families
residing in the south of Chad. Cotton is produced on small family farms, and the industry
exhibits a structure of vertical integration, dominated by Cotontchad, the only cotton processing
company, which is majority Government-owned. Cotontchad (i) provides farm inputs to farmers
on credit and manages the distribution of such inputs; (ii) purchases, collects and transports seed
cotton from the villages to its 9 cotton ginneries; (iii) gins the seed cotton, and commercializes
the lint; and (iv) produces oil from the cotton seeds, and soap. The producer price for seed
cotton is uniform throughout the country.
59.   Despite cotton's importance for a large number of poor farm families, cotton revenues are
low. The average yield of seed cotton is about 650 kg/ha in Chad compared to 1,100 kg/ha in
Mali. Cotton farmers receive a low producer price, reaching about 49 percent of the lint
equivalent world price for cotton in 1999/2000 compared to an average of 80 percent in
Zimbabwe over the period 1994-97.   This is due to several factors, including: (i) low
productivity associated to degradation of soil; (ii) the absence of private markets for agricultural
inputs; (iii) high transactions costs related to insufficient transport infrastructure; (iv) the
inadequacy of research and extension services; and (v) an industrial structure for the marketing
and processing of cotton in which farmers have little bargaining power. Recently, cotton
activities have also suffered from the continuous decline of international cotton prices as a result
of subsidies in OECD countries. This has created an additional financing need of US$ 24
million12 in 2002. In view of these constraints and complementary to ongoing programs in the
areas of transport and research and extension, SAC IV and SAC V support a profound reform of
the industrial structure of the cotton sector with a view to improving farmers' bargaining power.
60.   Reform strategy. In December 1999, after consultation with a wide set of stakeholders,
the Government adopted a cotton sector reform strategy - the primary objective of which is to
improve the incomes of cotton farmers. The strategy consists of a process of institutional change
to enhance farmers' bargaining power by (i) strengthening the role of farmers' associations; and
(ii) disengaging the state from cotton production and reviewing the industrial structure of the
cotton sector. Learning from the difficulties in the implementation of other cotton reform
programs, especially Benin and Mali, Chad has decided to pay particular attention to consensus
building among all stakeholders all along the reform path.
12 Source: IMF. Chad - Letter of Intent, Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies.



- 32-
Strengthen the role of cotton farmers' organizations
61.   Since 1999, the authorities have launched an extensive program to support cotton
farmers' associations, the structure of which is described in Box 10.
62.   Reform strategy. The role of cotton farmers' organizations will further be strengthened
by:
* strengthening the institutional and organizational capacities of farmers' associations;
* improving farmers' access to information and knowledge of the economic
environment, notably on cotton;
* improving farmers' access to inputs and management services;
* ensuring farmers' participation in the design and monitoring of the state's divestiture
from the cotton industry, and its institutional reform.
63.   Results achieved with the support ofSACIV
* to achieve these goals, 9 CCLs have been created through a system of elections in the
5,000 cotton producing villages, and these CCL have obtained legal recognition. The
transparent elections of members of the CCLs have been held;
* the state has withdrawn from price-setting in the sector, and the producers' prices are
henceforth deter-mined by the Comiteparitaire in which the CCLs and Cotontchad are
represented equally. Prices are determined on the basis of a scheme that links the
producer price to the fiber-equivalent world cotton price;
* A diagnostic of the institutional capacities of the CCL has been reviewed and
approved;
* a baseline survey on the status of knowledge of market conditions among cotton
farmers has been completed;
* an information structure for farmers on cotton market conditions is operational and
has started to disseminate information to cotton farmers;
* farmers have contributed to the ex-ante qualitative poverty and social impact analysis
of the cotton sector reform program.
64.   Expected results at the end of SAC V. At the end of SAC V, the following results are
expected:
* action plan to strengthen the institutional capacities of the CCL will be adopted and
implemented; village and cantons representatives will be elected;
* action plan to increase access to agricultural inputs and services, in partnership with
private entrepreneurs, will be implemented;
* status of knowledge of cotton farmers on cotton market conditions will be regularly
monitored through follow-up surveys;
* market information campaign will continue;



- 33 -
* study on how to promote private management service providers will be completed
and the strategy implemented;
*  farmers will continue to participate in the ex-ante poverty and social impact analysis
of the cotton sector reform program, notably through the baseline survey which will
be carried out as part of the ex-ante quantitative analysis;
e  farmers' associations will participate in the design of the program to divest the state
from Cotontchad through the preparation of a farmers' forum on alternative options
for privatization.
65.   Expected results at the end of the medium-term program. At the end of the three year
period, Chad hopes to achieve:
* strengthened cotton farmers' associations;
*  improved knowledge among farmers regarding market conditions for cotton;
* improved access to agricultural inputs and services for cotton farrners and increase in
the number of private management service providers;
* continued contribution of farmers' associations to the monitoring of the cotton sector
reform program through their participation in the ex-post poverty and social impact
analysis.
Disengage the state from cotton production and review the industrial structure of the cotton
sector
66.   Reform  strategy.  The disengagement of the state from   Cotontchad and the
reorganization of the sector's industrial structure is planned to proceed in two stages with the
privatization of its oil and soap activities preceding the privatization of its other commnercial
activities, including the ginning facilities.



- 34-
Box 10. Insights from the Ex-ante Qualitative Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
The Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) of the Chad Cotton Sector Reform consists in ex-ante
and ex-post qualitative and quantitative analyses of intended and unintended, positive and negative, short-
term and long term, consequences of the sector reforrn on the welfare and livelihood of different
categories of stakeholders. The final objective of the PSIA is to assist the Government of Chad in the
choice between alternative scenanos of privatization of the parastatal Cotontchad by taking into
consideration the heterogeneity of social and poverty impacts of each scenario. The first phase of the ex
ante qualitative analysis was launched in May 2002, for two months. It consisted of a Social Impact
Assessment covering 27 villages of the cotton-producing area. Its aim is to provide the Government of
Chad with a sense of the social and economic context and main constraints affecting cotton production
and commercialization. In parallel, an Institutional Analysis focused on formal and informnal constraints
in the transmission channels of key resources (information, money, cotton, inputs). The second phase
consisting of a Social Risk Analysis and Equity of Opportunity Analysis will restrict the focus to some
best-case scenarios as identified by the Government in the meantime. In March 2003, the ex ante
quantitative analysis is scheduled to be launched. It will consist of a household survey based on and
informed by the results of the qualitative analysis. Ex post analyses will start after one scenario of
privatization is adopted and implementation launched.
Cotton constitutes the only source of revenue for farmers living in Southern Chad. In the words of
producers themselves, cotton represents 'the only way out of poverty'. Nonetheless, the PSIA has
identified a number of constraints, which prevent producers from enjoying the results of their hard work.
Among others, the reduction of their income due to unfair evaluation of the quality of cotton; the
Cotontchad-introduced notion of collective responsibility on deficit in cotton production leading to social
conflicts within villages and households; long delays in payments to cotton farmers; bad quality, high
costs and insufficient quantity for agricultural inputs; devastation of cotton fields by certain categones of
cattle-herders; lack of information and training about cotton production and commercialization; the
absence of rural and other roads linking farmers to markets and so on. In addition, lack of transparency in
the workings of newly-introduced institutions (Comite de Coordination Locale, CCL), of village-level
intermediaries of Cotontchad and in commercialization procedures (Marche auto-ggrd) has led to
systematic corruption, further reducing farmers' gains on cotton, their access to critical resources and
their bargaining power.
Nonetheless, there exists no real alternative to cotton production. Hence the need to introduce solutions
to the above-mentioned problems through a restructuring of the sector. At present, only recommendations
of a preliminary nature can be put forward. These regard: (1) the active participation of men and women
cotton producers in all stages of cotton commercialization; (2) the setting up of all preconditions
necessary for a competitive cotton market to exist.



- 35 -
67.     This two-staged process proceeds as follows:
*   legal separation between Cotontchad and its oil and soap division (DHS) followed by
the privatization of the autonomous HS;
*   completion of a study to identify and analyze the alternative scenarios for privatizing
Cotontchad's activities;'3
*   completion of an ex-ante qualitative and quantitative poverty and social impact study
with respect to the privatization scenarios;
*   organization of a farmers' forum and an investors' forum to ensure that their views
are fully taken into account;
*   adoption and implementation of the final privatization scenario;
*   launching of an ex-post monitoring of the impact of the reform program.
68.    Results achieved with the support of SA CIV
*   to  attain these objectives, a technical and     financial audit of Cotontchad was
completed. On the basis of this audit, an action plan was adopted and a Controller
General was recruited to assist Cotontchad, until its privatization, in implementing
this plan;
*   legal separation between DHS and Cotontchad in preparation of the privatization of
the autonomous HS has been completed and the bidding process for the privatization
of HS has been launched; technical and financial bids were opened in the second
semester 2002 and the bidding process is scheduled to be fally finalized early 2003
with the signature of the convention;
*   the treasury situation of Cotontchad was audited; an action plan identifying cost-
cutting measures for the operation of Cotontchad was prepared for implementation
during the 2002/2003 season, coupled with an assessment of the Controller General's
mandate and a proposal to revise his terms of reference to accompany the
implementation of the action plan;
*   a draft of the study identifying alternative scenarios for the state's divestiture has
been completed in December 2002;
*   the first stage of the qualitative and the institutional ex-ante poverty analyses of the
alternative scenarios has been completed.
13 The altemative scenarios may include, for example: (i) the pnvatization of Cotontchad as currently structured, preserving the
vertically integrated structure of the industry as well as its de facto monopsony position in seed cotton marketing and a monopoly
on fiber marketing; (ii) the break-up and sale of Cotontchad into a few entities comprising several ginning factories, preserving
the vertically integrated structure, but allowing for some competition in prices or services; (iii) the sale of each of the 9 ginning
factories separately, allowing for even more competition in pnces or services; or (iv) the privatization of the various functions of
Cotontchad separately (distribution of inputs, transport, ginning, commercialization), essentially abandoning the structure of
vertical integration.



- 36-
69.   Expected results at the end of SAC V. By the end of SAC V it is expected that:
*  the oil and soap factory will be sold to a strategic private investor;
*  baseline survey of the ex-ante quantitative analysis will be completed;
*  cost-reducing measures will have been implemented during the cotton production and
marketing season;
*  after the finalization of the scenario study, a farners' forum and a private investors'
forum will be prepared, which will be informed by the results of the ex-ante poverty
and social impact analysis.
70.   Expected results by the end of the medium-term program. By the end of the three year
period, it is expected that Chad will achieve the following:
*  selection of a divestiture scenario for the ginning activities of Cotontchad made by
taking into account (i) the ex-ante poverty and social impact analysis; (ii) the views of
producers' associations as presented during the farmers' forum; and (iii) the views of
private investors as presented during the investors' forum;
*  complete divestiture of the state from the commercial activities of Cotontchad;
*  implementation  of regulatory measures accompanying the privatization  of
Cotontchad;
*  ex-post monitoring of the impact of the reform program on a regular basis and the
adoption of adjustments to the program if necessary.
4.    THE PROPOSED CREDIT
71.   The proposed credit is a core operation to implement two of the five strategic axes of
Chad's full PRSP and to implement the World Bank CAS. It is also essential for establishing the
financial safeguards for future program-lending ahead of the advent of petroleum revenues in
end 2003. As detailed below, Chad completed, prior to Negotiations, several key prior actions in
the areas of governance, public resource management and cotton sector reform.  The
Government has also agreed to benchmarks that would form the basis for assessing progress in
the implementation of the reform program and triggers for the preparation of subsequent
program-lending. In Annex 2, which presents the Governnent's action matrix, both the actions
satisfied prior to negotiations and the triggers for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
have been highlighted [the former in bold and the latter by (*)]. Most prior actions derive from
the triggers for further program lending identified in the President's Report of SAC IV and
displayed in Box 7 of the present document. Most triggers have been completed. As highlighted
in Section III-B, C, D, E and F, some triggers, however, have been refined during the course of
SAC IV, partly because the initial timetable was too ambitious. Some delays also occurred in
implementing the program. This is the case, notably, of the action relating to the audit of seven
ministries. During program implementation, it was decided that the audit would cover 9
ministries instead of 7. In addition the launching of the recruitment process for the audit
company was delayed for several months. Conversely, compared to the triggers identified in the
President's Report for SAC IV, some additional prior actions were agreed upon during program



- 37-
implementation on the basis of recent analysis such as the PER, the audit of the expenditures
funded with HIPC resources and recent developments in the cotton sector.
72.   The selected actions and triggers for subsequent lending will assist the authorities to be
better prepared to manage the petroleum revenue and to cope with the challenge of reforming the
cotton sector in a difficult external environment.  All prior actions and triggers for the
preparation of subsequent program-lending have been defined to satisfy one or several of the
following criteria: (i) they are a critical step in a process of reforms launched over the past 2
years and to be continued in the medium-term; (ii) they engage the independent institutions that
are destined to provide the checks and balances on the use of public resources; and (iii) they
contribute to the curtailing of opportunities for abuse of public resources. The engagement of
independent agents of restraint is discussed in Box 11.
A.   Reform Measures, Actions Taken Prior to Negotiations
The Government has implemented the following prior actions:
73.   Improving Governance
* adoption of the National Governance Strategy (including measures with regard to the
judiciary, decentralization, the ethics of public service, public disclosure of
information, and audit and control of public expenditures) by the HCI and
organization of a seminar with a wide set of stakeholders to discuss the NGS;
*  satisfactory implementation of the NGS as witnessed by (i) publication of critical
reports by the Auditor General's Office in particular the audit of the signing bonus
(www.igf.mef.gouv.td/) (ii) completion of the operational and financial audit of the
customs services and the launching of a survey on users' perception of customs
services ; and (iii) development of an action plan for the definition of a policy on the
public disclosure of information;
* the Petroleum Revenue Oversight and Control Board (CCSRP) has adopted its rules
of procedures (reglement interieur) and published its annual report for 2001 as well
as its first 2 quarterly reports for 2002 (htti://ccsip.td ). It has also prepared a first
draft of its manual of procedures;
* preparation of a stakeholder seminar to discuss the implementation of SAC IV,
particularly in the areas of govemance. The seminar assessed what worked well,
what went wrong, and how lessons could be used in future programs to enhance
transparency, participation, accountability and adherence to the rule of law.
74.   Improving Public Resource Management
* submission to Parliament of the Budget Settlement Law for fiscal year 2000 and the
transmission of the Govermment's accounts for fiscal year 2001 to the Auditor
General's Office;



- 38-
*  completion under the direction of the health and education public expenditure
committees of the tracking expenditure study from the central level to the basic
health and education facilities, and the preparation of a draft associated action plan to
improve the level of resources reaching the health and education facilities;
o  introduction of a monthly progress report on the execution of the budget
distinguishing between commitment, order to pay and payment of expenditures, and
distinguishing specifically the Ministries of Education, Health, Public Works, and
Justice; the distribution of this report to the four ministries;
*  execution of the non-salary operational budget for the Ministries of Education,
Health, and Public Works at 95 percent on a commitment basis at the end of fiscal
year 2001;
*  submission to Parliament of the draft law establishing a mechanism for subsidizing
community teachers.
75.   Improving the Efficiency and Transparency of Public Procurement
*  modification of the articles of the public procurement code referring to the procedure
of limited bidding14 with a view to eliminating abuse of this procedure;
*  finalization of a draft new  Public Procurement Code including independent
procurement appeals system; and the organization of a stakeholder seminar to discuss
the draft;
*  completion of an audit of the five biggest procurement contracts for 2001 and the
adoption of a methodology for the annual audit of procurement contracts as well as
the procurement system;
* launching of the recruitment of independent observers for the public procurement bid
evaluation boards in the health and education sectors;
e  regular publication of a quarterly procurement bulletin.
76.   Stren2thening the Transparency and Accountability of the Civil Service
* promulgation of the new civil service status Law introducing competitive recruitment
and merit-based advancement;
*  signature of contract with the auditor who will carry out the audit for 9 pilot
ministries covering operational, procedural and human resources aspects;
* preparation by the Payroll Department of the Ministry of Economy and Finance of a
quantitative overview of the salaries and staffing by Ministry.
i4 This procedure provides for bidding by direct invitation without open advertisement.



- 39-
77.   Strengthening  cotton farmers orzanizations. and disengaging the state from cotton
production:
* launching of the ex-ante poverty and social impact analysis;
* launching of the bidding process for the privatization of the Oil and Soap Company;
* preparation of an action plan identifying cost-cutting measures for the operation of
Cotontchad for implementation during the 2002-2003 cotton season, coupled with an
assessment of the Controller General's past mandate and a proposal to revise his
terms of reference to accompany the implementation of the action plan.
B. Triggers for Subsequent Operations
78.   To enhance transparency, accountability, adherence to the rule of law and participation;
improve the preparation, execution and ex-post monitoring, control and audit of the budget;
make public procurement more efficient and transparent; strengthen the transparency and
accountability of the civil service; strengthen the cotton farmers' organizations, and disengage
the state from cotton production, the Government has agreed to the following triggers for
subsequent programn-lending:
79.   Improving Governance
*  satisfactory progress in the implementation of the NGS on the basis of progress
report, as evidenced by (i); the review by the Government (Haut Comite
Interministeriel) of the first draft of a policy for the public disclosure of information;
(ii) the publication and wide availability of the Government's 2003 Budget Law; (iii)
publication on the Auditor General's Office's website of its report on the audit of the
use of HIPC funds between May 2001 and May 2002, and (iv) publication on the
Auditor General's Office's website of its report on the execution of the 2002 Budget
Law;
*  finalization of a survey on the users' perception of customs services after validation
in a seminar; adoption and publication of an action plan to further improve customs
services, including the reduction of the involvement of third parties in customs
operations;
*  launching of the studies relating to the legal and institutional framework of the
decentralization process:
- Study on the modalities for creating rural communities
- Study on the training policy for elected representatives and for staff in charge of the
decentralization process
- Study on land ownership issues;
*  finalization and publication of the procedural manual of CCSRP, recruitment of two
analysts; and;
*  satisfactory use of the remainder of the Petroleum Agreement Signing Bonus as
confirmed by the College.



I



- 40-
80.   Improving Public Resource Management:
* presentation in the 2003 Budget documents submitted to Parliament of a medium-
term macro-economic and expenditure framework and medium-term expenditure
plans for the health and education sectors;
*  launching of the preparation of medium term expenditure plans for the health,
education, justice, housing and public works sectors which will be submitted to
Parliament with the 2004 Budget Law; launching of the preparation of public
expenditure reviews and medium term expenditure plans in the rural development
sector (agriculture, livestock, water and environment) for submission to Parliament
with the 2004 Budget Law;
* continued monthly publication of the report on the execution of the budget,
distinguishing between commitment, order to pay and payment and distinguishing
specifically the Ministries of Education, Health, Public Works, Housing and Justice;
* review of budget execution in priority ministries (including Title V) every two
months, with the Ministry of Finance, the Procurement Directorate, the Procurement
Commission, and donors if necessary, and preparation of minutes for publication;
* production of public procurement plans in priority ministries every two months;
review during the meetings on budget execution and preparation of minutes for
publication;
* effective launching of the training program for all agents in charge of budget
preparation and execution;
* hiring of the required number of qualified staff in the Budget Directorate, including
macroeconomists for the economic forecasting sub-directorate (sous-direction de la
prevision) and qualified executives for the investment sub-directorate (sous-direction
de l 'investissement);
* identification of the needs in terms of qualified staff in the area of budget preparation
and procurement in the Ministries of Health, Education, Higher Education, Housing,
Public Works, Justice, Agriculture, Livestock and Water and Environment; hiring of
required staff or sub-contracting of some activities if necessary,
* completion of the first phase of the implementation of the Integrated Financial
Management Information System (design of the work programn, installation of the
computerized platform for the development of the software and of a training room
with about fifteen computers, definition of technical requirements and main changes
needed to adapt the Burkina software and launching of the preparation of the budget
for a few Ministries with training of the agents involved); launching of users' training
at the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury;
* submission to Parliament of the 2001 Budget Settlement Law before the adoption of
the 2003 Budget Law, and submission to the Auditor General's Office of the accounts
for fiscal year 2002 after reconciliation of the accounts;
* finalization and launching of implementation of the action plan to improve the arrival
of public expenditures to health and education facilities.



- 41-
81.   Improving the Efficiency and Transparency of Public Procurement
* submission to Parliament of the new procurement code, including the texts creating
an independent appeals system, and preparation of draft implementation decrees;
* improvement and continued regular publication of the quarterly procurement bulletin,
with incorporation of the minutes of the monthly meetings on budget execution;
* launching of an audit for the 2002 procurement contracts and system.
82.   Strengthening the transparency and accountability of the civil service
* issuance of the implementation decrees relating to the new civil service status law,
including the status for special professions, remuneration and missions and the
implementation decrees for performance evaluation, training and recruitment;
* adoption of methodology for the audit of the nine pilot ministries covering
organizational, procedural and human aspects, and collection of basic data and
documentation;
* final update of the payroll based on the update of the 2000 census of civil servants
and the list of all personnel included in the payroll; monthly update and quarterly
review of this list by Ministry (December 2002, March 2003, June 2003).
83.   Strengthening the cotton farmers organizations, and disengaze the state from cotton
production:
* adoption of an action plan for the institutional strengthening of cotton farrmers
organizations (CCL);
* full implementation of the cost-cutting measures for the operation of Cotontchad;
o preparation of the investors' forum and farmers' forum to discuss the scenarios for
the privatization of Cotontchad and the poverty and social impact of the reforms in
the cotton sector.



- 42-
Box 11. Engaging Independent Agents of Restraint - The Case of the Auditor General's Office and
the Quarterly Public Procurement Bulletin
To improve govemance, especially in the context of the advent of petroleum revenues in end 2003, it is
critical that the independent institutions that are destined to provide the checks and balances on the use of
public resources - including the executive, the legislative, the judiciary, the press and civil society - be
strengthened in their role, especially given the youth of most of these institutions in Chad. In view of
this, SAC V and the medium-term program that it supports, seek to engage these agents of restraint in
implementing the program as witnessed by the prior actions and triggers for subsequent program lending.
Over the past 9 months two of these institutions have made good progress in confirming their independent
role in providing checks and balances: the Auditor General's Office, and the Public Procurement
Directorate by way of the regular publication of its Public Procurement Bulletin.
The Auditor General's Office
The Auditor General's Office, which is part of Chad's Supreme Court, was created in 1999 and made
operational in 2000. The Office is staffed by an Auditor General and five counsels. Despite its youth and
limited human resources, the Office has already established itself as an effective institution. In 2001 it
launched an annual audit of the Government accounts, starting with the submission to Parliament in
November 2001 of its report on the execution of the 2000 Budget Law. This has permitted the
Government to submit the 2000 Budget Settlement Law to Parliament within 12 months following the
closing of the budget exercise - an exception for francophone African countnes -, an accomplishment
that was achieved again with the 2001 Budget Settlement Law. The Auditor General's Office has also
recently completed audits of the off-budget use of the Petroleum Agreement Signing Bonus and the use of
the HIPC funds between May 2001 and May 2002. These audits are publicly available at
httn://www.igf.mef.Ad/. While there is room for improvement of the Office's auditing methodology, these
reports focus on the right issues and the Auditor General's Office has shown a remarkable capacity to
improve the quality of its work with every output. The staff of the Auditor General's Office benefit from
an intensive training program financed by the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project. To
gradually improve their auditing methodology the Office has entered into a particularly fruitful twinning
arrangement with France's Auditor General's Office.
The Public Procurement Bulletin
In September 2001, the Directorate of Public Procurement published the first issue of its quarterly Public
Procurement Bulletin and by now, four issues have been published. The Bulletin publishes calls for
tenders for bids, information on bid awards, and blacklists of firms excluded from bidding for public
procurement contracts either because of earlier irregularities or because of a failure to comply with all tax
liabilities. The Bulletin has led to a very fruitful collaboration between the Directorate of Public
Procurement and the Directorate of Taxes. The Directorate of Public Procurement provides information
on the amounts of bids awarded to firms, which the Directorate of Taxes uses as a check against firms'
declaration of earnings. Upon the identification of underreporting of tax liabilities, the Directorate of
Taxes establishes a list of firms which have incurred tax arrears and are thus prohibited from further
bidding on public contracts. This list is subsequently published in the Public Procurement Bulletin. This
collaboration has led to a modest increase in Government revenues since its establishment. Over the next
year the Procurement Directorate intends to improve the Bulletin. Among other things it plans to increase
the frequency of the publication so as to make it a more effective tool for the announcement of calls for
bids. It also wants to improve the comprehensiveness and quality of information provided regarding the
awarding of bids. The use of Internet technology has also been decided upon.



- 43 -
C.   Implementation and Monitoring
84.   As for the previous four adjustment operations, the HCI, an inter-ministerial task force
chaired by the Prime Minister and including the Ministries of Finance, Plan and Development, as
well as the line Ministries representing priority sectors, will oversee the implementation of the
proposed operation. The day-to-day monitoring of the program will be the responsibility of the
Cellule Economique in the Ministry of Plan and Development in coordination with the PRSP
Steering Committee. The basic monitoring tool will be the policy and action matrix presented in
Annex 2. IDA will regularly discuss progress on the implementation of this matrix with the
Cellule Economique and the PRSP Steering Committee, as well as with the Comite Technique de
Suivi, a committee consisting of the Director Generals of all Ministries associated with the
program and chaired by the Deputy Secretary General of the Presidency. Such setting has
proved successful in the implementation of SAC IV. Monitoring will be coordinated with other
donors, especially with the IMF, the African Development Bank, the European Union and the
French Development Agency.
85.   Monitoring of SAC V relies mainly on process-related outputs as presented in Annex 2.
Nevertheless, as specified in the Letter of Development Policy, the Government expects SAC V
to contribute to reaching the quantitative HIPC completion point triggers for the priority sectors
which are laid out in Annex 3. The 2002 and 2003 Government budgets have been formulated
with the objective of reaching these triggers. Given that the full PRS will be available in end
March 2003, it will provide guidance on the identification of quantitative outcome-related
indicators. Such indicators will be integrated in the medium term reforrn program in the context
of subsequent program-lending.
D.   Credit Administration
86.   Borrower and credit amount. The Borrower is the Republic of Chad. A single-tranche
credit of SDR 29.6 million would be made available upon effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement, anticipated for April 2003. The closing date of the credit would be August 31,
2003.
87.   Disbursement, Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. The credit will follow the
simplified procedures for structural adjustment operations as set out in OD 8.60. Disbursements
will not be linked to specific imports and there will be no procurement requirements. Once the
credit is approved by the Board, the Borrower will open and maintain a dedicated deposit
account at the Central Bank.  As the single tranche is released on effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, IDA will disburse the proceeds of the credit into the deposit
account. If after deposit in the deposit account the proceeds of the credit or any part thereof are
used for ineligible purposes, as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require
the borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the deposit account for use of eligible purposes,
or (ii) refund the amount directly to IDA. Although an audit of the use of credit funds will not be
required, IDA reserves the right to require audits at any time. The credit's administration will be
the responsibility of the Ministry of Plan and Development.
88.   Fiduciary Safeguards. As documented in the Country Procurement Assessment Report,
as well as earlier sections of this document, numerous weaknesses exist in accounting, auditing
and financial management of public funds. Nevertheless, some progress in financial management



- 44-
has been accomplished as part of SAC IV and the preparation of SAC V as well as in the context
of the PRGF-supported program. A full-scale Country Financial Accountability Assessment will
be completed in 2003 and its recommendations will be taken into account in further program-
lending.
89.   Environmental Assessment Requirements. The proposed credit is subject to OD 8.60
and hence no environmental categorization applies. Implementation of the cotton sector reform
program may have enviromnental implications due to the environmental liabilities associated
with Cotontchad's factories, as well as a potential increase in cotton production and attendant
fertilizer and pesticide use. Hence, an environmental audit of the DHS and Cotontchad plants
has been launched and will be conducted ahead of the completion of the respective privatization
processes. The bidding process for recruiting the auditor has been launched. In addition, issues
regarding the use of fertilizers and especially pesticides will be addressed in the context of the
implementation of an Agricultural Services Project under preparation.
90.   Poverty and Social Impact Analysis.  Both the governance and public resource
management components of the proposed credit are expected to have a significant positive
impact on poverty reduction. The careful analysis of public expenditures and the elaboration of
sector-medium term expenditure plans will improve the poverty focus of public expenditures and
will steer the effective use of petroleum revenues for poverty reduction. The improved
management of public resources will enhance the efficiency, transparency and quality of public
spending. An engagement of the independent institutions providing checks and balances on the
use of public monies, the strengthened control and audit, the stricter adherence to the rule of law
and the fight against the abuse of power will all contribute to ensuring a better alignment
between budget allocations and actual public spending in the field. Together these factors will
allow for expanding basic services as well as for enhancing their quality and increasing their
focus on poverty reduction. This will be especially important for women and girls who currently
suffer most from poor access to quality services in education and health.
91.   The cotton sector component of the proposed credit touches so many poor people in a
direct way that it is deemed necessary to conduct an in depth ex-ante and ex-post poverty and
social impact analysis. The first stage of an initial qualitative ex-ante poverty and social impact
analysis has been completed and after the identification of the alternative scenarios for the state's
divestiture from Cotontchad it will be updated to analyze scenario-specific PSLA issues before
the adoption of the final scenario. This will allow the Government and other stakeholders to take
the results of the ex-ante analysis into account when making a final decision on the privatization
scenario for Cotontchad. Following the state's divestiture from Cotontchad, the cotton reform
program will be monitored by regularly surveying a sub-sample of cotton producing households
interviewed in the context of the National Household Survey. The results of the ex-post analysis
will serve to realign the reform program if necessary.
92.   Borrower involvement and commitment. The proposed program is based on the PRSP
which has been developed in a consultative process involving both the Government, civil society
and the population at large. The specific elements of the proposed program were prepared by the
Govermment in full coordination with the PRSP Steering Committee. In addition, most of the
individual components of the proposed agenda, including civil service and cotton sector reform,
have been widely discussed with all stakeholders. Over the past year, ownership of the
governance agenda - which was very tentative during SAC IV preparation - has evolved



-45 -
considerably. This is mainly due to three factors. First, civil society and the population at large
have squarely identified improved govemance as one of the highest priorities for poverty
reduction in the context of the PRSP consultations - as adequately reflected in the PRSP.
Second, the intense dialogue around the misuse of the petroleum agreement signing bonus and
irregularities in public procurement - both with the Bretton Woods institutions and in the local
press - has created a climate of frank discussion of governance issues. Third, in the context of
defining the NGS, a broad set of stakeholders has reflected on the concept of good govemance;
the constraints to improved security, justice for all and better public service delivery; and the
actions needed to tackle these impediments. In sum, better govemance has become a broadly
discussed theme and a widely cited pre-condition for development. Nevertheless, given vested
interests, pockets of resistance against the govemance agenda continue to exist. To conclude,
ownership of the proposed program is broad for most elements of the program and growing for
its governance dimension.
E.   Benefits and Risks
93.   Benefits. Successful implementation of the reform program will result in better
govemance including stricter adherence to the rule of law and more transparent and accountable
use of public resources. It will improve the Government's efficiency and poverty reduction
focus in delivering services in the priority sectors, including health, education, basic
infrastructure, and justice. It will contribute to the efficient and transparent use of oil revenues
for poverty reduction. It will lead to increased bargaining power for cotton farmers. Finally, it
will complement and enhance the impact of other Bank interventions, especially the Petroleum
Development and Pipeline Project, and its associated petroleum revenue management program,
ongoing and future operations in the health, education, transport and agriculture sectors, and a
proposed community development project.
94.   Risks. There are substantial risks to the proposed operation. First, the implementation of
the government's program and the related budget depends on the reduction of tensions in the
sub-region and rebel activities in some areas of the country. However, ongoing peace efforts
should contribute to mitigate this risk. Second, consistent implementation of the proposed
agenda will depend on continued strengthening of the commitment to improved governance.
While this commitment has clearly grown stronger in the recent past, it remains fragile. To
address this risk, SAC V remains heavily focused on better governance and improved public
resource management. Third, the cotton sector reform program, which affects about 350,000
poor farm families, is inherently complex as it is being implemented in an environment of
depressed world cotton prices and barely functional rural markets. As a result of subsidies in
part I countries, the continuing decline in world cotton prices may affect the viability of Chad's
cotton sector altogether and thus jeopardize the proposed reform program. To mitigate the risks
involved, a study has been launched to identify the most appropriate scenario for State's
divestiture from Cotontchad, taking into account the difficult context of the reform. Moreover, a
comprehensive ex-ante and ex-post Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (see Box 10) is being
conducted. The PSIA will assist the Government of Chad in assessing the impact of alternative
reform scenarios on the welfare of various stakeholders, integrating the possible decline in cotton
world prices. The results of the PSIA will feed into the design of the reform program and will
allow for ex-post adjustments as needed.



- 46-
5.    COORDINATION WITH THE IMF, THE AFDB AND OTHER DONORS
95.   A three-year PRGF supported program was approved in January 2000 and its fourth
review was approved by the IMF Executive Board together with the third annual program in
October 2002. The design of SAC V was very carefully coordinated with the IMF. The Fund's
program focuses on revenue-related measures while the proposed credit focuses on expenditure
management. Both programs focus on improved governance, and governance-related measures
supported under the IMF program are spelled out in the policy and action matrix presented in
Annex 2.
96.   The African Development Bank is also providing financing for the proposed government
program through budgetary support. The European Commission is providing technical assistance
in support of the budget cycle reform program. Work in support of the PRSP was coordinated
between the Bank, the IMF and a host of donors, especially the European Commission.
6.    COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
97.    The proposed Credit complies with all Bank policies.



Chad Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit
Annexes
Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2: SAC V Policy and Action Matrix
Annex 3: Chad - Progress toward Achieving the HIPC Initiative Completion Point Triggers
Annex 4: Chad - Expenditure Accountability Assessment Update
Annex 5: Chad - Relations with the International Monetary Fund
Annex 6: Chad - At a Glance
Annex 7: Chad - Social Indicators
Annex 8: Chad - Key Economic Indicators
Annex 9: Chad - Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 10: Timetable for Key Processing Events and Task Team Members
Annex 11: Chad Country Map






REPUBLIC OF CHAD                      UNITY-WORK-PROGRESS
MINISTRY OF PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
AND COOPERATION
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FIFTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC V)
(IDA)
N'Djamena, January 24, 2003






Annex I
Page 2 of 13
1.   Introduction
1.   In the context of the Three-Year Program financed under the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF), Chad made great progress in terms of macroeconomic and financial
stabilization over the 2000-2002 period, with the help of a fourth structural adjustment credit
from IDA, the European Union's structural adjustment support program, a structural
adjustment subsidy from France and a credit from the African Development Fund (ADF).
Structural reforms were Introduced In order to remove obstacles hampering economic
growth and limiting access to economic opportunity for most of the population. The National
Poverty Reduction Strategy and the National Strategy for Good Govemance, which are
policy framework papers for the medium- and long-term assistance provided by Chad's
development partners, were drawn up and approved by the Govemment. In order to pursue
the reform program so as to be able to implement both national strategies simultaneously,
the authorities wish to strengthen it by Introducing IDA's 5th Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC V). Based on a global strategy of poverty reduction, this program will integrate the
Govemment's economic, financial and social policies.
2.    The development, finalization and implementation of the National Poverty Reduction
Strategy, which is generally In keeping with the conclusions of the Geneva Round Table
donors' meeting (October 1998), were participatory and labor-intensive In that they involved
various levels of reflection contributed by a broad sampling of stakeholders in Chadian
society and among the development partners. The interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (I-PRSP) drawn up by the Chadian authorities and discussed by the partners in 2000
was the basic element that enabled the country to arrive at the decision point under the
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. It also served as a basis for coordinating
the Govemment's economic, financial and social policies and for obtaining Interim
assistance from Chad's external partners. Indeed, the essential goal of the PRSP, which is
In the final preparation phase, is to reduce poverty by accelerating sustainable economic
growth and enhancing the State's capacity to carry out its essential functions with regard to
service provision in the priority sectors (i.e., education, health, social welfare, basic
Infrastructure and rural development) and the institutions involved in good govemance (i.e.,
the Auditor General's Office, Government auditors, the Ministry of Justice, the Commission
on Monitoring and Oversight of Petroleum Revenues (College de Contr6le et de Surveillance
des Revenus Petroliers, CCSRP), and the Directorate General for Procurement). The 5th
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC V), the primary goal of which is to support the priorites
set out in the PRSP, therefore has the following objectives: (i) strengthening good
governance and transparency by supporting the institutions of the Republic and of civil
society; (ii) Improving the management of public resources with a view to increasing the
poverty-reducing impact of public expenditures (e.g., by improving the budget process,
reorganizing public procurement and reforming the civil service; and (iII) eliminating barriers
to growth, especially in rural areas.
3.    On this basis, the Govemment has already prepared, in collaboration with the
Intemational Monetary Fund, a Three-Year Program (2000-2002) backed by the Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) and supported by the World Bank, the African
Development Bank (AfDB), the European Union, the UNDP and other multilateral and
bilateral partners. The Government wishes to receive support, beginning now, from IDA and
the AfDB for implementation of the next structural adjustment program (SAP).
2



Annex I
Page 3 of 13
2.    Poverty reduction strategy
4.    The National Poverty Reduction Strategy now being finalized is a coherent and
comprehensive merging of all sectoral strategies to be implemented in Chad over the next
few years in order to reduce poverty by half by the year 2015. It has emerged at a relatively
auspicious tme in terms of the international climate, given the willingness of the wealthy
countries and international institutions to assist the poor countries in combating poverty. The
national context also promises to be propitious due to the great strides made in introducing
democracy, the structural reforms initiated and the additional revenues that will result from
the exploitation of the oil fields of Miandum, Kome and Bol6bo in 2004. The Strategy is in
five parts: (i) presentation of the status of poverty; (ii) constraints and opportunities; (iii)
strategy themes and priority interventions; (iv) macroeconomic cadrage; and (v)
implementation and monitoring mechanisms.
5.    Despite the dearth of available statistics, quantitative analyses of poverty done on the
basis of the 1995 household survey of consumption, incomes and Informal activities
(Enquete sur la Consommation et le Secteur Informel au Tchad, ECOSIT) have made it
possible to estimate the thresholds for food poverty and overall poverty at 194F /day/capita
and 253F/day/capita, respectively, and their respective incidence at 41.6 percent and 43.4
percent. It emerges from this presentation that the phenomenon of poverty, although
present throughout the national territory, is variable depending on the milieu (it is more
common in rural than in urban areas), the region, the household, and the level of education
and gender of the head of household. It should be emphasized that these data will be
updated with the second ECOSIT survey, which was just begun in January 2003. In
addition, qualitative surveys carried out during the diagnostic porton of the process indlcate
that, in urban areas, access to education, health services, jobs and Income-generating
activity are among the main determinants of greater well-being. In rural areas, on the other
hand, the population attaches more importance to access to production inputs and the
development of road networks. Indeed, the participatory consultaton indicated that the main
determinants of the population's poverty include: poor govemance, the physical
inaccessibility of certain regions, inadequate infrastructure and insufficient qualified
personnel in the health and education sectors, the scarcity of safe water, lack of access to
credit and climatic vagaries that influence agriculural production.
6.    In general, the poverty described in the PRSP is symptomatic of the low level of
growth and its uneven distribution. The explanatory factors are tied in with various
constraints, including:
i). low productivity in the primary sector, and particularly in agriculture;
ii). the fragility of the country's industrial structure, which consists of only six
enterprises;
iii). the inadequacy of human resources, In quantitative and qualitative terms, due to
insufficient investment in human capital;
iv).  poor govemance, which manifests itself In the State's Inability to ensure the
security of people and property and in its weak capacity for planning and
macroeconomic management;
v).  the weight of socio-cultural traditlons that affect women, who make up 52 percent
of the population, and prevent them from participating In economic decision-
making;
vi).  the weakness of basic socioeconomic infrastructure: of 40,000 km of highways
and roads, for example, only 552 km are paved; less than 2 percent of the
population has access to electricity, which is made available at some of the
3



Annex I
Page 4 of 13
world's highest prices; and there are only 9,000 telephone lines for a population
that In 2000 was estimated to number 7.3 million;
vii). a banking system consisting of only five banks in the country's five cities.
7.    Despite these constraints, the country possesses enormous potential, such as: 39
million ha of cultivable land, of which only 2.2 million ha are exploited annually; 5.6 million ha
of irigable land, of which barely 7,000 ha are exploited; large underground aquifers;
countless mineral resources, including gold, diamonds, uranium and limestone; and
petroleum.
8.    Out of the preceding issues, five strategy themes and priority interventions have been
selected by the Government for the purpose of implementing this national poverty reduction
strategy. They are: (i) improving the social, legal, political and economic environment; (ii)
ensuring strong and sustained growth; (lii) improving human capital; (iv) improving living
conditions of vulnerable population groups and victims of HIV/AIDS; (v) restoring and
preserving the ecosystem.
2.1.  Macroeconomic and flnancial objectives
9.    Prior to the devaluation of the CFAF, the Chadian economy was in recession, with a
growth rate of -7 percent in 1993. With the January 1994 devaluation, the country renewed
its relationships with the Brefton Woods Institutions. The three-year Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) program signed in 1995 brought about average real GDP growth
of 4.7 percent over the 1995-1998 period, compared to the goal of 5 percent. The years
1999 and 2000 saw weak growth rates of -0.1 percent and -0.4 percent, respectively, due to
poor rainfall and the combined impacts of the Asian crisis, the drop in worid cotton prices,
and increased oil prices.
10.  In order to consolidate the progress made under the first program, the medium-term
growth objectives for the 2000-2002 period were set at a minimum of 5 percent of real GDP
per annum. However, due to several exogenous factors, and particularly the acceleration of
construction work on the Chad-Cameroon oil pipeline, which is slated for completion in late
July 2003, and the exploitation of petroleum from Doba in the spring of 2004, the Chadian
economy actually grew more rapidly than projected (8.5 percent in 2001 and 10.9 percent in
2002) and real GDP growth rates for 2003 and 2004 are projected to be 13.6 percent and
51.5 percent, respectively. Gross Investment is believed to have grown from 41.7 percent
of GDP in 2001 to 52.3 percent of GDP in 2002, and is expected to reach 51.9 percent in
2003, reflecting the massive escalation in private investment in the petroleum sector and in
public works. However, the downward trend in cotton prices observed since 1999 could
have major repercussions in 2002 on GDP growth in the primary sector and on cotton
growers' Incomes in 2003.
11.  Inflation averaged 12.4 percent during the year 2001 due to the cereals deficit and
the famine that plagued Chad following the drought in 2000. Average inflation is thought to
have fallen to 4.5 percent In 2002, and is expected to be 4.0 percent in 2003 and 2004, thus
confirming that the effects of price hikes caused by the 1994 devaluation are now completely
under control.
12.   Motivated by a desire to find a definitive solution to the energy crisis, the Government
signed a general management contract pertaining to the Chadian Water and Electricity
Company (Societ6 Tchadienne d'Eau et d'Electricit6, STEE) with a private group in
September 2000. In October 2002, the Govemment also received an IDA credit in the
amount of US$ 50.8 million for the construction of a new electric power plant in N'djamena,
the rehabilitation of power plants in the country's main cities, etc.
4



Annex I
Page 5 of 13
13.   The Govemment also plans to pursue its efforts to reorganize public finances. These
efforts are centered around: (i) continuation of the policy of broadening the tax base through
the introduction of measures expanding the tax base to include the informal sector (e.g.,
requiring an advance deposit of 4 percent on the personal income tax, imposition of a
synthetic tax (imp6t g6n6ral liberatoire) on informal sector businesses; (ii) imposition of the
18 percent, flat-rate value added tax, introduced in 2000 as a replacement for the tumover
tax; (iii) Intensification of efforts to combat fraud and tax evasion, particularly in the area of
import taxes; and (iv) better preparation, execution and monitoring of the budget and of
public procurement. Despite the efforts made, revenue mobilization Is still low (as Indicated
by an 8 percent ratio of local revenues to GDP in 2002). The Government wishes to achieve
a local revenue/GDP ratio of 9.0 percent in 2003. The Govemment will also continue to get
public expenditures under control and to increase non-salary operating budgets by 20
percent in the priority sectors. The Government is aiming in particular In 2003 at a current
primary surplus equivalent to 0.4 percent of GDP.
14.   As a result of discussions with the joint IMFNVordd Bank/AfDB missions, the
Govemment has set itself a certain number of sectoral objectives, and the 2003 budget has
been designed to achieve them.
2.2.  Sectoral objectives
15.   Education. In 1990, Chad adopted a ten-year education and training strategy linked
to employment (education et formation en liaison avec l'emploi, EFE). This strategy, which
Is rooted in the general policy plan, includes objectives and action plans Implemented In
1993 and strengthened at the January 2000 sectoral meetings that followed the Fourth
Geneva Round Table at which the main focus of education sector strategy for the 2000-2004
period was defined. These strategy options can be summed up as 'the three threes",
namely: (i) three objectives: wider access, greater equity, better performance; (ii) three
means: school infrastucture, programs and teaching resources and materials; (iii) three main
concems: feasiblity, sustainabilty and efficacy.
16.   Public Health. Chad's national policy on health sector development is based on the
concept of primary health care approved at the 1978 Alma-Ata Conference. The strategy
here is aimed at resolving the country's main problems, namely: Infant and child mortality
(103 and 136 per 1,000, respectively) on the one hand, and the high rate of matemal
mortality (827 per 100,000 births, according to the 1997 Demographic and Health Survey) on
the other.
17.   Indeed, the health policy adopted in 1993 and revised In 1999 has overall objectives
pertaining to the population's access to quality health services. Thus, the Government has
chosen to address twelve themes in this strategy in order to accelerate the provision of
primary health care. The main strategic themes are: (i) the development of quality basic
health care services for the populace; (ii) the urgent need for high-quality human resources;
(iii) Improved management of the health care system; and (lv) continued efforts to combat
endemic and epidemic diseases.
18.   Rural development. The sectoral meeting on rural development held in June 1999
following the 1998 Geneva Round Table geared its strategy to the following principles: (i)
rationalizing public intervention in order to respond to priority needs; (li) State
disengagement; (iii) private sector promotion; (iv) promotion of equitable access to public
services; and (v) involving operators and users In sectoral management. An updated
sectoral policy has been prepared and is a condition of negotiations for the Agricultural
Services and Producers Organizations Program (Projet des Services Agricoles et d:Appui
aux Organisations Professionnelles, PSAOP) and for the Local Development Support
5



Annex I
Page 6 of 13
Project (ProJet d'Appui au D6veloppement Local, PROADEL). This commitment is
confirmed in the Letter of Rural Development Policy.
19.   The steps taken include the identification of the Action Plan for Rural Development
(Plan d'lntervention pour le D6veloppement Rural, PIDR) for implementation of the rural
sector strategy. The PIDR is made up of two programs:
i).  PROADEL, which deals with local development and alms to foster the emergence
of local communities that assume responsibility for their own development; and
ii).  The Sector Capacity Reinforcement Program (Programme de Renforcement
Sectoriel, PROSE), aimed at boosting sectoral capacities (e.g., by supporting
professional organizations, the private sector, and services In the rural public
sector and, finally, by providing institutional support to ministerial departments).
These two programs are complementary and their implementation relies upon the Initiatives
of the populace and entrepreneurs, and upon their assumption of responsibility within the
new framework for State intervention.
20.   The rural sector has numerous problems that pose substantial obstacles: safe water
Is accessible to only 19 to 30 percent of the population and the school enrollment rate in
rural areas is 26.4 percent (compared to 80 percent in urban areas.) The health care
situation in rural areas is also precarious, with only one physician for every 40,000 people.
Transportation expenses represent 70-80 percent of marketing costs. In order to deal with
all of these rural sector problems, the Government pledges to: (i) bring about sustained
growth in agricultural production; (ii) protect the natural environment; and (iii) enhance
human capital.
21.   The actions entailed in these strategy options are: (i) increasing productivity,
managing natural resources in a sustainable manner and restoring production potential; (ii)
supporting rural organizations; (iii) making the public sector more efficient; and (iv) improving
the provision of basic services.
22.   Transportation. Following the fourth Geneva Round Table in 1998, a National
Transportation Strategy for the 1999 - 2009 period was drawn up, approved by the
Govemment and presented at a sectoral Round Table on Transportation and Housing in
November 1999. The Govemment, through the specific objectives for the transportation
sector, is committed to:
i).  making the country accessible, from the inside as well as from the outside;
ii).  reducing transportation costs, both within the country and in connection with
intemational trade;
iii). maintaining a minimum level of accessibility for all regions of the country, particularly
during the rainy season;
iv).  achieving an amount of paved, all-weather roadway sufficient to link all the country's
main cities;
v).  further sector liberalization and administrative modemization;
vi).  helping the population to develop rural transportation infrastructure and local modes
of transportation.
The Govemment Intends to evaluate these actions while fulfilling the conditions of arrival at
the completion point.
6



Annex I
Page 7 of 13
3.    Reform Program, 2002-2003, under SAC V
23.   The Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) discussed by the Boards of
Directors of IDA and the IMF on July 25, 2000 emphasized the main points of poverty
reduction, which requires an improvement In the living conditions of the Chadian population.
These objectives, which are being pursued by the Govemment, were already expressed at
the October 1998 Round Table in Geneva. The Govemment's primary goal is to achieve a
high and sustained level of growth that will create jobs and increase incomes. The PRSP,
which is in its approval phase, has identifled four prIority sectors for poverty reduction efforts,
namely: health, education, basic infrastructure and rural development, in addition to the area
of good governance.
24.   Once petroleum revenues begin to arrive in 2003, Chad will face two main
challenges, namely: the efficient and transparent management of those revenues for
purposes of poverty reduction, and the promotion of growth in non-petroleum sectors, and
especially in the rural sector, which generates the income of most of the countrys poor.
25.  In view of these two challenges, which have been confirmed through the process of
drawing up the PRSP, the Government has initiated a three-year program aimed at: (i)
strengthening good govemance and transparency; (ii) improving the management of State
resources through (a) reform of the budget process, (b) reform of public procurement, and
(c) reform of the civil service; et (iii) the promotion of sustainable growth in rural areas
through the reform of the cotton sector and the development of micro-finance. SAC V is the
follow-on program to SAC IV, which closed on August 31, 2002, and will support the second
year of program implementation.
3.1.  Strengthening of good governance and transparency
26.   Good governance and transparency are basic democratic principles. The goal in
strengthening them is to consolidate the progress Chad has made with democratic
institutions since the 1993 National Sovereign Conference (Conf6rence Nationale
Souveraine, CNS). Implementation of the recommendations emerging from the CNS has
enabled the Government to do the following:
* adopt the new constitution in 1996 by means of a referendum;
* organize the first and second presidential elections In 1996 and 1997, and then
multiparty legislative elections In 2001 and 2002;
* establish the Government Auditor's Office in 1995;
* establish the Ministry of Communications in order to guarantee freedom of the press;
* establish the Constitutional Court (Cour Constitutionnelle) in order to ensure
adherence to the Constitution;
* create the Supreme Court which Incorporates the Auditor General's Office charged
with ensuring proper management of public finances;
* create a Supreme Council of Justice;
* enact, in 1999, a law conceming oil revenues that grants civil society a major role in
overseeing and utilizing petroleum resources;
* create the Committee for the Oversight and Control of Oil Revenue (College de
Contr6le et de Surveillance des Revenus Petroliers, CCSRP) charged with enforcing
the aforementioned law;
* enact, in January 2000, the law aimed at combating corruption.
7



Annex I
Page 8 of 13
27.   Within the framework of the program, the second year of which will be supported by
SAC V In the area of strengthening good govemance, the following actions have already
occurred:
v).  adoption of the bylaws of the Committee for the Oversight and Control of Oil
Revenue (CCSRP); publication of its 2001 annual report, in addition to its first two
quarterly reports, which are available online at www.ccsrp.td; and preparation of the
first draft of a procedures manual;
ii).  adoption by the High Intemrinisterial Committee (Haut Comit6 Interminist6riel, HCI) of
the National Strategy for Good Governance and the organization of a forum involving
all segments of society;
iii).  development of an action plan for the development of a public information policy;
iv).  submission to the HCI of an action plan for reducing outside interference in customs
operations;
v).  publication (online at www.coursupreme.td) of the audit of the petroleum bonus by
the Auditor General's Office of the Ministry of Finance;
vi).  finalization of the financial and organizational audit of the customs service and
launching of the survey of users' perceptions of the customs service;
vii).  organization of a workshop to assess SAC IV implementation.
28.   For the year 2003, and by the end of June, the Government pledges:
i). to implement, in a satisfactory manner, the National Strategy for Good Governance
and to evaluate it on the basis of a summary report emerging from the preparation of,
and HCI's examination of, a draft version of the public information policy; to publish
and widely disseminate the Government's 2003 budget law; to publish, on an Intemet
website, the audit pertaining to the utilization of HIPC funds; and to publish, on an
Intemet website, the report on the execution of the 2002 budget law;
il). to finalize the survey on users' perceptions of the customs service, once it has been
validated at a workshop; to approve and publish an action plan for further improving
customs services and for reducing Illegal outside involvement in customs activities;
iii). to finalize and publish the procedures manual for the CCSRP, and recruit two
analysts to provide support to the Committee;
iv).  to have the CCSRP verify that the remainder of the petroleum bonus has been
utilized properly;
v).  to initate studies pertaining to the legal and institutional framework for
decentralization (e.g., modalities of creating rural communities, policy on training
elected officials and staff in charge of decentralization, and land tenure issues).
3.2   Reform of the budget process
29.   Through the reform of the budget process, the Government is pursuing the following
objectives: (i) improved preparation of a budget focused on poverty reduction goals,
particularly in the prlority sectors; (ii) greater efficiency and transparency in budget execution
and evaluation; and (iii) improved ex-post monitoring and oversight.
30.   The following actions have already been taken:
i).  Establishment -- in the sectors of health, education, public works and transportation,
and justice - of public expenditure review committees charged with defining,
8



Annex I
Page 9 of 13
evaluating and monitoring public expenditures in said sectors; and the conduct of
said expenditure reviews;
ii).  preparation of a medium-term expenditure framework and of program budgets for the
sectors of education and health, and introduction of those budgets into budget
documents submitted to the Parliament;
iii).  execution of the non-salary operating budget at a level of at least 95 percent based
on commitments as of end December 2001, and 50 percent on the basis of
commitments as of end June 2002, for the Ministries of Education, Public Health end
Public Works and, for the Ministry of Justice, catching up to this level by July 2002;
iv).  introduction of a monthly budget execution report that distinguishes commitments,
payment orders, settlement, and payment of expenditures and that specifically
differentiates the Ministries of Education, Public Works, Health and Justice; and
distribution of this report to the four ministries;
v).  completon of the public expenditure tracking survey; and development of a draft
action plan to improve the tracking of expenditures in health and education;
vi).  regular scheduling of collaborative meetings on budget execution in the education
and health sectors;
vil).  promulgation of the decree mandatng Implementation of the simplified expenditure
circuit, and dissemination of the new procedures manual:
viil).  training of credit administrators in the use of the simplified expenditure circuit;
ix).  information campaign aimed at suppliers, concerning the ban on interference in
expenditure procedures;
x).  choice of a software program for the automation of expenditures;
xi).  creation of a collaborative commission on Increasing bank involvement in State
expenditure operations;
xii).  transmittal to the Auditor General's Office of administrative and management
accounts for 2000 and 2001;
xiii)  submission to the Parliament of the budget reconciliation law for 2000;
xiv).  transmittal to Parliament of the opinion of the Auditor Generars Office on the 2001
budget exercise; submission to the Parliament of the budget reconciliation law for
2001;
xv).  transmittal to the World Bank of the final reports of public expenditure reviews in the
sectors of education and health;
xvi).  submission to the Parliament of the draft law mandating the creation of a mechanism
for subsidizing teachers in community schools.
31.   For the year 2003 (by the end of June), In addition to the reforms accomplished in the
context of the preceding programs (particularly the SAC IV), and which are to continue to be
implemented and continuously improved, the Govemment pledges:
i). to begin preparation of medium-term expenditure programs for the sectors of health,
education, justice, basic infrastructure (i.e., housing and public works) and rural
development; and to incorporate them into the 2004 budget law submitted to the
Parliament;
ii). to prepare, on a monthly basis, the four-phase table and distribute it to the Ministries
of Health, Education, Public Works, Urban Planning and Justice;
9



Annex I
Page 10 of 13
iii). to organize a bimonthly meeting of representatves of the priority ministries, the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (Directorate for Budget, Payment Orders, Financial
Oversight and Treasury), the Competitive Bidding Commission, the Directorate
General for Procurement, and the donors Hf necessary, on the subject of budget
execution and planned procurement In the priority sectors, followed by publication of
the minutes of that meeting;
iv). to finalize and implement an action plan to improve the tracking of expenditures in the
health and education sectors;
v). to determine the need for skilled personnel within the Budget Directorate, and to
proceed with the necessary recruitment and training, including that of macro-
economists within the Economic Forecasting Division, and that of managers in the
Investment Division;
vi). to determine the need for skilled personnel in the areas of budget preparation and
procurement within the Ministries of Health, Education, Higher Education, Urban
Planning, Public Works, Agriculture, Livestock, Justice, and Water and Environment;
and to proceed with the necessary recruitment or sub-contracting;
vii). to finalize the first phase of implementation of the integrated system;
viii). to transmit administrative and management accounts for 2002 to the Auditor
General's Office;
ix). to launch the training program for all agents responsible for budget preparation and
Implementation.
3.3.  Reform of public procurement
32.   The Govemment seeks, by means of this reform, to ensure efficient and transparent
management of public resources with a view to poverty reduction. To that end, it seeks to
strengthen the regulatory framework governing public procurement and to enhance the
transparency and ex-post oversight of public procurement contracts.
33.   Within the context of the program, the second year of which will be supported by SAC
V in the area of public procurement reform, the following measures have already been taken:
i).  publication of the decree mandating simplification of the document-approval circuit
and   harmonization  of  procurement  thresholds  (Presidential  Decree
357/PR/PM/2001);
ii).  publication of the first four issues of the Procurement Bulletin;
i).  development of a plan for staff training in the principles of public procurement;
ii).  publication of an administrative circular directing that bids be opened on the same
day (date and time) as the deadline for submission of bids;
iii).  completion of a final draft version of the new Public Procurement Code, including
independent mechanisms of legal recourse; and the organization of a workshop for
stakeholders to discuss the preliminary document;
iv).  modification of articles contained in the Public Procurement Code relative to limited
competitive bidding, with a view to eliminating the misuse of this procurement option;
v).  launching of the recruitment of independent observers for the bidding commissions in
the sectors of health and education;
10



Annex I
Page 11 of 13
vi).  completion of an audit of the five largest procurement contracts of 2001 (published
online at the Directorate General for Procurement's website, www.damo.aouv.td) and
adoption of a methodology for annual audits of procurement contracts as well as of
the procurement system;
vii).  publication, on an Intemet website, of the audit of the use of HIPC funds between
May 2001 and May 2002.
34.   By the end of June 2003, the Govemment will: (i) continue its quarterly publication of
the Procurement Bulletin and shall improve it; (ii) submit to the Parliament the New Code of
Public Procurement including independent mechanisms for legal recourse, and shall draft
the relevant enabling legislation; (iii) Implement a training program on the principles of public
procurement; (iv) (Translator's note: text missing?); and (v) initiate the audit of public
procurement which Is to be carried out In 2002 by the Auditor General's Office.
3.4.  Reform of the civil service
35.   With regard to the civil service, the Government's objectives are: the reform of the
statutory, regulatory and organizational framework of the civil service, greater transparency,
and better management of Govemment employees.
36.   Measures already taken Include the following:
i).  promulgation of the law modifying the status of the civil service and introducing
principles of competitive recruitment and merit-based promotion;
ii).  completion of the tally of civil service staff numbers and the first update of salary files
based on the results of this enumeration;
iii).  a quantitative assessment, by the Directorate for Salaries and Allowances (Direction
de la solde), of staff numbers and compensation in each ministry;
lv).  development and approval of the new wage scale.
v).  recruitment of the firm to be charged with auditing the nine pilot ministries.
37.   For the year 2003, in addition to the reforms already accomplished under the
preceding programs (particularly under SAC IV) and which are to be pursued and
continuously improved, the Govemment pledges that by the end of June it will:
i).  enact enabling legislation pertaining to the compensation, mandate and special
status of the corps of civil servants;
ii).  draw up and enact enabling legislation pertaining to the system of staff evaluation,
training and recruitment;
iii).  adopt an auditing methodology and gather the basic data and documentation
relevant to the nine pilot ministries;
lv).  finish updating the salary file on the basis of the 2000 staff tally, as well as the roster
of staff drawing a civil service salary; produce a monthly update of the roster of staff
drawing a civil service salary; and conduct quarterly reviews thereof (in December,
March and June).
3.5.  Reform of the cotton sector
38.   Cotton is of major economic and social Importance for Chad and its population. It
has a direct impact on most Inhabitants of the Sudanian zone in terms of Incomes and
11



Annex I
Page 12 of 13
services. Cotton production is carried out in the southem part of the country by about
350,000 farmers and is the primary source of monetary income. Cotton also plays a
preponderant role in Chad's economy in that it is the primary source of export revenues (until
the arrival of oil revenues), the largest borrower from the banking and financial system, the
primary provider of sub-contracting and supply contracts, etc.
39.   In reforming this sector, the Government's objectives are the following:
i).  Govemment disengagement from cotton-producing activities and liberalization of the
cotton sector through the privatization of Cotontchad's oil-mill and soap factories
(Division Huilerie et Savonnerie, DHS) and of Cotontchad itself;
ii).  integration of cotton growers into the cotton industry and recognition of them as equal
partners, through the strengthening of the institutional framework of grassroots
organizations, improvement of their knowledge of economic management and their
access to management services and agricultural inputs;
iii).  promotion of micro-financing services and access for the poor to such services
through the strengthening of the Institutional framework for Micro-Financing
Institutions (MFIs) within the Central African Economic and Monetary Community
(CEMAC).
40.    The following measures were already taken in 2001 and 2002:
i).  recruitment of a Controller General for Cotontchad and the publication in the local
press of the planned partial asset transfer from Cotontchad to the oil-mill and soap
factory division (Hullerle et Savonnerie, HS, S.A.);
ii).  attainment of legal recognition of the nine local coordinating committees (LCCs);
lii).  Issuance of the bidding Invitation seeking a reference partner for HS, S.A., and bid
analysis;
iv).  productlon of quarterly reports by the Controller General;
v).  audit of Cotonchad's financial situation and discussion thereof by the IMF and World
Bank;
vi).  development of an action plan for cost reduction in Cotonchad's operations during
the 2002/2003 season, and the evaluation and revision of the Controller General's
mandate to allow his participation in implementing this plan;
vii).  start-up of the study of the disengagement scenario;
viii).  start-up of the ex-ante analysis of the social and poverty-reducing impact of the
scenarios identified (i.e., the 'qualitative analysis');
ix).  publication of the report on funds amassed by the LCCs and start of the baseline
study of the level of information possessed by cotton growers;
x).  start-up of a program of economic information on cotton;
xi).  adoption of the regulatory framework for micro-finance in the CEMAC zone.
41.   Under SAC V, the Government pledges to carry out the following measures and
actions by the end of June 2003:
i).  complete Implementation of the action plan (i.e., actions scheduled for completion as
of end-June) for Cotontchad's 2002-2003 cropping season;
12



Annex I
Page 13 of 13
ii). finalization of the study of privatization scenarios for Cotontchad, including
accompanying measures;
iii). organization of a forum for investors, as well as a forum for cotton producers, in order
to gather their opinlons on the various privatizatlon scenarlos and on the social and
poverty-reducing impact of each scenario;
iv). adoption of an action plan for institutional strengthening of the local coordination
committees (LCCs).
4.    Program monitoring
42.   SAC V, like the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) Program, will
continue to be implemented under the supervision of the High Interministerial Commission,
with help from the Technical Committee on Structural Adjustment and the Economic Unit.
The latter will continue to handle preparation of quarterly progress reports on the Program, in
collaboration with the Poverty Reduction Strategy Steering Committee and the various
sectors concemed, and will make every effort to gather all pertinent information in the
interest of better program monitoring.
43.   All entities involved In the program will endeavor to Improve coordination among the
various programs in order to ensure their success. The Economic Unit also serves as a
clearing house from which all development partners can obtain complete details on
programs under implementation.
MINISTER OF PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
AND COOPERATION
DJIMRANGAR DADNADJI
13



REPUBLIQUE DU TCHAD                UNITE-TRAVAIL-PROGRES
MINISTERE DU PLAN, DU DEVELOPPEMENT
ETDELA COOPERATION
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DU GOUVERNEMENT                        I
v\me CREDIT D'AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL (CAS V)
(IDA)
N'Djam6na, le 24 Janvler 2003



1.    Pr6ambule
1.    Dans le cadre du Programme triennal au Utre de la Facilite pour la Rbduction de la
Pauvrete et pour la Croissance, le Tchad a rbalise des progres importants dans la
stabilisation macroeconomique et financiere avec l'appul du 4 crbdit dajustement
structurel de l'IDA, du programme d'appul a l'ajustement structurel de l'Union Europeenne,
de la subvention a l'ajustement structurel de la France et du crbdit du Fonds Africain de
Developpement (FAD) pendant la periode 2000-2002. Des reformes structurelles ont ete
mises en place qui visent A lever les obstacles entravant la croissance economique et
limitant l'accrs de la majorltA de la population aux opportunitbs economiques. Les Strategies
Nationales de la Reduction de la Pauvrete (SNRP) et de Bonne Gouvemance (SNBG),
documents cadres de r6f6rence pour l'assistance a moyen et long termes des partenaires
en developpement du Tchad ont ete elaborees et adopt6es par le gouvernement Pour
poursuivre le programme de reformes afin de mettre concomitamment en cBuvre les deux
strategies nationales, les Autouites souhaitent renforcer ce programme par la mise en place
du 5' e Credit d'Ajustement Structurel (CAS V) de l'IDA. Ce programme fonde sur une
strategle globale de reduction de la pauvret6 integrera les politiques economiques,
financieres et sociales du GouvememenL
2.    L'elaboration, la finalisation et la mise en ceuvre d'une Strategle Nationale de
Reduction de la Pauvrete qui entre en adequation avec les concluslons de la Table Ronde
de Geneve IV (octobre 1998) en general, a etb participative et laborleuse en ce ou'elle a
beneficie, a differents niveaux do reflexion, d'une large contribution de tous les partenaires
sociaux de la societb tchadienne et de ceux en developpement. Le Document Interimaire de
la Strategie de Reduction de la Pauvret6 (DSRP) elaborb par les Autoritbs tchadiennes et
discute par les partenalres en 2000 fut l'element fondamental ayant permis au pays
d'acceder au point de decislon de l'lnitiative en faveur des Pays Pauvres Tres Endettes
(IPPTE). 11 a 6galement servi de base pour coordonner les politques 6conomlques,
financiAres et sociales du Gouvemement et de bbneficier de l'assistance Interimaire des
partenaires exterieurs du Tchad.  En effet le DSRP en phase de finalisation a pour objectif
essentiel la reductlon de la pauvrete par I'acceleration de la croissance economique sur une
base durable et le renforcement de la capacit6 de l'Etat A remplir ses fonctions essentielles
en matiere de prestations de services dans los secteurs prioritaires (Education, Sante,
Affaires Sociales, les Infrastructures de base at le developpement rural) et les Institutions de
bonne gouvernance (Chambre des Comptes, Inspection Generale des Finances, Justice,
Collbge de Controle et de Surveillance des Revenus Petroliers -CCSRP- et de la Direction
Generale des Marchbs Publics). Le 56m" Credit d'Ajustement Structurel (CAS V) dont le but
principal est d'appuyer les priorites identlfiees dens le DSRP vise donc las objectifs
suivants: (i) renforcer la bonne gouvemance et la transparence en appuyant les institutions
de la Republique et la soclete civile; (ii) ameliorer la geston des ressources publiques en
vue d'une augmentation de l'impact des depenses publiques sur la reduction de la
pauvrete (amelioration du cycle budgetalre, reforme des marches publics, reforme de la
fonction publique; et (iiI) liminer les contraintes A la croissance surtout en milieu rural.
3.    Sur ceote base, le Gouvemement a dejA prepare avec le Fonds Monetaire
Intemational un programme triennal (2000-2002) appuy6 par la Facilite pour la Reduction de
la Pauvrete et la Croissance (FRPC) et soutenu per la Banque Mondiale et la Banque
Africalne de Developpement, I'Union Europ6enne, le PNUD et les outres partenaires
multilateraux et bilateraux. Le Gouvemement souhaite dores et deja beneficier de I'appul de
l'IDA et de la Banque Africaine de Developpement pour la mise en cauvre du prochain PAS.
1



2.    Strat6gle de lutte contre la pauvrete
4.    La Strategie Nationale de Reduction de la PauvretA (SNRP) en phase de finalisation
est la federation coherente et globale de l'ensemble des strategies sectorielles a mettre en
ceuvre dans les prochaines ann6es pour reduire de moitie la pauvrete au Tchad a l'horizon
2015. Elle s'inscrit dans un contexts IntematIonal relativement favorable du fait de la
disponibilit6 des pays riches et des institutions internationales a accompagner les pays
pauvres dans la lutte contre la pauvret6. Le contexte national s'annonce egalement propice
du fait des avancbes signiflcatives sur la plan d6mocratlque, des reformes structurelles
engagees et des revenus additionnels qul seront gbneres par l'exploitation des champs
petroliers de Miandum, Kome et Bolobo en 2004. La SNRP comporte cinq parties: (i)
prAsentation de I'6tat de pauvrete, (ii) les contraintes et les opportunites, (lli) les axes
strategiques et les actions prioritaires, (iv) le cadrage macroeconomique et (v) le mecanisme
de la mise en ceuvre et du monitoring.
5.    Malgre la falblesse des statistiques existantes, les analyses quantitatives de la
pauvrete faites A partir des donnees de l'Enquete sur la Consommation et le Secteur
Informel au Tchad (ECOSIT) de 1995, ont pemmis d'estimer les seults de la pauvrete
alimentaire et de la pauvrete globale, respectivement a 194F fJour/tate et 253F/jour/tate et
leur incidence A 41,6% et 43,4%. II est ressorti de cette presentation que le phenomene de
la pauvretK, bien que vecu sur l'ensemble du tenitoire, presente des disparites entre milieu
urbain et milieu rural oO 11 est plus accentuA, entre les diff6rentes reglons du pays et entre
les menages salon le niveau d'instruction du chef de menage et de son sexe. II convient de
souligner que ces donn6es seront A jour avec la deuxieme enquete (ECOSIT II) qui vient
d'etre lancee en Janvier 2003. D'autre part, les enquetes qualitatives realisees dans la phase
diagnostique du processus Indlquent qu'en milieu urbain, I'acces A 'Aducation, aux services
de sante, a l'emploi et aux activites generatrices de revenus figurent parmi les principales
dimensions d'amelioration du bien-etre. Par contre en milieu rural, l'lmportance est accordAe
par la population a l'acces aux facteurs de production et au developpement des reseaux
routiers. En effet, II ressort de la consultation participative que les facteurs d6terminants de
la pauvrete de la population sont entre autres: Ia mauvaise gouvemance, 1'enclavement de
certalnes reglons, I'lnsuffisance des Infrastructures et du personnel qualifl dans les
secteurs de sante et de l'ducation, le manque d'eau potable, le manque d'acces au credit
et les aleas climatiques qui Influent sur la producton agricole.
6.    D'une maniere gbnerale, la pauvret6 telle que decrite dans le Document Strategique
de Reduction de la Pauvret6 falt ressortir la faible croissance et sa mauvaise repartition. Les
facteurs explicatfis decoulent des differentes contralntes qui sont:
I). Ia faible productivite dans le secteur primaire en particulier celle de l'agriculture;
ii). Ia faiblesse du tissu industriel redult A six societes;
iii). Ia faiblesse quantitative et qualitaUive des ressources humaines due A
l'insuffisance d'investissement en capital humain;
iv).  Ia mauvalse gouvemance qui se manifeste dans rincapacitA de l'Etat a assurer la
s6curitA des blens et des personnes et la faiblesse de sa capacite de planification
et de gestion macroeconomlque
v).  les pesanteurs socioculturelles qul affectent les femmes qui constituent 52% de
la populatlon et qul les empechent de participer A la prise de dAcisions
Aconomiques;
2



vi). Ia falblesse des Infrastructures socioeconomlques de base ( 40000km de routes
et pistes dont ssulement 552 km revetus ) et moins de 2% de la population a
acces a l'electricit6 qui est l'une des plus chere au monde et 9.000 lignes
t6lAphoniques seulement pour une population estim6e en 2000 a 7.300.000
habitants;
vii). le systeme bancaire est reduit A cinq banques dans les cinq villes.
7.    En depit de ces contraintes, le pays dispose de potentialites enormes notamment:
39.000.000 ha de terres cultivables dont 2,2 millions sont annuellement exploites; 5,6
millions d'hectares de terres irrigables dont a peine 7.000 ha exploites; et le sous-sol
dispose de nappes phr6atiques importantes en eau, d'innombrables ressources minieres
notamment l'or, le diamant, l'uranium, le calcaire et le p6trole.
8.    De ce qui precede, rlnq axes strateglques et actions prloritaires sont retenus par to
gouvemement pour la mise en couvre de cette strategle nationale de reduction de la
pauvrete et qui sont: (i) ameliorer 1'envlronnement social, juridique, politique et
bconomique; (ii) assurer une croissance forte et soutenue; (ill) amellorer le capital humain;
(iv) ameliorer las conditions de vie des groupes vulnerables et victimes du VIH/SIDA; (v)
restaurer et sauvegarder l1'cosystbme.
2.1.  Los obJectifs macroeconomiques at flnanciers
9.    Avant la dbvaluation du FCFA, I'economle tchadlenne etait dans une situation de
recession avec un taux de croissance de -7% en 1993. En janvier 1994, grace a la
devaluation, le pays a renou6 avec les Institutions de Bretton Woods. Le programme trfennal
de FASR signe en 1995 a permis de r6aliser de 1995 a 1998 un taux moyen de croissance
reel du PIB de 4,7% sur la periode contre l'objectif de 5%. Les annees 1999 et 2000 ont
connu des faibles taux de croissance de -0,1% et -0,4% dO a la faible pluviometrie et l'effet
conjugue de la crlse asiatique, de la balsse du cours mondlal du prix de coton et
l'augmentation du prix du petrole.
10.   Pour renforcer les acquis du 1e' programme, les objectifs de croissance a moyen
terme pour la periode 2000-2002 avalent ete fix6s A au moins 5 % du PIB reel par an.
Cependant, iI s'avere qu'a la suite de plusleurs facteurs exogenes notamment lacceleration
de la construction de l'ol6oduc Tchad-Cameroun dont la fin des travaux est fix6e a fln julilet
2003 et 1'exploitation du petrole de Doba au printemps 2004, 1'conomie tchadienne a cru
plus vite que prevu (8,5 % en 2001 et 10,9% en 2002) et la crolssance du PIB real en 2003
et 2004 seralt de 13,6% en 2003 et 51,5% en 2004. L'investissement brut passeralt de
41,7% du PIB en 2001 A 52,3 % du PIB en 2002 puis b 51,9% en 2003 reffitant
l'accroissement massif de l'investissement prive dans le secteur petroller et dans los travaux
publics. Cependant, la chute tendancielle du prix du coton observ6e depuis 1999 et
accentuee pourrait avoir en 2002 des repercussions importantes sur la croissance du PIB du
secteur primaire et sur le revenu des cotonculteurs en 2003.
11.   Le niveau de l'inflation a attelnt une moyenne de 12,4% au cours de l'annee 2001 a
cause du deficit cerealier et de la famine qui a sevi au Tchad suite A la secheresse de l'annee
2000. Son niveau moyen serait revenu a 4,5% en 2002, et atteindrait 4,0 en 2003 et 2004,
confirmant ainsi la mattrise complete des effets de hausse de prix qu'avait entraines la
devaluation de 1994.
12.   Dans le souci de regler definitivement la question de la crise energetique, le
Gouvemement a sign6 en septembre 2000 avec un groupe pfive un contrat de gestion
3                                 J^      -f 



globale en ce qui conceme la Socletb Tchadlenne d'Eau et d'tlectrlcitc (STEE). De meme, Hi
vient de beneficier en octobre 2002 d'un credit de l'IDA d'un montant de 50,8 millions de
dollars US pour la construction d'une nouvelle centrale electrique a N'Djamena, la
rehabilitation des centrales dans les prncipales villes du pays, etc.
13.   Le Gouvemement envisage d'autre part la poursuite de la mise en cauvre des efforts
d'assainissement des finances publiques centres sur: (i) la poursuite de la politique
d'elargissement de l'assiette fiscale en direction du secteur informel par l'introduction de
mesures visant A fiscaliser ce secteur (acompte de 4 % sur IRPP, imp6t general liberatoire);
(ii) la mise en ceuvre de la taxe sur la valeur ajoutee (TVA) au taux unique de 18 % introduit
en 2000 en remplacement de la TCA; (ill) le renforcement des efforts de lutte contre la
fraude et l'evasion fiscale, notamment en matiere de fiscalite des importations et (iv)
I'amelloration de la pr6paration, 1'execution et le suivi du budget et de la passation des
marches publics. En depit des efforts fournis, la mobilisation des recettes reste encore faible
(ratio recettes locales sur PIB de 8 % en 2002) Le Gouvemement souhalte atteindre un ratio
recettes locales sur PIB de 9,0% en 2003. Le Gouvemement va aussi conunuer a maTtriser
les depenses publiques et augmenter les budgets de fonctionnement hors salaires de 20 %
dons les secteurs prioritaires. En particulier, le Gouvemement vise un solde primaire
courant equivalent a 0,4% du PIB en 2003.
14.   A l'lssue des discussions avec les missions tripartites du FMI, de la Banque Mondiale
et de la Banque Africalne de Developpement, le Gouvemement s'est fix6 un certain nombre
d'objectifs sectoriels et le budget de l'annee 2003 a ete congu afin de pouvoir les atteindre.
2.2.  Les objectifs sectoriels
15.   educatlon. Le Tchad a adopte en 1990 une strategle decennale d'educaffon et de
formation en liaison avec l'emploi a EFE >. Cotte strategle qui tire ses fondements dans le
plan d'orientabon a des objectifs et plans d'actions mis en cBuvre en 1993 et renforces lors
des reunions sectorielles de janvier 2000 consecutives a la table ronde de Geneve IV qui
definit les orientatlons strateglques du secteur education pour la periode 2000-2004. Ces
options strategiques obeissent a une demarche dotee d'une <(triple trilogie o (i) trois
objectifs qul sont: acces plus large; plus d'equite; plus de performance; (D1) trols moyens:
Infrastructure scolaires; programmes, moyens et materiels pedagogiques; (iii) trols
pr6occupations: faisabilite, durabilit6 et efficacit6.
16.   SantA Publiaue. La politique natlonale de dbveloppement sanitaire au Tchad est
basee sur le concept de soins de santb primaire adopte par la conference d'ALMA-ATA en
1978. Cette strategle a pour objectif de resoudre les prlncipaux problemes du pays a savoir
la mortalite infantile et Infanto juvenile (103 et 136 pour 1000) d'une part et d'autre part la
forte mortalite matemelle (827 pour 100.000 naissances, Enqudte Demographique et de
Sante, 1997).
17.   En effet la politlque de sante adoptee en 1993 et revls6e en 1999 vise des objectifs
globaux portant sur I'accbs de la populaton aux services de sante de quallte. C'est alnsi que
le gouvernement a retenu dans cette strategie douze orientations pour permettre d'accelerer
la mise en ceuvre des soins de sante primaires. Les principaux axes strategiques sont: (i) le
developpement des servIces de sante de base de qualite pour la population; (il) l'urgence
de dIsposer de ressources humalnes de qualite; (lii) I'amelioratlon de la gestion du systeme
de sante; et (iv) la poursuite de la lutte contre les maladies endemiques et epidemiques.
18.   D6velopoement rural. La reunion sectorlelle sur le d6veloppement rural tenue en juin
1999 aprbs la table Ronde de Geneve en 1998 a axe sa strategie sur les principes qui sont:
(i) rationaliser l'intervention publique pour repondre aux besoins prioritaires, (i) desengager
4
NQ - 



I'ttat, (iii) promouvoir le developpement du secteur prive, (lv) favoriser un acces equltable
aux services publics, et (v) associer les operateurs et les usagers a la gestion des secteurs.
Une mise a jour de la politique dans le secteur a ete preparee et constitue une condition
pour les n6goclations du Projet des Services Agrlcoles et d'Appul aux Organisations
Professionnelles (PSAOP) et du Projet d'Appui au Developpement Local (PROADEL). Cette
volonte se trouve conflrm6e dans la "Lettre de Politique de Dbveloppement Rural"
19.   Parmi les actions entreprises on note l'identiflcatlon d'un Plan d'intervention pour le
Developpement Rural (PIDR) pour la mise en oeuvre de la strategle du secteur rural. Le
PIDR est compose de deux programmes:
I).  Le PROADEL, axe sur le developpement local vise i'emergence et la
responsabilisation des communautes locales sur leur propre developpement.
ii).  Le Programme de Renforcement Sectorlel (PROSE), centre sur le renforcement
des capacites sectorielles (appui aux organisations professionnelles et au secteur
prive, appui aux services du secteur rural public et enfin appul institutionnel aux
departements ministAriels).
Ces deux programmes sont complementaires et s'appuiant pour leur mise en ceuvre sur
linitiative et la responsabilisation des populations et des entrepreneurs dans le cadre
reforme de l'interventlon de l'tat.
20.   De nombreux problemes existent dans le secteur rural et constituent des contraintes
non negligeables tels que 1'accbs A 1'eau potable qui ne conceme que 19 a 30% de la
population et le taux de scolarisation en milieu rural qui est de 26.4% (contre 80% en milieu
urbain ). La situation sanitaire en milieu rural est egalement precaire: 1 m6decin pour 40
000 habitants). Sur le plan de transport les coOts de transports representent 70 A 80% des
coOts de commercialisation. Pour faire face a tous ces problAmes du secteur rural, le
gouvernement s'engage a: (i) accrottre durablement la production agricole; (ii) avoir un
environnement naturel protege ; et (ii) avoir un capital humain renforce.
21.   Les actions de ce choix strategiques sont: (i) accroltre la productivite, gerer les
ressources naturelles de facon durable et restaurer le potential de production.: (ii)
soutenir les organisatlons rurales; (iii) rendre le secteur public plus efficace; et (iv)
ameliorer les prestations de service de base.
22.   Transports. Suite a la reunion de Geneve IV en 1998, une Strategie Nationale des
Transports 1999 - 2009 a bte elaboree, adoptee par le Gouvemement et prbsent6e lors
d'une Table Ronde sectorielle pour les secteurs Transport / Habitat en novembre 1999.. Le
gouvemement par les objectifs sp6cifiques du secteur transport s'engage A:
i).  desenclaver le pays a l'interieur comme a l'exterieur;
il). r6duire les coOts de transport tant A I'interieur du pays qua sur les echanges
intemationaux;
iii).  conserver une accessibitHt  minimum a l'ensemble des r6gions du pays, en
particuller en saison des pluies;
iv).  obtenir un linbaire suffisant de routes circulables toute I'annee et perTnettant de
relier les principales villes du pays;
v).  poursuivre le processus de liberalisation du secteur et de modernisation de
l'administratlon;
vi).  soutenir les populations pour le developpement des infrastructures rurales de
transport et des modes de transport locaux.
5                                       Q



Le gouvernement entend evaluer ces actions a travers la realisation des conditions d'acces
au point d'achevement.
3.    Programme de Reformes 2002-2003 dans le cadre du CAS V
23.   Le Document de la Strategie de Reduction de Pauvret6 Interimaire (DSRP-1) qui a
ete discute par les conseils d'administration de l'IDA et du FMI le 25 JulIlet 2000, a mis
l'accent sur les points saillants de la lutte contre la pauvrete qul passe par l'amelioratlon des
conditions de vie de la populaton tchadienne. Ces objectifs poursuivis par le Gouvemement
ont ete deJA exprimes lors de la Table de Ronde des bailleurs de fonds tenue a Geneve en
octobre 1998. L'objectif principal recherche par le Gouvemement est de r6allser un niveau
de croissance eleve et soutenu permettant la cr6ation d'emplois et l'augmentation des
revenus des populations. Le DSRP en phase d'adoption a identifie quatre secteurs
prioritaires pour la reductlon de la pauvret6 qul sont: la sante, I'ducation, les Infrastructures
de base et le developpement rural, alnsl quo le domaine de la bonne gouvernance.
24.   Avec l'arrlveo des revenus petrollers en 2003, le Tchad aura deux defis principaux
qul sont la gestion efficace et transparente des revenus pour la reduction de la pauvrete et la
promotion de la croissance dans les secteurs non petroliers, surtout dans le secteur rural qui
est la source de revenus pour la plupart des populations pauvres.
25.   Au vu de ces deux defis qui ont ete confirmes par le processus d'elaboration du
DSRP, le Gouvemement a lance un programme de trois ans axe sur (i) le renforcement de
la bonne gouvemance et de la transparence; (ii) I'amelloration de la gestion des ressources
de l'Etat A travers (a) la reforme du cycle budgetalre, (b) la rnforme des marches publics, et
(c) la reforme de l'Administration Publique; et (111) la promotion de la crolssance durable en
milieu rural a travers Is reforme du secteur coton et le developpement de la micro-finance.
Le CAS V fait suite au CAS IV cloture le 31 aoMt 2002 et souUendra la deuxleme annee de la
mise en couvre de ce programme.
3.1.  Renforcement de la bonne gouvernance et de /a transparence
26.   La bonne gouvemance et la transparence font partle des principes democratiques.
Leur renforcement est destine A consolider les acquis de la democratie instauree au Tchad
depuls 1993 avec la tenue de la Conference Nationale Souveraine (CNS). L'application des
recommandatons de cette CNS a pernis au Gouvemement de:
* adopter en 1996 par voie r6f6rendaire la nouvelle constitution;
* organiser respectivement en 1996 et 1997 puis en 2001 et 2002 les 1"' et 2'r
alections pr6sidentlelles et 16gislatives multipartites;
* crber en 1995 lInspectlon Generale des Finances;
* crber le Haut Conseil de la Communication afin de garantir la liberte de la presse;
* cr6er la Cour Constitutlonnelle afin de veliler au respect de la Constitution;
* creer la Cour Supreme ayant en son sein la Chambre des Comptes alin de veiller a
la bonne geston des ressources financl6res publiques;
* creer un Conseil Superleur de la Magistrature;
adopter en 1999 une lol sur les revenus petroliers qui accorde une place importante
A la Soclite Civile en matiere de suivi et de l'utilisation des ressources p6troli6res;
* crber le College de Controle et de Surveillance des Revenus Pbtroliers (CCSRP) afin
6



de veiller a l'observation de cette loi;
adopter en janvier 2000, la lo1 visant la lutte contre la corrupton.
27.   Dans le cadre du programme dont la deuxieme ann6e sera soutenue par le CAS V
en matUre de renforcement de la bonne gouvemance, les actlons suivantes ont deJa et6
realisees:
i). adoption du reglement interieur du College de Contr6le et de Surveillance des
Revenus Petrollers (CCSRP) et publicaton du rapport annuel 2001 ainsi que les
deux premiers rapports trdmestriels sur site Intemet (www.ccsrp.td ; et pr6paration
d'une premlere version du manuel de procedures;
Di).  adopton par le Haut Comite lntermlnistAriel (HCI) de la Strategie Nationale de Bonne
Gouvemance (SNBG) et organisation d'un forum de tous les composantes de la
societe;
iii). developpement d'un plan d'action pour la definition d'une politique d'information
publique
iv).  soumission au HCI du plan d'actlon pour reduire les Ingerences de tiers dans les
operations de douanes;
v).  publication de I'audit du Bonus petroller par la Chambre des Comptes au Ministere
des Finances sur Site Intemet (www.coursuoreme.td);
vi). finalisation de l'audit financier organisationnel de la douane et lancement de
l'enquete sur les perceptions des usagers des services des douanes.
vii).  organisation d'un seminalre pour evaluer la mise en couvre du CAS IV;
28.   Pour l'annee 2003 et avant la fin du mols de juln, le Gouvernement s'engage a:
i).  mettre en oeuvre de manlere satisfaisante la SNBG et l'valuer sur la base d'un
compte rendu a travers l'laboratlon et 1'examen par le HCI d'une premlere
version de la politique d'information publique, la publication et la large diffusion
de la lol de finances 2003 du Gouvemement; la publication sur site Internet de
l'audit concemant l'utilisation des fonds PPTE, et la publication sur site Internet
du rapport sur l'executlon de la loi de finances 2002;
li).  finaliser l'enquete sur les perceptions qu'ont les usagers des services douaniers
apres validation dans un seminaire, adopter et publier un plan d'action afin
d'ameliorer davantage les services douaniers et r6dulre la presence iliegale de
tiers dans la douane;
ill).  finallser et publier le manuel de procedure du CCSRP et recruter deux analystes
pour appuyer le College;
iv).  faire confirmer par le CCSRP l'utllisation satisfaisante du reliquat du bonus
petrolier;
v).  lancer les etudes relatives au cadre legal at Institutionnel de la decentralisation
(les modalltes de creatlon des communautes rurales, politique de formation des
elus et du personnel en charge de la decentralisation, et la problematique
fonciere).
3.2.  La r6forme du cycle budg6taire
29.   A travers la reforme du cycle budgetaire, le Gouvemement vise les objectifs qui
sont: (i) I'amelloration de la preparation du budget oriente vers les objectifs de rbduction de
la pauvrete notamment dans les secteurs prioritaires, (ii) I'amelioration de l'efficacit6 et de la
7



transparence de l'execution budgbtaire et de son evaluation, et (iii) I'ameiioration du suivi et
du contr6le ex-post.
30.   Les actions suivantes ont dbja etb reallsbes:
i).  constitution des comites de revues des dbpenses publiques dans les secteurs de
la Sante, de l'Education, des Travaux Publics et Transports, de la Justice
charges de la definition, de 1'evaluation et du sulvi des dbpenses publiques
afferentes aux dits secteurs; et realisation des revues;
ii).  preparation d'un cadre de depenses a moyen terme et de budgets de
programmes dans les secteurs de I 'education et de la sante et introduction dans
les documents budg6taires soumis au Parlement;
iii).  budget de fonctionnement hors salaire execute a au moins 95% sur base
engagement a fin decembre 2001 et a 50% sur base engagement a fin Juin 2002
pour les Ministeres Education Nationale, Sante Publique et Travaux Publics, et
rattrapage pour la Justice en juillet 2002;
iv).  introduction d'un rapport mensuel sur 1'exbcution du budget distinguant
1'engagement, l'ordonnancement, la liquidation et le paiement des dbpenses et
distinguant sp6cifiquement les ministeres de l'Education, des Travaux publics, de
la Sante et de la Justice, avec distribution de ce rapport aux quatre minist6res;
v).  achevement de 1'enquete de suivi des dbpenses publiques jusqu'a destination ; et
elaboration d'un projet de plan d'action pour ameliorer I'arrivee des dbpenses a
leur destination finale dans les domaines de la sante et de 1'education;
vi).  organisation reguliere des reunions de concertation sur l'execution des budgets
de l'education et de la sante;
vii).  promulgation de l'arrete de la mise en ceuvre du circuit simplifle et diffusion du
nouveau manuel de procedures;
viii).  formation des administrateurs de credit pour le circuit simplfei de la d6pense;
ix).  campagne d'information aux foumisseurs sur l'interdiction d'immixtion dans la
procbdure de dbpense;
x).  choix d'un logiciel pour l'automatisatlon de la depense;
xl).  creation d'une Commission de concertation de bancarisation des opbrations de
depenses de l'Etat;
xii).  transmission des comptes administratifs et de gestUon 2000 et 2001 a la
chambre des comptes;
xlii).  soumisslon de la Loi de r6glement 2000 au Padlement;
xiv).  transmission de I'avis de la chambre des comptes sur 1Iexercice budgetaire 2001
au pariement; soumission de la Lol de reglement 2001 au Parlement;
xv).  transmission a la Banque Mondiale des rapports finaux pour la revue des
depenses publiques dans le secteur de 'Aducation et de la sante;
xvi).  soumission au Pariement du projet de loi creant un mecanisme de subvenUons
pour los maltres communautaires.
31.   Pour I'ann6e 2003 (fin juin), en plus des reformes accomplies dans le cadre des
precedents programmes (notamment le CAS IV) et qui doivent se poursuivre en
s'am6liorant, le Gouvernement s'engage a:
i).  lancer la preparatUon des programmes de depenses a moyen termme dans les
secteurs de la sante, de l'education, de la justice, des infrastructures de base
8



(habitat et travaux pubilcs) et du developpement rural et les introduire dans la lo!
de finance 2004 soumise au Parlement;
ii).  preparer mensuellement la tableau de 4 phases et le distribuer aux Ministeres de
la sante, de I'ducation, des travaux publics, de l'urbanisme et de la justice;
i).  organiser tous les deux mols une reunlon regroupant les Ministeres prioritaires, le
Ministbre de l'economie et des Finances (Direction du Budget, de
l'Ordonnancement, du Contr6le Financier et du Tresor), la Commission d'Appel A
la Concurrence, la Direction G6ndrale des Marches Publics, et les bailleurs si
n6cessalre. au sujet de 1'execution du budget et des plans de passation des
marches dans les secteurs prioritaires, avec publication du compte-rendu de la
reunion;
Iv).  finaliser et mettre en ceuvre un plan d'action pour amellorer I'arrivee des
depenses a destination dans les secteurs de la santb et de l'education;
v).  Identifier les besoins en personnel qualifie 3 la direction du budget et proceder
aux recrutements et aux formations necessaires, y compris des macro-
Aconomistes 3 la sous-direction de la pr6vision et des cadres a la sous-direction
des Investissements;
vi).  Identification des besoins en termes de personnel qualifle en matiere de
preparation du budget et de passation des marches dans les ministeres de la
sante, de I'education, de 1'enseignement sup6rieur, de l'urbanisme. des travaux
publics, de I'agriculture, de 6levage, de la justice et de l'eau et de
l'environnement, et recrutement ou sous-traltance si necessaire;
vii). flnaliser la premiere phase de la mise en oeuvre du systeme integre;
viii). Transmission des comptes administratif et de gestion 2002 a la Chambre des
Comptes;
ix).  Lancement effectif du programme de formation pour tous les agents charges de
la preparatlon et de 1'execution du budget.
3.3.  Rdforme des marchds publics
32.   A travers cette r6forme le Gouvemement cherche a assurer une gestlon efficace et
transparente des ressources publiques en vue de la reduction de la pauvrete. Pour cela, iI
cherche a renforcer le cadre reglementaire des march6s publics et la transparence at le
controle ex-post des marches publics.
33.   Dans le cadre du programme dont la deuxieme annee sera soutenue par le CAS V
en matiere de reforme des march6s publics, lea actions suivantes ont dejb WtA realisees:
1).  publication du decret portant simplification du circuIt des visas et de
l'harmonisatlon des seulls (Decret Presidentiel 357/PR/PM/2001);
ii).  publicatlon des quatre premiers numeros du Bulletin des Marches;
i).  definition du plan de formation en matiere des principes pour les marches
publics;
ii).  publication d'une circulalre imposant l'ouverture des plis le jour mAme (date et
heure) de l'cheance de remise des dossiers d'appel d'offres;
iii).  finalisation de la premlere version du nouveau Code des Marches publIcs y
compris des mecanismes indApendants de recours; et organisation d'un
seminaire pour las parties prenantes afln de discuter du document preliminaire;
9



iv).  modification des articles du code des marches publics se r6ferant A la procedure
de l'appel d'offre restreint dans l'optique d'en eliminer son abus;
v).  lancement du recrutement d'observateurs independants pour les commissions
dans les secteurs de la sante et de l'Aducation;
vi).  realisation d'un audit des cinq plus gros march6s en 2001 (publi6 sur le site
Intemet de la DGMP (www.damo.aouv.td) et adoptlon d'une methodologie pour
l'audit annuel des contrats de passation des march6s ainsi que du systeme de
passation des marches;
vii). publication sur site Intemet de I'audit sur l'utilisation des fonds PPTE entre mai
2001 et mai 2002.
34.   D'ici la fin du mois juin 2003, le Gouvernement (I) continuera la publication
trimestrielle du Bulletin des marches publics et l'am6liorera; (ii) soumettra au Parlement le
nouveau Code de march6s publics y comprls des mecanismes independants de recours et
preparera les projets de decrets d'application; (iii) mettra en ceuvre un plan de formation sur
les principes de marches publics: (iv), et (v) lancera l'audit des marches publics qui sera
realis6 en 2002 par la Chambre des Comptes.
3.4.  La r6fonne de la fonctfon publique
35.   Dans le cadre de la Fonction Publique, les objectifs poursuivis par le Gouvemement
sont la reforne du cadre statutaire, reglementaire et organisationnel de la fonction publique
et le renforcement de la transparence et de la gestion du personnel de l'Stat.
36.   Les mesures deja prises incluent:
i).  Ia promulgation de la Lol portant nouveau statut de la fonction publique qui
introduit les principes de recrutement par concours et I'avancement sur merite;
ii).  I'achevement du recensement des fonctionnaires et la premiere mise a jour du
fichier de la solde sur la base des resultats de ce recensement
iii). Productlon par la direction de la solde d'une evaluation quantitative des effectifs
et traitement par Mlnistere
iv).  I'laboration et adoptlon de la nouveile grille salariale.
v).  Recrutement du cabinet charge de l'audit de neuf ministeres pilotes;
37.   Pour I'annee 2003 et a la fin du mois juln, en plus des reformes d6ja accomplies
dans le cadre des precedents programmes (notamment dans le CAS IV) et qui doivent se
poursuivre en s'am6liorant, le Gouvemement s'engage a:
i).  publier les decrets d'application sur les remunerations, missions, et statuts
particuliers de corps:
II).  preparer et publier les decrets d'appllcatIon pour la systeme d'apprecdation du
personnel, la formation et le recrutement;
iii).  adopter une methodologle d'audit et rassembler los donnees de base et la
documentation pour 9 ministeres pilotes;
iv).  finaliser la mise a jour du fichier de la solde sur la base du recensement 2000 et
de la liste des personnels emargeant & Ia asolde; mettre A jour mensuellement la
liste des personnels emargeant A la solde et proceder a une revue trimestrielle
(decembre, mars, juin) de celle-ci.
10



3.5.  Rdformne du Secteur Coton
38.   Le coton revet un poids economique et social majeur pour le Tchad et sa population.
II a un impact direct sur la majorite de la population de la zone soudanlenne en termes de
revenus et de services. La production cotonnibre est realisee dans la partle sud du pays par
environ 350.000 producteurs et elle constitue la premiere source de revenus monetaires. Le
coton joue en outre un role prepondbrant dans l'economie tchadienne en etant la premiere
source de recettes a l'exportation (usqu'b i'arrivee des recetets petrolieres), le premier
emprunteur du systeme bancalre et financier, le premier pourvoyeur de marche de sous-
traitance et de fourniture, etc.
39.   Dans le cadre de cefte reforme, les objectifs du gouvemement sont:
i).  Ie desengagement de l'Etat des activites de production cotonniere et la
llberalisatlon du secteur coton A travers la privatisatlon de I'Hullerie et de la
Savonnerie (DHS) et de la Cotontchad;
ii).  I'int6gratlon et la consid6ration des cotonculteurs comme partenaires a poids egal
dans l'Industrie du coton a travers lo renforcement du cadre institutionnel des
organisatlons de base, I'amelloration de leur connaissance dans la gestion
economique et leur acces aux services de gestion des intrants agricoles;
lil).  Ia promotion et l'acces des pauvres aux services de micro-finance A travers le
renforcement du cadre institutionnel des Institutions de Micro-Finance (IMF) au
niveau de la CEMAC.
40.   Les mesures deja realisees en 2001 et 2002 sont:
i).  Ie recrutement d'un Controleur General de la Cotontchad et la publication dans
la presse locale du projet d'apport partlel d'actifs de la Cotontchad A I'Hullerie et
Savonnerie (HS SA);
li).  l'obtention de la reconnaissance juridique des 9 Comit6s de Coordination Locaux
(CCL);
iii).  Ie lancement de I'appel d'offres pour la recherche de partenaire de reference
pour I'HS S.A et le depouillement des offres;
iv). Ia production de rapports trimestrlels par le controleur general;
v).  I'audit sur la situation de tresorerle de la Cotontchad et discussion sur cette
situation par le FMI et la Banque Mondlale:
vi).  La definition d'un plan d'action en vue de la mise en c^uvre de mesures de
reduction des coOts pour les operations de Ia Cotontchad pendant la campagne
2002/2003 et l'valuation et la revision du mandat du Controleur g6n6ral pour
accompagner la mise en ceuvre de ce plan;
vil).  Ie dAmarrage de l'tude sur le scAnarlo de d6sengagement;
viii). le lancement de l'analyse ex ante de l'impact social et sur la pauvret6 et des
scenarlos Identifies (r6allsation de I 'analyse qualitative);
ix).  Ia publication du rapport sur les fonds epargnes par les CCL et le lancement de
l'enquete de reference sur le niveau de l'informatlon de cotonculteurs;
x).  le demarrage d'un programme d'informnatlons economiques sur le coton;
xi).  adoption du cadre reglementaire de la Micro-finance en zone CEMAC.



41.   Le Gouvemement s'engage dans le cadre du CAS V a r6aliser, d'ici fin juin 2003, les
mesures et actions suivantes:
i).  mise en oeuvre complete du plan d'actions (actons a fin juln) de la Cotontchad
pour la campagne 2002-2003
ii). finalisatlon de l'6tude des sc6narios de privatisatlon de ia Cotontchad, y comprs
des mesures d'accompagnement;
iii).  organisatUon d'un forum des invesUsseurs, et un forum des producteurs de coton
en vue de recueillir leurs points de vue sur les sc6narios altematHfs de
privatisation, et sur l'impact social et sur la pauvrete de chaque sc6nario;
iv). adoption d'un plan d'action pour le renforcement insUitutionnel des Comit6s de
Coordination Locaux (CCL).
4.       SuivI du programme
42.   Le CAS V tout comme le Programme de Facilit6 pour la R6ductlon de la Pauvret6 et
pour la Croissance (FRPC) continuera d'etre mis en ceuvre sous la supervision du Haut
Comite lnterministeriel assist6 par le Comite Technique a i'Ajustement Structurel et la
Cellule iconomlque. Cette demrlre continuera a assurer la preparation de rapports
trimestriels d'avancement du Programme en collaboratlon avec le Comit6 de Pilotage pour
la SNRP et les diff6rents secteurs concemes ot s'efforcera de rassembler touts information
pertinente pour un meilleur suivi du programme.
43.   Toutes les structures concem6es par le programme s'actveront pour assurer une
meilleure coordination entre les diff6rents programmes afin de garantir leurs succes. La
Cellule tconomique est 6galement le lieu privil6gl6 oi tous los partenaires en
developpement peuvent obtenir toutes les InformaUons sur les programmes engag6s.
MIISTRE DU PLAN, DU DEVELOPPEMENT
ET DE LA COOPERATION






SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                            Anncx 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                    Page 1 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Governance
Strategic PRSP axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Strengthen the rule of law, transparency and accountability
Objective: Adopt and implement a national governance strategy
Specific objective    Before end December 2002             Before end June 2003          Before end June 2004      Monitorable
(primary                                                                                                         output
responsible)                                                                                                 ._
Adopt a National   Adopt the National Governance    Maintain satisfactory imnplementation of  Maintain satisfactory  NGS evaluated
Governance Strategy  Strategy, organize a forum, and  NGS and evaluate it through a progress  implementation of NGS,  and updated
(NGS) and update it  pubhsh the NGS; Implement NGS in a  report including notably (i) the  evaluate implementation of  annually
annually           satisfactory manner, mcluding (i)  preparation and review by the Government the NGS and update it
(government-civil  publication of critical reports by the  (HCI) of the first draft of a policy for the
society committee)  Auditor General, notably the audit  public disclosure of information; (ii) the
of the signing bonus; (ii)       publication and wide availability of the
development of an action plan for  Government's 2003 Budget Law; (iii) the
the definition of a public disclosure  publication on its website of the audit of
information                      the use ofHlIPCfunds; and (iv)
publication on its website of the report on
the execution of the 2002 Budget Law (*)
Update NGS
Satisfactory progress in the organization
of the Justice general assembly ("Etats
Gen&raux de la Justice')



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                               Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                         Page 2 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lendmg
Governance
Strategic PRSP axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Strengthen the rule of law, transparency and accountability
Objective: Adopt and implement a national governance strategy
Specific objective     Before end December 2002        Before end June 2003          Before end June 2004      Monitorable output
(primary responsible)
Adopt and implement an     Complete the               Comnplete survey on the users'  Evaluate the implemcntation  Action plans to
action plan to diminish the  organizational and financial  perception of customs services after  of the action plans to improve  improve customs
illegal interference of third  audit of customs;      validation in a seminar (*)     customs services and to     services and diminish
parties in customs operations.  Launch a survey on users'                             dimmnish bogobogo and update  bogobogo evaluated
(bogobogo) and improve     perception of customs      Adopt and publsh the action plan  them; define and implement  and updated annually
customs services (Ministry of  services               to further improve customs      measures to further improve
Finance, CNR)                                         services and dimninish illegal  customs services following the
interference of third parties in  users' perception survey
customs operations (*)          results
Launch the implementation of the
action plan
Objective: Set up the legal and Institutional framework for decentralization
Design the legal and                                  Launch the studies relating to the  Completion of the studies and  Legal and institutional
institutional framework for                           legal and institutional framework of progress in the implementation  framework defined on
decentralization and define                           decentralization:               of the legal and institutional  the basis of the studies
the legal texts (Ministry                              -study on the modalities for    framework for              and implemented
Delegate of Decentralization)                         creating rural communities      decentralization
- study on the training policy for
elected representatLves and for staff
in charge of the decentralization
process
- Study on land ownership issues
(*)



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                            Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                    Page 3 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(t) Tngger for the preparation of subscquent program-lending
Governance
Strategic PRSP axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Strengthen the rule of law, transparency and accountability
Objective: Provide adequate oversight and control of petroleum revenues
Specific objective    Before end December 2002     Before end June 2003      Before end June 2004       Monitorable output
(pnmary responsible)
Make the Petroleum Revenue  Adopt CCSRP rules of    Fmalization and publication  Satisfactory implementation  CCSRP fully operational
Oversight and Control Board  procedures ("reglement  of the procedural manual of  of the procedural manual
(CCSRP) fully operational  interieur), draft a procedural  CCSRP and recruitment of
(CCSRP, government)       manual                    two analysts (*)
Publish the 2001 annual   Publish the CCSRP annual  Publish the CCSRP annual  Publication of the CCSRP
report of CCSRP and the   and quarterly reports and post and quarterly reports and post annual and quarterly reports
first two quarterly reports  them on the CCSRP website  them on the CCSRP website  and reports posted on the
and post them on the                                                          CCSRP website
CCSRP website             Confirmation by the CCSRP
of the satisfactory use of the
remainder of the petroleum
Agreement Signing Bonus(*)
Evaluate implementation of                                                    Independent evaluation and  Evaluation report and action
the governance measures                                                       adoption of action plan for  plan.
._______________________   adjustm ent



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                              Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                       Page 4 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Reform of the budget cycle
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Improve budget prepar tion such that the budget serve the objective of poverty reduction
Specific objective        Before end December 2002     Before end June 2003      Before cnd June 2004       Monitorable output
(primary responsible)
Improve the presentation of the  Pursue the refinement of   Pursue the refinement of  Pursue the refinement of   Budget classification
budget                          budget classification for the  budget classification for the  budget classification for the  allows for monitoring
(Ministry of Finance, Sector    2003 budget (by nature,     2003 budget (by nature,  2004 budget (by nature,     poverty reduction
Ministries, PRSP Steering       function and geographic area)  function and geographic  function and geographic area)  expenditures
Committee)                      so as to clearly distinguish  area) so as to clearly  so as to clearly distinguish
poverty reduction          distinguish poverty       poverty reduction
expenditures in the education,  reduction expenditures in  expenditures in the education,
health and basic infrastructure  the education, health, basic  health, basic infrastructure,
sectors                    infrastructure and justice  justice and rural development
sectors                  sectors
Introduce a distinction    Refine and generalize                                Current and investment
between recurrent and capital  distinction between                              budgets consolidated per
expenditures in the investment  recurrent and capital                           mmistry
budget of ministries       expenditures in the
investment budgets
Strengthen the programming of   Create macro-economic       Refinement of medium-term  Refinement of medium-term  Budget Law based on
expenditures in priority sectors in  framework committee;   macroeconomic framework  macroeconomic framework     inproved medium-term
view of achieving quantitative  develop mnedium-term        and sectoral ceilings in  and sectoral ceilings in   macroeconomic and
poverty reduction objectives and  macroeconomic framework,  preparation of 2004 Budget  preparation of 2005 Budget  expenditure framework
consistent with the macroeconomic  preliminary 2003 sectoral  Law                    Law
framework                       expenditure ceilings and
(Ministry of Finance, Sector    indicative 2003-2005
Ministries, PRSP Steering       expenditure ceilings in the
Committee)                      health and education sectors in
preparation of the 2003
Budget Law                                                                          .-



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                               Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                         Page 5 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Reform of the budget cycle
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource mnanagement with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Improve b dget preparation such that the budget serve the objective of poverty reduction
Specific objective   Before end December 2002          Before end June 2003               Before end June 2004       Monitorable output
Issue improved Budget       Issue improved Budget Circular on the  Issue improved Budget Circular on
Circular on the basis of    basis of medium-term macroeconomic  the basis of medium-term
medium-term macroeconomic  framework and broad sector allocations  macroeconomic framework and
framework                                                        broad sector allocations
Estimate future costs for 2003-  Estimate future costs for 2004-2006 of  Esimate future costs for 2005-
2005 of Title V (domestic and  Title V (domestic and foreign-financed  2007 of Title V (domestic foreign-  Mediurn-term
foreign-financed investment  investment budget) 2004 projects in the  financed investment budget) 2005  expenditure programs
budget) 2003 projects in the  health, education, justice and basic  projects in the health, education,  presented annually in
health and education sectors;  infrastructure sectors; include them in  justice, basic fifrastructure and  the Budget Law for
include them in budget      budget requests                     rumal development sectors; include  all priority sectors
requests                                                        them in budget requests         (health, education,
Elaborate medium-term expenditure                                    basic infrastructure,
programs in the health and education                                 rural development
sectors to be introduced in the 2003                                 and justice)
Budget Documents submitted to
Parliament (*)
Launch the preparation of rmedium-term  Refine and revise medium-term
expenditure programs m the health,   expenditure programs in the health,
education, justice, basic infrastructure  education, justice, basic
(housing and public works) and rural  infrastructure and rural
development sectors (*) and introduce  development sectors to be
them in the 2004 Budget Law submitted  introduced in the 2005 Budget Law
____________________   to Parliament                  submnitted to Parliament
Improve predictability  Prepare an expenditure plan  Include in Budget Documents       Include m Budget Documents     Better performance
of resources and      by region for deconcentrated  expenditure plans by region for    expenditure plans by region for  of deconcentrated
expenditures, and thus  services in the health sector  deconcentrated services in the health,  deconcentrated services in the  services and
performance, of       (including staff costs)    education, justice and basic mfrastructure  health, education, justice, basic  monitoring of
deconcentrated                                   sectors (including staff costs)      infrastructure and rural        expenditures at the
services                                                                               development sectors (including  regional level
staff costs)



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                                Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                           Page 6 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Reform of the budget cycle
PRSPvAxis: Promotegood goverpance
Overall objectOve: Ensure efracient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reducn,on
-Objective: Improve budget prepara fn such that the budget serve the objecoive of poverth reduction
Spec0fic objective         Before end December 2002     Before end June 2003       Before end June 2004        Monitorable output
(primary responsible)
Improve tranparency and          Finalize, for submrission to emrove Budget Documents u l  rove Budget Docuents     Budget Documents are
Parliament's ability to review the  parliament, the 2003 Budget  whdch will be submitted to  which will be submitted to  correhensive and
fiscal policy through an         Law and a Budget Framework  ParliaOuent in October for  Parliament in October for the  broadly disseminated
irnprovement in Budget Documents  Document including:        the vote of the 2004 Budget  vote of the 2005 Budget Law:
The provisional Table of  Law:                        Medium-termm expenditure
Government Financial    -   Medium-term               plans 2005-2007 cover
Operations for 2003-2005    expenditure plans 2004-   the health, education,
-         An aggregated MTEF    2006 cover thc healtn ,   justice, basic
2003-2005                   education, justice, basic  infrastructure and rural
-   Mediumn-term expenchture    infrastructure and rural  developrnient sectors
plans 2003-2005 in the       development sectors      Outcomes of the
healto and education     nrOutcomes of the            monitoring of
sectoTs                     monitoring of             performance indicators in
-   Estemites of annual costs   performance indicators    the health, education,
for 2003-2005 of            in the health and         Justtyp,eice
investment projects in      education scctor are      rnfrastructure and rural
2003                        displayed                 developrnent sectors are
displayed
Introduce in Budget         Introduce in Budget       Introduce in Budgct
Documents tables describing  Docurnents tables        Docurnents tables describing
expenditures by function and  describing expenditures by  expenditures by function and
economic type               function and economic type  economiic type
Widely disseminate Budget   Widely disseminate Budget  Widely disseminate Budget
Documents                   Documents                 Documents



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                              Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                       Page 7 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lendmg
Reform of the budget cycle
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Improve the efficiency and transparency of budget execution
Specific objective    Before end Decembre 2002         Before end June 2003            Before end June 2004         Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)
Improve the efficiency of  Monthly preparation of a  Monthly preparation of the T4P  Monthly preparation of a table   Monthly tables are
budget execution for the  table (T4P) presenting    table; Distribution to the Ministrnes  presenting budget execution at the  produced and
priority sectors         budget execution at the    of Health, Education, Public Works,  stages of commitment, order to pay  distributed
(Ministry of Finance,    stages of commitment, order  Urbanism and Justice(*)        and payment; Distribution to the
Sector Ministries, PRSP  to pay and payment;                                         Ministries of Ministries of Health,
Steering Committee)      Distribution to the        Review of budget execution in    Education, Public Works, Urbanism,
Ministries of Health,      priority ministries every two months,  Justice and Rural Development;
Education, Public Works    with the Ministry of Finance (Budget  Review every two months of budget
and Justice                Directorate, Order to Pay Directorate, execution in priority ministries and
Financial Control Directorate,   publication of the minutes of the
Treasury), the Procurement       meeting.
Directorate, the Procurement
Commission, and donors if
necessary, and publication of the
minutes of the meeting (*)
Preparation of a monthly table   Continuation of actions to improve
presenting all expenditures by budget the financial momtoring of budget
hnes at all stages; distribution to  execution
priority Ministries
Production of public procurcment  Production of public procurement
plans in priority ministries and  plans in priority ministries and
review every two months at the   review every two months at the
meetings on budget execution (*)  meetings on budget execution



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                              Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                       Page 8 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Reform of the budget cycle
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Improve the efficiency and transparency of budget execution
Specific objective    Before end December 2002         Before end June 2003             Before end June 2004        Momtorable output
(Primary responsible) _
At least 95 percent at end  At least 95 percent at end FY2002 on  100 percent at end FY2002 on a  Non-salary operational
FY 2001 of the non-salary  a payment basis and 50 percent at  payment basis and 50 percent at end  budget executed at 95
operational budget executed  end June 2003 on a commitment  June 2003 on a comrmitment basis of  percent and then at 100
on a commitment basis for  basis of the non-salary operational  the non-salary operational budget  percent at the end of
the Ministries of Education,  budget executed for the Ministries of  executed for the Ministries of  each fiscal year on a
Health and Public Works    Education, Health, Public Works,  Education, Health, Pubhe Works,  payment basis
Urbanism, and Justice            Urbanism, Justice, Livestock,
Agriculture and Water/Environment
At least 95 percent at end June  Tenders for bids in priority sectors  Tenders for bids in priority sectors
2002 of the non-salary     ready before end 2002 and submitted  ready before end 2003 and submitted
operational budget executed  early 2003 for approval to     early 2004 for approval to
on a commitment basis for the  Procurement Directorate      Procurement Directorate
Ministries of Education,
Health and Public Works
Give priority to paymcnts in  Give priority to payments in priority  Give priority to payments in priority
priority sectors           sectors                          sectors
Create a mechanism to    Submission to Parliament of  Effective implementation of the                                 Agency fully
subsidy community        the draft law establishing a  mechanism to subsidize community                               operational, subsidies
teachers in the education  mechanism ("Agency") for  teachers, as witnessed by the creation                           disbursed
sector                   paying a subsidy to        of the Board and the management
community teachers         team for the Agency and by the
disbursement of subsidies to
community teachers



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                               Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                         Page 9 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Reform of the budget cycle
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Improve the eff ciency and transparency of bud et execution
Specific objective     Before end December 2002         Before end June 2003             Before end June 2004         Monitorable output
(Primary rcsponsible)
Simplify and computerize  Make fully operational the  Launch and complete the first phase  Launch and complete the second  Simnplified and
the expenditure circuit  computerized expenditure    of the implementation of the     phase of the IFMIS (before end-   computerized
(Ministry of Finance)    circuit for the stages of   Integrated Financial Management  December 2003);                   expenditure circuit fully
commitment, hquidation,     Information System (*):          - Fully adapt the Burkina software to  operational
order to pay-, incorporate the  -Installation of the computerized  Chadian specifications     Integrated system fully
payment stage; and put the  platform for development of the  - Testing                         operational
system in network           software and of a training room with  - Training of users
about fifteen computers.
- definition of technical requirements
and mam changes needed to adapt
the Burkina software to the Chadian
regulations
- Launching of the preparation of the
2004 budget for a few ministrnes
with the software and training of staff
in the ministries involved and in the
Budget Directorate
Train staff at the Mmistry of  Launch traming of all staff at the  Complete the training of all users at
Finance and the Treasury to  Ministry of Finance and the Treasury  the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury
the use of the conputerized  to the first phase of the use of the  and in priority ministries to the use of
expenditure circuit         integrated system (*)            the integrated system (before end-
December 2003)
Develop a new regulatory legislation  Adopt new regulatory legislation
concerning "Regime financier de  concerning "Regime financier de
I'Etat"                          I'Etat"



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                             Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                     Page 10 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent programn-lending
Reform of the budget cycle
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Improve the efficiency and transparency of budget execution
Specific objective        Before end December 2002     Before end June 2003         Before end June 2004      Monitorable output
(Prianry responsible)
Contmue to strengthen the capacity of                      Effective launching of the   Continue to strengthen capacity  Adequate number of
staff in charge of budget preparation,                    trairing program for all agents in  m the area of budget  qualified staff in charge
execution (including public                                charge of budget preparation and  management              of budget preparation,
procurement) and monitoring in the                         execution (*)                                             execution and
Ministry of Finance, line Ministries,                                                                                monitoring in the
Procurement Directorate (DGMP) and                         Hiring of required number of                              ministries, DGMP and
Auditor General's Office.                                  qualified staff in the budget                             Auditor General's
directorate, including                                    Office.
rnacroeconormsts for the
economic forecasting sub-
directorate and qualified
executives for the investment
sub-directorate (*)
Identification of the needs in
terns of qualified staff in the
area of budget preparation and
procurement in the priority
Ministries, and hiring of required
staff or sub-contracting of some
activities if necesry ()
Improve tansparency of public     Finalize report and action  Adopt and miplement action  Inplement action plan to  Increased part of
expenditure operations            plan to increase payment of  plan to increase payment of  increase payrncnt of     expenditures paid by
(Ministry of Finance, Commercial  expenditures by bank wire  expenditures by bank wire  expenditures by bank wire    bank wire
banks and Micro-finance institutions)                      Strengthen accounting        Strengthen accounting        Improved accounting
procedures in the Health and  procedures in the Health and  and monitoring of
Education Ministries         Education Ministries         expenditures
Review existing public
accounting procedures        ___



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                             Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a pnor action for SAC V                                                                      Page 11 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Reform of the budget cycle
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Improve ex-post monitoring, audit and control in order to evaluate the correct execution of the budget and to measure the impact of public
expenditures on poverty reduction
Specific objective      Before end December 2002   Before end June 2003     Before end June 2004           Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)
Reintroduce the adoption of the  Submission to Parliament of  Submission to Parliament of  Submission to Parliament of  Annual adoption of the Budget
Budget Settlement Law           the Budget Settlement Law  the Budget Settlement Law  the Budget Settlement Law  Settlement Law for year n before
(Ministry of Finance, Auditor   2000 before the adoption of  2001 before the adoption of  2002 before the adoption of  the vote on the Budget Law for
General's Office, Parliament)  the Budget Law for 2002    the Budget Law for 2003 (*) the Budget Law for 2004  year n+2
Transmnission of "comptes  Transmission of "comptes  Transmission of "comptes
adrninistratifs et de gestion"  administratifs et de gestion"  admimstratifs et de gestion"
for the 2001 budget to the  for the 2002 budget to the  for the 2003 budget to the
Auditor General's Office   Auditor General's Office  Auditor General's Office
Reinforce the role of the Auditor  Prepare an action plan to  Implementation of the plan  Audit of the perfornance of  Improved quality and timeliness
General's Office                strengthen the Auditor     and audit of the         the management control   of the Auditor General's Office'
General's Office           performance of the       systems of the Office     reports
management control
systems of the Office
Strengthen the role of the      Publish a report on        Publish a report on      Publish a report on      Annual publication of a report
"Inspection Generale des Finances"  irregularities in the execution  irregularities in the  irregularities in the  on irregularities in budget
(IGF) (General Finance Inspection  of the 2001 budget      execution of the 2002    execution of the 2003     execution.
Service)                                                   budget                   budget
Enhance the accountability of                              Adopt a set of           Implementation of the    Administrative sanctions for
personnel involved in budget                               administrative sanctions for  administrative sanctions for  irregularities in budget execution
execution                                                  irregularities in budget  irregularities in budget  fully operational
execution                execution



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                               Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                        Page 12 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Reform of the budget cycle
PRSP Axis: Promotegood governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Improve evaluation, monitoring and control to establish the correct execution of the budget and measure the impact of expenditures on
poverty reduction
Specific objective       Before end December 2002  Before end June 2003      Before end June 2004         Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)
Evaluate the impact of government  Creation of Committees for  Creation of Committees for  Completion of public  Annual publication of a
expenditure programs on poverty  the definition, evaluation  the definition, evaluation  expenditure reviews in the  public expenditure review,
reduction                        and monitoring of public  and monitoring of public  health, education, justice,  assessing the poverty
(Ministry of Finance, line       expenditures for justice and  expenditures for justice,  basic infrastructure and  impact of public
Ministries, PRSP Steering        basic infrastructure      basic infrastructure and  rural development sectors  expenditures in priority
Committee)                                                 rural development                                   sectors and proposing
recommnendations for
Launching of the public   Launching of the          Launching of preparation of  further improvement of
expenditure reviews (for  preparation of public    the public expenditure     budgetary allocations and
year 2001) in the health,  expenditure reviews (for  reviews (for year 2003) in  procedures within the
education, justice and basic  year 2002) in the health,  the health, education,  framework of the medium
infrastructure sectors    education, justice, basic  justice, basic infrastructure  term expenditure plans;
infrastructure and rural  and rural development     Implementation of these
development sectors       sectors                   recommendations in the
Budget
Monitoring of performance  Monitonng of performance  Monutoring of performance
indicators included in the  indicators included in the  indicators included in the
medium term expenditure   medium term expenditure   medium term expenditure
plans of the health and   plans of the health and   plans of the health,
education ministries      education ministries      education, justice, basic
infrastructure and rural
development ministries



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                             Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                     Page 13 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Reform of the budget cycle
PRSPAxis: Promotegood governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Improve evaluation, monitoring and control to establish the correct execution of the budget and measure the impact of expenditures on
poverty reduction
Specific objective  Before end December  Before end June 2003              Before end June 2004               Monitorable output
(Prumary responsible)       2002
Improve the arrival of  Completion of the  Completion and implementation of an  Completion of a facility survey in the  Annual tracing of
public expenditures at  public expenditure  action plan to improve the arrival of  education sector, update of the action  expenditures in health
their ultimate       tracking survey;      expenditures to health and education  plan and continued implementation  and education and
destination          Preparation of a draft facilities (*)                                                   implementation of
(Ministry of Finance,  action plan to improve                                                                related action plans
Sector Ministries,   the arrival of        Launching of a facility survey in the
PRSP Steering        expenditures at their  health sector
Committee)           ultimate destination
for health and        Cornpletion of a facility survey in the                           Health facility survey
education             health sector, update of the action plan                          completed and analyzed,
and contnued implementation                                        action plan adopted
Posting of allocated public       Posting of allocated public
expenditures in all health and education  expenditures in all health and
facilities                        education facilities
Computerization of the  Computerization of the DMV from the  Computerization of the DMV from  Annual adoption of
Division of material  center to the Department and to the  the center to the Department and to  performance contracts
resources (DMV) in the  district in the Health sector   the municipality in the Education  for basic health and
Mmistry of Health                                       sector;                         education facilities
Computerization of the DMV m the                                   between government,
Ministry of Education             Adoption and posting of performance  managers and users
contracts for basic health and
education facilities between
.__________________          government, managers and users
Evaluate the budget                                                          Independent evaluation and adoption  Evaluation report and
cycle reform program                                                         of action plan for adjustment   action plan
and adjust if necessary



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                              Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                      Page 14 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Public procurement reform
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Strengthen the regulatory framework for public procurement
Specific objective     Before end December 2002          Before end June 2003       Before end June 2004      Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)
Clarify the role of the  Finalization of a ftrst draft of the  Submission to Parliament of the  Promulgation of the new  Clear definition of the role
various institutions  new Public Procurement Code     new Procurement Code         Procurement Code including  of the various institutions
intervening in the   including an independent         including an independent     an independent procurement  intervening in the public
regulation, attribution,  procurement appeals system; and  procurement appeals system, and  appeals system, and of its  procurement process
audit and conflict   organization of a stakeholder    preparation of draft         implementation decrees
resolution for public  seminar to discuss the draft   implementation decrees (*)                             A new Public Procurement
procurement                                                                        Training for all institutions  Code and its
(DGMP)                                                                             involved in public        inmplementation decrees
procurement - including   adopted, published and
regional authorities -    implemented
regarding new Procurement
Code and appeals          New and independent
procedures                appeals procedures fully
operational
Design and implement an
accreditation system for
people responsible for
public procurement
Modification of the articles of the                                                     Restricted use of limited
public procurement code referring                                                       biddmg procedures
to the procedure of limited bidding
with a view to eliminating abuse of
this procedure
Launching of the recruitment of                                                         More transparency in
independent observers for the                                                           public procurement as
public procurement bid evaluation                                                       witnessed by regular
boards in the health and education                                                      reports of observers
.____________   sectors



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                             Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                     Page 15 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Triggcr for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Public procurement reform
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Strengthen the regulatory framework for public procurement
Specific objective     Before end December 2002         Before end June 2003       Before end June 2004      Monitorable output
(Pnmary responsible)
Modification of article 2 of decree
357/PMIPR/2001 in order to require
the Minister of Finance's approval
for the attribution of any public
contract of an amount exceeding
CFAF S00 millions, in addition to the
approval by the President of the
competitive bidding commLssion
(CA C)
Nomination by the Minister of
Finance of the Commitment and
Financial Control Directorate's
representatives in all the public
procurement commissions
Preparation of standard bidding  Publication and      Standard bidding
documents                    dissemination of standard  documents used
bidding documents        systematically
Training to the use of
standard bidding documents
Implement a training plan on the  Select staff in charge of public  Continue training plan on
principles of public procurement  procurement accordmg to their  the principlcs of public
competencies                 procurement
Continue training plan on the
principles of public procurement
Create curriculum m public      Launching of curriculum in
procurement at ENAM             public procurement at ENAM



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                             Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                     Page 16 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Publc procurement reform
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Strengthen transparency and ex-post control of public procurement
Specific objective     Before end December 2002  Before end June 2003     Before end June 2004           Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)
Improve the transparency of  Publish a quarterly public  Improve bulletin; Continue  Continue the publication on  Quarterly publication of a
pubhc procurement          procurement bulletin;     the publication on hardcopy  hardcopy and on a website of  public procurement bullctin
(DGMP)                     Launch a website and post  and on a website of the  the quarterly procurement
the quarterly bulletin (Jan,  quarterly procurement  bulletin and post standard
Apr, Jul, Oct)            bulletin (*)               bidding documents
Launch the design of a    Implement computerized     Extend the computerized
computerized monitoring   system for procurement and  monitoring system for    Computerized monitoring
system for procurement    issue a report             procurement to line ministries  system fully operational
and regional delegations
Strengthen ex-post control of  Completion of an audit of  Publication of the audit of the  Completion of the audit of  Annual completion and
public procurement        the five biggest          five biggest contracts for  2002 procurement contracts  website publication of the
(Auditor General's Office)  procurement contracts for  2001                    and procurement system;    audit of public procurement
2001 and the adoption of a                           Identification and adoption of  contracts and the functioning
methodology for the annual  Launching of an audit of  measures to improve the  of the procurement system
audit of procurement      2002 procurement contracts  auditing methodology if
contracts as well as the  and procurement system (*)  needed; Publication of the
procurement system                                   2002 audit
Launching of the audit for
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _  _____ _2003
Website publication of 2001  Wcbsite publication of 2002  Website publication of 2003  Annual website publication of
annual activity report of the  annual activity report of the  annual activity report of the  the report of the Auditor
Auditor General's Office  Auditor General's Office   Auditor General's Office  General's Office



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                             Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                     Page 17 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Public procurement reform
PRSPAxis: Promotegood governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Strengthen transparency and ex-post control of public procurement
Specific objective     Before end December 2002  Before end June 2003     Before end June 2004           Monitorablc output
(Primary responsible)
Completion by the General  Website publication of the
Auditor Office of the audit of  audit of the use of HIPC
all contracts financed by  funds between May 2001 and
HIPC interim assistance   May 2002 (*)
resource, and if necessary,
launching of disciplinary
actions and reimbursement of
the virtualpoverty fund
Reimbursement to the virtual
poverty,fund of the amounts
already paui with regard to
the two contracts cancelled
Evaluate public procurement                          Independent evaluaton of  Independent evaluation of  Evaluation report and action
reform and adjust reform                             procurement reformn and   procurement reform and     plan for adjustment
program if necessary                                 adoption of action plan for  adoption of action plan for
adjustment                adjustnent



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                               Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                        Page 18 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Civil service reform
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Update the legislative, regulatory and organizational framework for the civil service
Specific objective     Before end December 2002      Before end June 2003       Before end June 2004        Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)
Update the legislative and  Promulgation of the new   Issue the implementation   Issue the implementation    New civil service status Law
regulatory framework to    civil service status Law   decrees for remuneration,  decrees for allocations     and associated 29
introduce the principles of  introducing competitive  travel, and the statutes for                          implementation decrees fully
competitive recruitment and  recruitment and merit-   special professions                                    operational
mernt based advancement    based advancement
(CESRAP)
Issue decree fixing new    Prepare and issue the      Prepare and issue the 20
salary scale as well as the  inplementation decrees for  remaining implementation
modalities of transition   performance evaluation,    decrees
between the old and the new  training and recruitment
scale
Prepare the implementation                            Prepare and issue decrees of
decrees for remuneration,                             the indemnity system
travel, and allocations                               following the audit of
ninistries
Prepare the statutes for                              Prepare and issue decree for
special professions                                   organizational framework
following the audit of
ministries



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                               Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                        Page 19 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Civil service reform
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Update the legislative, regulatory and organizational framework for the civil service
Specific objective   Before end December       Before end June 2003            Before end June 2004            Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)          2002
Reorganize the        Recruitment of the audit  Adoption of methodology for  Comnpletion of the audit of the 9  Ministries audited
structures and human  company for the audit  the audit of the nine pilot  ministries and identification of surplus
resources of 9 pilot  for 9 pilot ministries  ministries covering        personnel /staffing needs
mninistries, of a second  covering operational,  organizational, procedural and
and (if necessary) a  procedural and human    human aspects, and collection  Launching and completion of the audit
third group(s) of    resources aspects        of basic data and          of the 2 group of ministries and
ministries, in order to                       documentation (*)          identification of surplus
realign their                                                            personnel/staffing needs
organization with their                       Launching of the request for
poverty reduction                             proposals for the audit of 2nd  Launching, if necessary, of the request
objective                                     group of ministries covering  for proposals for the audit of 3nd group
(CESRAP and line                              operational, procedural and  of ministries covering operational,
mninistries)                                  human resources aspects    procedural and human resources
aspects
Definition of employment framework,  Employment framework
priority posts and identification of the  reflecting poverty reduction
profile for each post in the audited pilot  mission implemented in 9
ministries                         pilot munistries
Adoption of the emnployment        Priority posts and their
framework, priority posts and profile  profiles defined for 9 pilot
for each post for the 9 pilot ministries  ministries
Definition of emnployment framework,
priority posts and identification of the
profile for each post in the 2nd group of
.__________________________  audited ministries



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                              Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                      Page 20 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(t) Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Civil service reform
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overall objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Update the leglative, regulatory and or anizational framework for the civil service
Specific objective  Before end December 2002   Before end June 2003          Before end June 2004            Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)
Evaluation of the need for a voluntary  Voluntary departure program
departure program in the 9 audited pilot completed if deemed
ministries                         necessary
Adoption of the modalities of a
voluntary departure program, if needed,
in the 9 pilot ministnes;
Implementation of the voluntary
departure program
Evaluation of the need for a voluntary
departure program in the 2d group of
ministries
Objective: Improve the transparency of human reso rce management and the acc untability of public personnel
Specific objective  Before end December 2002  Before end June 2003    Before end June 2004                   Monitorablc output
(Primary responsible)
Manage human         Adopt terms of reference for                       Finalize SAP, organize training and test SAP fully operational in 9
resources according to  the adoption of the                              SAP in the 9 audited pilot rninistries;  pilot mmnistries
the principles of    performance based                                   Adopt SAP in the 9 audited pilot
competitive          evaluation system (SAP)                             mininstries
recruitment and merit-
based advancement    Draft proposal for        Finalize proposal for
(CESRAP and line     competitive recruitment and  competitive recruitment and
ministries)          harmonization of the      harmonization of the                                        Recruitment and professional
regulatory framework     regulatory framework;                                        tests systematically used
Launch recruitment and
._____ _I professional test exams (*)



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                              Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                      Page 21 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent progran-lending
Civil service reform
PRSP Axis: Promote good governance
Overal objective: Ensure efficient and transparent public resource management with a view to poverty reduction
Objective: Improve the transparency of human resource management and the accountability of public personnel
Specific objective  Before end December 2002  Before end June 2003            Before end June 2004           Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)
Strengthen the       Identification of all     Final update of the payrol based on
efficiency and       persons included in the   the update of the 2000 census of civil
transparency of public  payroll by Ministry and  servants and on the lst of all
personnel management  of corresponding amounts  personnel included in the payroll (*)
(CESRAP and line     in view of the finalization
ministries)          of the update of the      Monthly update of the list of all
payrol on the basis of the  personnel included in the payroll;
results of the census    quarterly review of the list                                 SIG fully operational
(December, March, June) (*)
SIG integrated in
Imnplement management of posts and                          computerized expenditure
skhlls                                                      circuit
Design an integrated and  Install and launch the computerized
computerized personnel   SIG
management system                                                                     Merit-based advancement
covering a harmonized    Integrate the SIG with the                                   lined to SAP integrated in
payroll and civil service file  comnputenzed expenditure system and                   SIG
(SIG)                    with the merit-based advancement
system linked to the SAP
Evaluate the civil                            Independent cvaluation and adoption  Independent evaluation and  Evaluation report and action
service reform                                 of action plan for adjustment    adoption of action plan for  plan
program and adjust if                                                           adjustnent
necessaryv



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                              Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                      Page 22 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Cotton sector reform
PRSPrAxis: Ensure strFng and sustained economic groah
General objective: Enhance efficiency ion the prodution of the cotton fiber
Objective: Disengage   state from cotton production and improve  thnical and financial perHmance of Cotontchad
Specific objecive          Before end Decesnber 2002         Before end June 2003   Before end June 2004     Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)
Disengage the state  Transfer actvities of DHS to the newly                                                Autonomous HS legally
from Cotontchad's oil  created HS, legally separated from                            Privatize HS          created
and soap produrion   Cotontchadt
activities (CTRC)                                                                                          HS privapszed
Launch the bidding process Of rS; open  Complete the tender for
bids                                    bids for a strategic
investor for HS
Launch the bidding process for an
environroental audit of Cotontchad and HS  Fmalize the
environmental audit of
Complete the enviromental audit of      Cotontchad and HS
Cotontchad and HS
Improve the financial  Audit the cash-flow situaton of Cotostchad                                          See perforfance indicators of
manngement of                                                                                              the action plan for
Cotontchad during the  Preparation of an action plan identifying  Full urnlementation of                   Cotontchad.
trtionIt   perivatizabon   cost-cutting measures for the operation of  the cost-cutting measures
referenceoCotontchad, for implementation during the  (measures as of end-June)
2002-2003 cotton season                 for the operaaon of
Cotontchad durtng the
2002-2003 season  )
Assessment of the Controller General's
past mandate and revision of his terms of
reference to accornpany the implementation
of the Cotontchad's action plan



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                               Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                        Page 23 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Cotton sector reform
PRSP Axis. Ensure strong and sustained economic growth
General objective: Enhance efriciency in the production of the cotton fiber
Objective: Disengage the state from cotton production and improve technical and financial performiance of Cotontchad
Specific objective     Before end December 2002      Before end June 2003       Bcfore end June 2004        Monitorable output
(Primary  rcsponsible)  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Disengage the state from   Launch the study on        Completion of scenario study  Organization of the investors'  Cotontchad privatized
Cotontchad (CTRC)          alternative privatization  for the privatization of   forum and the farmers' forum
scenarios                  Cotontchad including
accomnpanying measures     Adoption of a pnvatization
scenario by HCI
Prepare an investors' fonum
and a farmers' forum to    Launch the bidding process
discuss the altemative     for selecting (the) strategic
disengagement scenarios,   investor(s) for Cotontchad
including the poverty and
social impact of each scenario  Identification of investor(s)
(*)                        and completion of the
privatization process
Implementation of measures  Accorpanying measures
accompanying the           timnely implemented
privatization scenario
Conduct an ex-ante and ex-  Launch the ex-ante analysis  Conduct the first round of the  Conduct the first round of the  EIx-ante and ex-post poverty
post poverty and social    of the poverty and social  quantitative ex-ante analysis  ex-post poverty and social  and social impact analysis
impact analysis of the cotton  impact of analysis of the                          impact analysis of the cotton  taken into account for
sector reform program      identified scenarios                                  sector reform program       decision making in the cotton
(CTRC, Ministry of                                                                                           sector reform program
Agriculture, INS)



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                              Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                      Page 24 of 25
Italics: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Cotton sector reform
PRSP Axis: Ensure strong and sustained economic growth
General objective: Increase cotton farmers' incomes
Objective: Make cotton farmers full partners in the cotton industry
Specific Objective     Before end December 2002     Before end June 2003       Before end June 2004        Monitorable output
(Primary responsible)
Develop the institutional and  Report on the funds saved by  Adopt an action plan for
organizational capacities of  CCL and cotton producer  institutional strengthening of
cotton farmers' associations                          the CCL (*)
(CCL) (CTRC, Ministry of   Launch the institutional   Implement the action plan for  Continue the implementation  Implementation reports for
Agriculture)               diagnostic of the CCL      institutional strengthening of  of the action plan for  the action plan for
the CCL                    institutional strengthening of  institutional strengthening of
the CCL                    the CCL
Hold the elections for the  Hold the elections for village                      Elections reports (proces
members of the CCL boards  and canton representatives                           verbaux >>)
Launch the baseline survey                                                      Results of the surveys to be
on the institutional and                                                        conducted every six months
organizational capacity of the                                                  with cotton producers to
CCL; and on the fanners'                                                        assess progress made
access to economic and                                                          compared to the baseline
financial information and to
management services
huprove farmers' access to  Launch a market information  Continue market mformation  Use the results of the surveys  Results of the surveys
information rcgarding market  campaign regarding world  campaign with cotton    to update the market
conditions for cotton, and to  mnarket conditions for cotton  producers         information campaign
management services        and for agricultural inputs
(CTRC)                                                Continue regular surveys with  Continue market information  Farmers' situation has
cotton producers           campaign                   improved compared to the
baseline survey's results
Launch a study on the      Finahze a study on the     Creation of the first
creation of managemnent    creation of the management  management services centers
services centers          services centers; and adopt an
action plan for their
._____  _establishment.



SAC V Policy and Action Matrix                                              Annex 2
Bold: Measure selected as a prior action for SAC V                                                                      Page 25 of 25
Itahcs: Action covered under the PRGF program
(*): Trigger for the preparation of subsequent program-lending
Promote Rural Development through Microfinance
PRSP Axis: Ensure strong and sustained economic growth
General objective: Improve Access to Microfinance
Objective: Adopt and implement a microfinance strategy targebig the poor
Specific Objective     Before end December 2002      Before end June 2003      Before end June 2004        Monitorable output
(Primary reswnsible)
Strengthen the legal and   Organize a seminar to     Adoption by HCI of the
institutional framework for  validate the national   national rnicrofinance policy
mnicrofinance services    rmicrofinance policy
(Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Trade, COBAC,  Adoption by CEMAC         Publish implementation      Carry out an informnation  National microfinance policy
CNC/IMFI                   countries of a regulatory  decrees of the new regulatory  campaign and training of  adopted
framework for MFI         framework, including         MFI on the new regulatory
prudential ratios           framework                Regulatory framework
implemented
Prepare a study on information
and training policy for MFI,                         Relationship between banks
and set up a national training                        and MFI facilitated
institute
Propose a Program to                                   Design and implement an  Increase in the use of leasing
strengthen the External                                action plan to promote   services
Finance Directorate in view                           leasing services
of the registration and
supervision of MFI
Improve access of the poor  Prepare terms of Reference  Completion of the study and  Strengthening of the risk  Increase in the amount of
(especially women) to      for a study on the creation of  workshop; Creation of the risk  centralization agency  savings and credits in MFI
microfinance services (CNC,  a risk centralization agency  centralization agency
MFI)                       for MFI
Launch a review of the      Design and imnplement     Higher proportion of women
deterninants of access to   action plan to improve    in MFI's members/clients
microfinance services for the  access of the poor to
._________________________  poor                       m icrofinance  activities



Annex 3
Page 1 of I
CHAD - Progress toward Achieving HIPC Initiative Completion Point Triggers
PRSP
e Ensure that a fully participatory PRSP has been prepared and satisfactonly  PRSP expected to be completed by end March 2003.
implemented for at least one year, as evidenced by the joint staff assessment of the
country's annual progress report.
Macroeconomic stability
e Continue maintenance of macroeconomic stability and satisfactory implementation of  Ongoing.
PRGF-supported program.
Governance
* Make satisfactory progress in strengthening public expenditure management to  Simplified expenditure circuit and its limited computerization introduced in
facilitate the identification and tracking of poverty-related spending, as evidenced by  January 2002. Preparation of implementation of integrated system launched.
the implementation for at least six months of the simplified and computenzed  First expenditure tracking exercise in education completed in May 2002. Action
expenditure circuit, and a functional expenditure-tracing system for primary education  plan to be adopted in early 2003
services
5 Adopt a new law on public procurement and its application decrees; publish a  Four issues of quarterly bulletin pubitshed.
quarterly bulletin on public procurement; complete audits by internationally reputed  Preparation of new procurement code launched inA pril 2002. Draft code
firms for the five largest public procurement contracts granted in 2001, adopt the  prepared and discussed in September 2002 and January 2003.
Budget Settlement Law for year 2000 before the adoption of the Budget Law for year  Ex-post audit of2001 public procurement published.
2002, and, similarly, adopt the Budget Settlement Law for year 2001 before the  Budget Settlement Lawfor 2000 and 2001 transmitted to Parliament.
adoption of the Budget Law for year 2003; and nominate the judges for the
commercial courts in the five largest cities.
e Adopt a govemance strategy and action plan in consultation with IDA and the IMF  Governance strategy and action plan completed and adopted in August 2002
and implement it for at least one ycar.
Priority sectors
Health
a Ensure thatat least75 percentofall health district structures and health centers  79 percent of all health district structures and 64 percent ofall health centers
accross tine country are operational, up from 68 percent in 1999.        operational in 2001.
e Achieve a DPT3 vaccination rate of at least 40 percent up from 35 percent In 1999,  DPT3 vaccination rate 43 percent in 2000,and projected to have declined to 39
and an assisted delivery rate of at least 20 percent, up from 15 percent n 1998  percent to in 2001.
Assisted delivery rate in public health centers increasedfrom 9.4 percent in
1998 to 12.1 percent In 2000 and an estimated 21.3 percent in 2001
HlVtAIDS and sexually transmitted linfectons
* Increase the sale of condoms through the social nmarketing project MASOCOT by at  A total of 2.425 million condoms were sold by MASOCOT in 2001 (8 percent
least 25 percent over the 2 239 million condoms sold in 2000.            increase) and an estimated 3.7 million in thefirst 9 months of 2002
* Increase the treated cases of genital ulcers to at least 30,000 per year, up from 12,000  Treated cases ofgenital ulcers declUned to 8.225 in 2000 and treated cases of
in 1998, and the treated cases of purulent urethritis to at least 40,000 per year, up from  purulent urethritis declined to 14,770 In 2000. Prevalence of syphilis among
21,000 in 1998. Decrease the prevalence of syphilis among pregnant women from 6  pregnant women 5.7 percent in 2000.
percent in 1998 to at most 4 percent.
Education
* Increase the gross primary enrollment rate to at least 61 percent for girls and 89  1999-2000 gross primary enrollment rate is 55 percentfor girls and 88 percent
percent for boys, up from 50 percent and 85 percent, respectvely, in 1998-99  for boys
* Reduce the repeater rate from 26 percent in 1998-99 to at most 22 percent.  No progress made on repeater rate In 1999-2000.
Basic Infrastructure
e Ensure that at least 50 percent of tbe all-year road network can be used throughout the  43.5 percent of all-year road network can be used throughout the year in
year (80 percent of the network can not be used for three to five months during the  December 2001
rainy season).
Rural development
* Increase access to potable water to at least 32 percent, up from 27 percent in 2000.  29 percent in May 2002.
* Increase the share of agricultural families equipped with plows from 24 percent in  11,000 plows ord ered, need to define distribution programs with microfinance
2000 to at least 26.                                                    institutions.
e For livestock holders increase the number of water points by at least 10 percent,  96 water points completed by May 2002 and 146 more under construction.
relative to 1138 water points in 2000.



Anmex 4
Page I of 2
Chad: Expenditure Accountability Assessment Update
Indicator and Benchmark Description        Actions to Strengthen - From   S/     Progress to Date on Action Plans and Indicated
(Same for all)                      Agreed Action Plans        M*              Improvements (Outcomes)
Budget Formulation
I    Composition of budget entity - meets GFS  Further improve budget classification  M  Ongoing - Technical assistance from the World Bank
definition of general government                                               and the European Union.
2    Limitations to use of off-budget transactions  N/A - meets benchmark      -   N/A
- extra-budget expenditures are not
substantial
3    Reliability of budget as guide to outturn-  N/A - meets benchmark         -   N/A
level - composition of outturn is quite close                                  N/A
to budget
4    Data on donor financing - Both capital and  N/A - meets benchmark         -    N/A
_     current donorfunded expenditures included
5    Classification of budget transactions -  N/A - meets benchmark            -   N/A
_      functional or program information provided
6    Identification of poverty reducing     N/A - meets benchmark              -    N/A
expenditures - identifi cation through use of
classification system
7    Quality of multi-year expenditure projections Introduce an MTEF into budget and  S  The MTEF and program budgets have been prepared
-projections are integrated into budget  program budgeting in health and       and submitted to the parliament with the Budget Law.
formulation                             education by 2003                      They will be further improved and refined in 2003.
Budget execution
8    Level of payment arrears- low level of  Improve the use of 12-month cash  S   Progress on the use of cash flow plans slowed down
arrears accumulated.                   flow plans; payment priority to be      during the past year but resumed in June 2002. This
given to priority sectors              action is supported by the IMR. Recommendations were
made in the PER to further improve budget execution in
.priority sectors and included in the SAC V matrix.
9    Quality of internal audit - effective internal  Report to be published by IGF on  S  Report published on budget execution in 2001.
audit function                         anomnalies in budget execution



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Indicator and Benchmark Description        Actions to Strengthen - From    S/     Progress to Date on Action Plans and Indicated
(Same for all)                      Agreed Action Plans         M*              Improvements (Outcomes)
10   Use of tracking surveys - tracking used on a  Introduce tracking surveys in health  S  Well advanced- Tracking surveys completed and action
regular basis                           and education ministries; support      plan about to be finalized and adopted; computerization
computerization of division of          achieved in the health ministry at the central level.
materiel resources in health and
education
11   Quality of fiscal/banking data reconciliation  Ensure timely reconciliation  S  Supported by the IMF. Delays still exist but significant
- reconciliation of fiscal and monetary data                                    progress has been made.
carried our on a routine basis
Budget Reporting
12   Timeliness of internal budget reports -  Simplify the expenditure circuit;  S  Simplification achieved ; Monthly tables issued on
monthly expenditure reports provided within  Support computerization           budget execution by Ministry at the four stages of the
four weeks of end of month                                                      chain, but still manually as far as the payment stage is
concerned. Computerization should take place in early
2003.
Improve monitoring of investment   M    Ongoing
budget execution
13   Classification used for budget tracking -  Implement monitoring at the four  S  Monthly report on budget execubon issued by Ministry.
timely functional reporting derivedfrom  stages of the circuit on a functional
classif cation system                   basis
14   Timeliness of accounts closure - accounts  Improve timeliness of accounts  S   Ongoing
closed within two months ofyear end     closure
15   Timeliness of final audited accounts -  N/A - meets benchmark              -   N/A
audited accounts presented to legislature
within oneyear_
* Benchmark descriptions reflect Board Paper of February 21, 2002.
* Action plans were agreed between the Government, the IMF, and World Bank.
* S = short term, i.e. action that is expected to be completed in one year. M = medium term, i.e action that is expected to be completed in 2-3
years.
* Progress to datc should include short description of progress and improvements, and should note degree of implementation, i.e. whether
implementation has started, is underway, or is complete.



Annex 5
Pagel of 2
Chad - Relations with the International Monetary Fund
On October 18, 2002, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
completed the fourth review of Chad's performnance under the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement, and approved requests for extension of the
commitment period and waiver for the nonobservance of one performance criterion. As a
result, Chad was able to draw up to SDR 5.4 million (about US$7 million).
Chad's three-year arrangement was approved on January 7, 2000 for SDR 36.4 million
(about US$48 million). This amount was augmented to SDR 47.6 million (about US$62
million). So far, Chad has drawn SDR 37.2 million (about US$42 million) under the
arrangement.
After the Executive Board discussion on Chad, Anne Krueger, First Deputy Managing
Director and Acting Chair, said:
"Chad's economic performance has been good so far in 2002. Economic growth has been
very strong, aided by the implementation of the oil pipeline project; inflation has declined
as food production has normalized; and foreign reserves have risen despite low cotton
prices. The large fiscal and current account deficits do not represent a risk as they reflect
the acceleration of antipoverty spending and the construction of the pipeline. Moreover,
these deficits are expected to narrow sharply in 2004 with the commencement of oil
revenues.
"The fiscal stance will need to be significantly tightened in 2003 given the anticipated
decline in external financing. Therefore, the program puts strong emphasis on domestic
revenue mobilization. Total expenditure will need to decrease, but the program allows for
an increase in expenditure in priority sectors for poverty reduction.
"Further efforts are needed to improve governance. To this end, there needs to be a
consistent political commitment to implement the recommendations of the Supreme
Court's audit of the contracts financed with the savings from the HIPC Initiative interim
assistance, to accelerate the preparation and implementation of a new procurement code,
to enhance transparency and accountability by systematically publishing all audits, and to
implement the measures identified to improve budget preparation, monitoring, and
control.
"With oil production expected to come on stream in early 2004, the challenge facing
Chad is to put all necessary arrangements in place on time to ensure an efficient and
transparent use of oil revenue for poverty reduction. It will be important that the
authorities take action early in 2003 to define the modalities that will ensure the
transparent use of oil revenue in accordance with the absorptive capacity of priority
sectors. With a view to avoiding a real appreciation arising from large foreign exchange



Annex 5
Page2 of 2
inflows, the government will review the role of fiscal policy over the medium term and
develop sterilization instruments with the assistance of the BEAC.
"Progress in achieving the HIPC Initiative completion point has been satisfactory overall,
despite delays in improving some health indicators and in finalizing the PRSP. Chad
could reach the completion point in early 2004.
"In view of the overall performance under the program, and taking into consideration the
renewed commitment of the authorities to strengthen further transparency in public
resource management, Executive Directors granted a waiver for the nonobservance of
one quantitative performance criterion; completed the fourth review under the PRGF
arrangement; and approved the requested extension of the commitment period of the
current arrangement to December 6, 2003," Ms. Krueger said.



Annex 6
Page I of 2
Chad at a glance                                                                 1'17'03
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan       Low-
Chad      Africa   Income      Devalopment diamond
2001
Populatdon. mid-year (nm7tons)                           7.9       674     2.511                  Ulfo expectancy
GNI per capita (Afaas method, USS)                      200        470       430
GNI (Alias method USS billons)                          16        317     1,069
Average annual grotw. 1995.01
PopulaUon (I)                                            26        25         19
Laborlorce (%t                                           29        2.6        2.3     GNI                              Gmrss
per                             pnmrary
Moat recent estmbtee(loat year available, 199541)                                     caplla                       onrottment
Poverty (IofpopulatIonbelw natAonalpovertyine)           64
Urban populatlon (f of to/al populalon)                  24         32        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         50         47        59
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                103         91        76
Child rmlnutirton (% of children under 5)                28          32                    Accese to Improved water source
Access to an Irrproved water source  (% of populatIn)    27         55        76
Illiteracy (t ofpopulatI t age 15.)                      67         37        37
Gross prtmary enrollment  (% of schoot aoe populalton)   72         78        96             Chad        LowvInoome group
Male                                                   86         85       103
Ferrale                                                55         72        68
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991       2000      2001
GDP (USS billions)                            0.68       1.9       1.4        16
Gross donvestic InvestmenUGOP                            6.5      170       41 7
ExportsofgoodsandservceasGDP                  151       120       16.6      14.3                      Trade
Gross domestic savtngsiGDP                              -59        1.5        1.7
Gross nalonal savingstGDP                               .1 1       3 2       2 9
Current account balancelGDP                    -24      .76       -139      -38       Domstc
Interest payrrinWVGDP                          0 0       02        06        0 7      DmsavInB                    Investnient
Total debUGOP                                 296       33.5      794       67 7                 +
Total debt servlcotexports                     87        4.5       1 1       18.3
Present value of debttGDP                                         41 8
Present vatue of debtlexports                                    247 2
Indebtedness
1981.91  199141      2000       2001   2001405
(average annuai growth)
GOP                                   58       25        0.6       8.5      21.6              Chad        Low-ncomeogroup
GDP per capita                        3.2     .0.5      -2.1       5.4      18.1
Export ol goods and servces            8       0.7       4 9       .7.4     69.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991       2000      2001      Growth of Investennt and GDP (%)
Agricuture                                    397       385       39 2      38 6      200
Industry                                      117       13.3      13.8      13.7     1500/
Manufactudng                                          106        11.2      10.2     10-
Services                                      48 5      50 2      47 0      47.7      ao.t
Pnvate consumption                                      97 0      90.7       90.5     so    r      a7    es    5    00    0
General govemment counuptlion                            8 9       7.8        7.6                    GDI     -0'   GDP
Imports of goods and servIces                 22.7     24 4       32.0      54.3
198141   1991401       2000      2001      Growth of xports and inporls (%(
(average annual growth)
Agdculture                                     3.5       2 9       -3 8       41     200
Industry                                       5 9       4 2       0 5       12 4    1toJP
Manufactudng                                           3 6       -1.9       0 2     100Im
Services                                       6 2       1.7       3 6       10.4  6   0 /
Privata consumptlon                            3 8       18        -3 0     29 3       0 
Generaigovemmentconsurption                   130       00         30         80     -50           9                      61
Gross dofestc lnvesmnwt                       180        6 8      36 0      172 0                  Exports    -t-mports
tmports ol goods and serces                    9 3       1 2       8.4     158 6
Note 2001 data are pretrrinary estimates
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country On bold) compared vwth Its income-group average. It data are mssing. the dlamond wAl
be Incomplete



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Chad
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1981     1991      2000     2001      IrlItl9on 1%)
(% change)                                                                         o 
Consumer prices                                .      4.1        3 8     12 4     ,t
Imptlcit GOP deflator                         8.1     3 1        3 4      7 9      5
Govemnmentfnnance
(% of GOP, Includes curnen grants)                                                        s
Current revenue                                 .     9 0        8 0      7.8    .10
Currenl budget balance                          .     -1.3      -2.0     -1 5            -     GDP doat r       CP
Overall surplustdeflct                         .      -6 2      -8 8     -5.1
TRADE
1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill
(US$ Millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   194       181       178     500
Commodity I                                          95         71       67     so 
Commodrty2                                   ..      57         68       69
Manufactures                                  .       0 
Total Imports (cif)                                   343       243       539     300
Food                                          .       720
Fuel anvd entergyII                                                      2      10
Capital goods                                                            26      0
ExporlpriceIndex(1995=100)                            136       107       116          gs   so  rr      ra      oo    o
Import price Index (1995=1OO)                         135        91        92                M Eupcr       Ulrrpons
Temis of trade (1395= 100)                     .      101       117       126
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mfillons)                             1981     1991      2000     2001      Cunentaccount balance to GDP (S)
Expons of goods and services       8     8            224       233      228 o
Imports of goods and services                107      458       450      869       s5-
Resounce balance                              -19    -233      -217      *641     o                            |
Net Income                                    *1       -3        -'      '4
Net current trnwsfers                          .1      93        49        is     25
Current account balance                      -21     -143      -195     -621     -4
Financing dtems (net)                         19      135       187       626      o
Changes in net reserves                        2        8         8        *5     J5
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS ml7lions)          .        .      110       129
Conversion rate (DEC, IoceaWUS$)           271 7    282 1      713 0    732 4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS mIllIons)                                                                    Composition c1 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         289      629     1116     1,081
IBRD                                         0        0         0         9
IDA                                         36      235       515      SIG              E 117
Total debt service                             8       11        26        43
IBRD                                         0        0         0         1
IDA                                          0        2         8        11
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                  a l s1e
Official grantsD. 0
Official craditors                           3       89        18        24
Prtivate creditors                           6       -1        -1        -1
Foreign dimct Investment                     0        4        15         0
Portfoiiongulty                              0        0         0         0                    C 89
World Bank program
Connmitments                                 0        0       150       104     A - IBRD                   E - lateral
DIsbursements                                0       46        18        35     6-IDA     D-OthernuAUlateral  F-Ftvalse
Princpai repayments                          0        1         4         7     C-IMF                      G- Son-taerm
Net flows                                    0       48        13        28
Interest payments                            0        1         3         5
Net transfers                                0       44        10        24
Development Economics                                                                                              1117/03



Anmex 7
Page 1 of I
Chad Social Indicators
Latest single year               Same region/income group
Sub-
Saharan           Low-
1970-75       1980-85       199400               Africa       Income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                   4.0           5.1           7.7              m58 9        2,459 8
Growth rate (% annual average for penod)              2.0           2 7           2 9                2 6            2 0
Urban population (% of populatlon)                    15.8          19 9          23 8                34 4           31 9
Total ferbility rate (births per woman)                 8.3           7.2           6 4                5.2            3 6
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                                               .          64 0
Urban headcount Index                                  .             ..         830
Rural headcount index                                                            87.0
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                   230           210           200                470             410
Consumer price Index (1995=100)                                       77           129                 133            140
Food price index (1995=100)                                            0           121
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Pubilc expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                                                 2.3                24             12
Education (% of GDP)                                                              1.7                36             34
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)                0 2
Net primary school enrollment rate
(9% of age group)
Total                                                                             55
Male                                                               ..           68
Female                                                                          42
Access to an Improved water sourco
(% of population)
Total                                                                ..           27                  55             76
Urban                                                .             .            31                  82             88
Rural                                                              ..           28                  41             70
ImmunIzatIon rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                                              7            49                  53             57
DPT                                                                  3            43                  48             57
Child malnutition (% under 5 years)                      ..           35            28                   32
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                                 40            44            50                  47             59
Male                                                39            43                                46             58
Female                                              42            48                                47             60
Mortality
Infant (per 1,000 live births)                       159           118           103                  91             76
Under 5 (per 1,000 live births)                      252           219           188                 162            115
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                        554           556           433                 504            294
Female (per 1,000 population)                      492           449           383                459             261
Matemal (per 100,000 live births)                      ..            ..          827
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)              .            24             11
Note: 0 or 0 0 means zero or less than half the unit shown Net enrollment ratios exceeding 100 Indicate discrepancies
between the estimates of school-age population and reported enrollment data.
2002 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex 8
Page I of 3
Quad - Key Econonic Indicators
Nadonal accounts
(as % CDP at cumDnt
marit prices)
Grssdorsucproduct         1000     1000     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    1000     1000     100.0    100.0
Agncultw                  31 5    30.9     3&4      36.8     37.9     374      35.7     32.9     223       22.5
Irdyw                     122     126      144      13.9     13.4     13.3      134      130      9.2      9.7
Serce                     43.0    40 8     44 6     46 2     45.5     462      4&0      47.4     34 4      37.3
Total Cbnsnpon             967      977      95.9    1022      985      983      96.1     91.9     623      64.2
Om dcmnscfix                9.4     126      143      16.2     170      417      523      5Z0      158      12.5
ir   n
Govrmatn invsnnt           3.5     5.6      78       94       103      9.4      13.5     10.5     7.1       69
Pdvateiinvsnt             114      9.2      9.6      31       6.7     323      3&8      415       8.7       56
SJ)
E(orsN(aF)                 175      19.0     188      15.5     166      143      121      11.2     431      41.3
lrpofts(GNFS)              29 1     31.5     3Z1      302      320      54.3     60.5     551      21.2     1&0
Gdcross  csavt  xs          33      23       4.1      -2.2      1.5      1.7      3.9      8.1     37.7     35.8
Gmimdomlmvinasa             66       5.3     5.4      -1.5      3.2      29       28       75       73       9.0
,wvweSi ntram
Gossdcnrsdcproduct         1605    1508     1693     1566     1405     1602      1938    2418     3914      4226
(LSS mOron at curra
Grnmnowlpmdretpr          210.0    220.0    230.0    210.0    210.0    2100     220.0    260.0    300.0    300.0
capita (US$, Atlas nukd)
Real armua gimMh rtes
CK calclae fhorn 1995
pncca)
GCss&dntrstcproductat    2.4%    4.3%      7.3%     l.G%/    0.6%     8.5%    109%     136%     51.5%     60%
nniet pdics
nssDlestc bcorrnt        2.4%    4.3%     4.8%     0.7/o     1.1%    14.3%     9.0%/o  14.3%    63.0%      9/o
Rea amnal per capta
pta       (0/4 calclatCd
fonm 1995 pnces)
Grsi&nrstlcprcductat    -04%      1.5%    4.4%     -1 8%    -21%      54%      78%     104%     472%      30%
nmlce pnces
Total comnspflcn        -5 2N    2 5%     -.4%      3 2%    -4.90    2290/o    81%      8.3%    -36 0%  -145%
Pnvatcconswiption       -7.5%    43%      08u/o     08%     -570/o   25.8%     9.1%    102%     -3S.9%   -160%



Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports(GNFS)b               2820    2863     3138      241.7   2331      228.3    2355     2727    16785    17398
MerchandiseFOB             2383    2367     2612      1882     1814     177.9    1800     2105    16005    16565
Imports(GNFS)b              4672     4754     5105     473.9    4503     8688    1172.0    13338    8207      752.9
MercliandiseFOB            2433    2464     272.1     2439     243 1    5387     7185     846.7    498.5    436.4
Resource balance            -1852   -1891    -1967     -2322    -217.2   -6405    -9365   -1061 1    8578     9869
Netcurrenttransfers           613     630      529       277     490       181      138      17.5     175      175
(including official current
uransfers)
Currentaccount balance       -85.5   -901      -87 4   -169 8   -128 0   -548 2   -836 9   -962 4   -215 0    -29 0
(afler official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct    43 2    37 3     45.6     45.6      71 8    4580     679.6    7925     2362      894
investment
Long-tenn loans (net)
Official                    1039    125.4     981       941     433       554     171.5    1883      83.5     799
Private
Other capital (net, including
errors and omussions)
Change m reservesd            13 2    14.2     19 6     33 3      8 3      4 5     -21 8    -21 7   -111 0   -120 0
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of
GDP at current TrTket
pnces)
Real annual growth rates
(YR95 pnces)
Merchandiseexports          14 3%    5.0f/o   129%     -53%      49%     -74%      62%      590/o  4120%      5.3%
(FOB)
Prinmaiy                   11 9%/0  4.5%     11 4%    -5 5%
Manufactures               14 0%    0.0%      5.0%     61%
Metchand seinports          137%     3.3%      7.5%    121%      84%    1586%     247%      9.8%    454%     -162%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues              9.2      8.5      8.9      8.2      8 0      7.8      8.0       7 8      5 6      6.2
Currentexpenditures           9.4      84       75       91       10.0      94      110       8.5      59       64



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
brret accourt surplus(+)   -02       0 2      1 4      -0.9     -2.0      -15      -3.0     -0.7     -0.3      -0.2
ordefimt (-)
Capitalependita             9.1      9.7      7.8       9.4     10.3      9.4      13.6     10.5       71       72
Foreignfinancing           10.8     11.3      65        9.8      8.1      8.3      10.9      8.4      5.1       47
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP(atcum nwr1ket       15.8     13.3     11.0      10.6     12.3     12.9      14.2     13.7
Growthof N(C  )            202      -9.3     -62       -7.7     21.3     22.9      262      142
Privatesectorcreditgrowth  55.1   -1828     -1192      172     1019      47.1      718     130.1
total credit groth (%O)
Price indices( YR95 =100)
Mrdchazseexport pice      117.0    1063     1165       886      814      86.3      82.0     90.7     1348     132.5
index
Mecwxdsei rpot price      174.7    1658      99.2     80.1      72.9     625       66.8     71.7      774      808
index
Macxdbsetenmoftrade        67.0     64.1    1175      110.7    1117     138.0     122.7    126.5     1742     1639
mdex
Real exclange rate         65 3     65 4     65.4     62.5      646        ..6
Real iterest rates
Corsumer pice dux         118%     59%/a    4.4%     -8.4%     38%      124%      45%      4.0%      40%/o    30%/9
(% growti rate)
GDP deflator             11.70/o   2 8%     5 8%     4.50/9    3 4%      7.9%     3.7%/    4.2%      6.6%     1.6%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" deiotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net uweqmted eansfers excludng official capital unts.
Includies use of IMF rtesoura.
e. Consolidated Catial Govaenuir
f"LCU" daeotes "local cutency wiits." An increase in US$tLCU denotes appreciatiom



Annex 9
Page 1 of I
Chad - Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio) as of February 13, 2003
Active Projects                              Last PSR
Supervision              Original Amount in US$
Rating                        Millions
Project ID  Project Name                    DO    IP   Fiscal Year  IBRD     IDA     GRANT    Cancel. Undisbursed
P077240     Cntical elec & water services    #     #      2003                  54.8                        54.8
P055122     Healthsectorsupportproject       S     S      2000                 41.51                        31.0
Management of the petroleum
P062840     economy                          S     S      2000                  17.5                        11.5
P035672     Nat.transp.program support project  S  S      2001                    67                        53.0
P072226     Second Population and AIDS Project  S  S      2002                 24.56                        24.5
P048202     Td cap.bldg. Petroleum           S     S      2000                  23.7                        14.7
P000532     Td household energy              S     S      1998                  5.27                        1.7
P044305     Td/cm pipeline                   S     S      2000        39.5                                  30.2
TOTAL                                                                 39.5    234.34                       221.4
Closed Projects                                        35
IBRD/IDA *
Total Disbursed (Active)                          48.83
of which has been repaid                       0.00
Total Disbursed (Closed)                          630.84
of which has been repaid                      42.70
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)                 679.68
of wluch has been repaid                      42.70
Total Undisbursed (Active)                         221.4
Total Undisbursed (Closed)                          0.03
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)                221.4



Annex 10
Page 1 of 1
Chad - Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit
Timetable for Key Processing Events
Identification/Pre-appraisal: February, 2002
Concept Review Meeting:  June 20, 2002
ROC Meeting:             August 26, 2002
Appraisal:               January 13, 2003
Negotiations             January 30, 2003
Board Presentation       March 18, 2003
Effectiveness            April 2003
Task Team Members
The Task Team for the preparation of the Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit included:
Christine Richaud (Task Team Leader), AFTP3, Elisabeth Huybens (Task Team Leader,
up to July 2003), EACDF, Alassane Sow, AFTR2, Amadou Tidiane Toure, AFTPC,
Achille Toto Same, AFTP3, Barbara Verardo, YPP, Charles Donang Ningayo, AFTEG,
Gregor Binkert, Country Office Manager, AFMTD, Guenter Heidenhof, AFTPR, Jean-
Charles de Daruvar, LEGAF, J6r6me Chevallier, AFTPI, Joel Tokindang, AFTP3, Kene
Ezemenari, AFTP3, Lucia Chuo, AFTP3, Luc Lapointe, AFTQK, Mahamat Louani,
AFTH3, Melissa Thomas, Consultant, Michele Lioy, AFTH3, Mourad Ezzine, AFTH2,
Philippe De Naurois, Consultant, Salvatore Pedulla, Consultant.
Quality Assurance Reviewers
William Dorotinsky       Senior Public Sector Specialist, PRMPS
Anand Rajaram            Senior Public Sector Specialist, PRMPS



