Report No. PID11395
Project Name                     Republic of Chad-Fifth Structural
Adjustment Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Multisectoral
Project ID                       P077781
Implementing Agency              Cellule Economique
Ministry of Plan,
Development and Cooperation
N'Djamena, Chad
Tel. 235 52 61 81
Date prepared                    January 14, 2003
Appraisal date                   January 13, 2003
Projected Board Date             March 18, 2003
Country Background
1.      After nearly three decades of civil war, the government of Chad has maintained
relative peace and stability since 1993. Between 1994 and 1999, the authorities
restored the elementary functions of government, and established a solid
macroeconomic adjustment track record. Real GDP growth averaged 3.4 percent per
year. In 2000, Chad was hit by a drought which caused a sharp decline in
agricultural production, limiting real GDP growth to 0.6 percent.
2.        Real GDP growth resumed briskly in 2001, reaching 8.5 percent, driven by
oil-related investment and its spillover effects, as well as a return to normal
agricultural production. Since data on household incomes are not available for
Chad, it is difficult to assess the poverty reduction and distributional impact of
this development. However, it is reasonable to assume the recent spur in growth is
primarily benefiting the urban populations of N'Djamena and the southern secondary
cities through oil-investment related spill-over effects, especially in the
construction and services sectors. At the same time the southern rural population
is living the impact of the sharp drop in world cotton prices which is expected to
translate in a cumulative drop in farm gate prices of at least 25 percent between
the 2000-2001 and the 2002-2003 cotton campaigns.
3.      Combined with policy changes, the government's consistent budget increases for
education, health, and public works since 1994 have resulted in substantial progress
in the delivery of basic services.    For basic infrastructure,   43 percent of the
all-year road network can now be used throughout the year as opposed to 20 percent
in 2000. Most impressively, the gross school enrollment rate for boys and girls has
increased from 62 and 31 percent respectively in 1994-95 to 88 and 55 percent
respectively in 1999-2000, and the DPT vaccination rate has increased from 18
percent in 1994 to 43 percent in 2000. The quality of education has deteriorated,
however, and social indicators remain well below the average for sub-Saharan Africa.
Moreover, there are large regional differences for health and education indicators.
Poverty has also a strong gender dimension, as indicated by the high female
illiteracy and maternal mortality rates.
4.      Over the past 18 months, and assisted by SAC IV and the PRGF-supported
program, Chad has made good progress in the implementation of its structural reform
agenda. This includes measures in governance, financial and human public resource



management, incentive and trade policy, and privatization. The most prominent
recent accomplishments include the finalization of a national governance strategy;
the completion of an audit of the off-budget use of the oil signing bonus and its
publication; the completion of an audit of customs operations; the drafting of a new
procurement code; an audit of the public procurement system; the submission to
Parliament - for the first time ever - of the 2000 Budget Settlement Law and the
associated report of the Auditor General; the submission to Parliament of the 2001
Budget Settlement Law; the adoption by Parliament of new Civil Service Status Law
introducing competitive recruitment and merit-based advancement; the adoption of a
new education policy emphasizing the Government's support to community initiatives
in basic education; the completion of the privatization of the National Road
Maintenance Company; and the launching of the tender for bids for the privatization
of the Oil and Soap Company.
5.      With respect to macro-economic stability, in January, April and October 2002,
the IMF executive Board approved the quarterly reviews assessing performance at end-
September end-December 2001 and end-March 2002, respectively. Consistent with the
program, Chad's current primary deficit to GDP ratio decreased from 0.9 in 2000 to
0.8 percent in 2001. This was mainly the result of effective expenditure control,
as fiscal revenues declined further from 8.0 percent of GDP in 2000 to 7.8 percent
in 2001. The primary current deficit excluding grants is projected to have risen in
2002 from 0.8 percent of GDP in 2001 to 2 percent of GDP in 2002, reflecting the
impact of higher transfers to the cotton sector in the wake of the drop in the world
market price for cotton.
6.      Revenue collection started improving in the last quarter of 2001 and for the
first time in several years, Chad outperformed its March 2002 revenue target under
the PRGF supported program by about 8 percent. This was the result of a concerted
effort to reinforce tax and customs administration, including an anti-fraud
campaign. Tax administration has improved considerably with the extension of the
unique Tax Identification Number (NIF) from 1,772 firms in June 2001 to 4,010 in May
2002. Over the same period, the number of firms identified as "large" and subject
to a special tax regime has increased from 369 to 440. Several measures were taken
to reduce tax and customs fraud and corruption: (i) improved flows of information
between the procurement authority and the tax administration unit has contributed to
reducing under-reporting of companies' turnover; (ii) control of customs officers
has been reinforced and disciplinary action has been taken against about 200 corrupt
customs agents; and (iii) a considerable effort has been made to mobilize customs
duties from informal small-scale traders. As a result of all these efforts, revenue
mobilization is projected to have increased to 8.0 percent of GDP in 2002.
7.      Chad's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) was endorsed by the
Boards of both Bretton Woods Institutions in July 2000. The authorities are
currently finalizing the full PRSP, which is expected to be presented to the Bank
and Fund Boards in the second quarter of calendar year 2003. Chad's HIPC Decision
Point Document was approved by the Bank and Fund Boards in May 2001, and in December
2001 the Bank Board approved the Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit. Construction
of the Chad-Cameroon petroleum pipeline is advancing ahead of its original schedule,
and Chad is expected to collect oil revenues starting in the last semester of 2003.
Objectives and description
8.      Chad's draft PRSP lays out a strategy focusing on five strategic axes and
fifteen national objectives. The proposed Credit would assist Chad in launching the
implementation of two strategic PRSP axes: (i) improve the social, judicial,
political and economic environment; and (ii) ensure strong and sustained growth.
More precisely SAC V would make available USD 40 million to support a reform program
seeking to: (i) improve governance and transparency; (ii) increase the poverty
reduction impact of public expenditures; and (iii) promote growth in rural areas.
9.      As its predecessor, SAC IV, the proposed Credit will allow Chad to improve
- 2 -



governance and strengthen public resource management with a view to establishing the
financial safeguards for further program lending and ahead of the advent of oil
revenues in late 2003. By supporting careful analysis of past expenditures and
elaborating medium term expenditure plans for public services in health, education,
basic infrastructure, rural development and governance - including the tracing of
expenditures from the center to basic service facilities - it will pave the way for
subsequent operations to increasingly be broadened to selected sector issues drawn
from the PRSP agenda. Finally, it will contribute to poverty reduction in the rural
areas by supporting the cotton sector reform program as well as the development of a
micro-finance strategy.
Environmental aspects
10.     The implementation of the reform program is not expected to have any negative
environmental impact. In view of the eventual privatization of the ginning
activities of Cotontchad (scheduled for 2004), an environmental impact assessment of
Cotontchad's nine ginning factories has been completed.
Benefits and risks
11.     Benefits.   Successful implementation of the reform program will result in
better governance including stricter adherence to the rule of law and more
transparent and accountable use of public resources. It will improve the
Government's efficiency and poverty reduction focus in delivering services in the
priority sectors, including health, education, basic infrastructure, and rural
development. It will also complement and enhance the impact of other Bank
interventions, especially the Petroleum Development and Pipeline Project, and its
associated petroleum revenue management program, ongoing and future operations in
the health, education , transport and agriculture sectors, and a proposed community
development project.
Risks. There are substantial risks to the proposed operation.
?       The implementation of the proposed program and related budget depends on
reduction of tensions in the sub-region and rebel activities in some areas of
the country. Should ongoing peace efforts fail to succeed, attention and
resources may be diverted away from the program.
?       Commitment to improving governance has strengthened but remains fragile. To
address this risk, both the current operation, the program supported under the
PRGF, and the HIPC Completion Point triggers continue to focus squarely on
governance and improved public resource management for poverty reduction. SAC
V seeks to strengthen considerably the regulatory framework and procedures
associated with good governance. In addition it emphasizes the empowerment of
the independent institutions that are destined to provide the checks and
balances on the use of public resources. The combination of better procedures
and empowered institutions of restraint will contribute to curtailing the
opportunities for politically motivated diversion of public resources.
?       The cotton reform program touches about 300,000 poor families and its primary
goal is to improve their livelihoods. Given the complexity of the reform
program which is being introduced in a context of depressed world cotton
prices and hardly functioning rural markets, it will be a challenge to ensure
the program's consistency with the stated objective. To overcome this risk, a
study has been carried out to identify the most appropriate scenario for
State's divestiture from Cotontchad, taking into account the difficult
context of the reform. Moreover, an extensive ex-ante and ex-post poverty and
social impact analysis is being completed, the results of which will feed into
the design of the reform program and allow for ex-post adjustments if
necessary. However, the continuing decline in world cotton prices, notably as
a result of subsidies in Part I countries, may affect the viability of Chad's
cotton sector altogether and thus jeopardize the proposed reform program.
-3 -



Contact Point:            The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC, 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Team Leader:     Christine Richaud
Telephone (202) 458 7937
Fax: (202) 473 8466
As a percentage of non-oil GDP, revenue mobilization is projected to have increased
from 8.3 percent in 2001 to 9.0 percent in 2002. Because investment in the oil sector
is largely duty-exempt, this is arguably a better measure of the results of the ongoing
efforts to improve revenue administration.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop
during the week ending January 24, 2002.
-4-



