                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 29087-TD

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-37380)

                                          ON

                                       CREDITS

     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.4 MILLION AND SDR 29.6 MILLION (US $40 MILLION
                                     EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                         CHAD

                                 FOR A FOURTH AND A

             FIFTH STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDITS (SAC IV AND SAC V)




                                     June 24, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM 3)
Africa Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective April 26, 2004)

                          Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                CFAF 1 = US$ 0.00181
                                 US$ 1 = CFAF 552.77

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1     December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APE       Association des Parents d'Elèves (Parents' Association)
ASV       Agents de Santé Villageois (Village-level health providers)
BCA       Bons de Commande Administratifs (Administrative procurement vouchers)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CESRAP    Cellule de Suivi de la Réforme de l'Administration Publique (Monitoring Unit for
          Public Administration Reform)
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFAP      Classification des Fonctions des Administrations Publiques (Functional
          classification of general government)
CID       Circuit Informatisé de la Dépense (Computerized expenditure circuit -CEC)
CPI       Consumer Price Index
CSO       Centre de Sous Ordonnancement (Under-invoicing center)
CTD       Collectivités Territoriales Décentralisées (Decentralized territorial governments)
DAAFM     Direction des Affaires Administratives, Financières et des Matériels (Directorate
          of Administrative, Financial, and Procurement Affairs)
DDEN      Direction Départementale de l'Education Nationale (Departmental Directorate of
          National Education)
DEP       Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (Research and Planning Directorate)
DGMP      Direction Générale des Marchés Publics (Directorate-General of Procurement)
DGT       Direction Générale du Trésor (Directorate-General of the Treasury)
DPVC      Direction de la Protection des Végétaux et Conditionnement (Plant Protection
          and Processing Directorate)
DRA       Délégations Régionales de l'Agriculture (Regional Agricultural Delegations)
FNE       Fonds National de l'Elevage [National Livestock Fund]
GDP       Gross domestic product
GEEP      Projet de Gestion de l'Economie à l'Ere Pétrolière (Project for Management of
          the Economy in the Petroleum Era)
HIPC      Heavily-Indebted Poor Countries
IDA       International Development Association
IMF       International Monetary Fund
INSEED    Institut National de la Statistique, des Etudes Economiques et Démographiques
          (National Institute of Statistics, Economic Research, and Demographics)
ITRAD     Institut Tchadien de Recherche Agricole pour le Développement (Chad Institute
          of Agricultural Research for Development)
LFR       Loi de Finance Rectificative [Supplementary Budget Law]

MASF       Ministère de l'Action Sociale et de la Famille (Ministry of Social Action and
           Family Affairs)
MDD        Ministère Délégué à la Décentralisation (Ministry responsible for
           Decentralization)
MEF        Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MEN        Ministère de l'Education Nationale (Ministry of National Education)
MSP        Ministère de la Santé Publique (Ministry of Public Health)
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
MTPT       Ministère des Travaux Publics et des Transports (Ministry of Public Works and
           Transport)
NGOs       Nongovernmental organizations
NPRS       National Poverty Reduction Strategy
ONDR       Office National de Développement Rural (National Rural Development Office)
PACE       Pan African Program for the Control of Epizootics
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PNE        Projet National de l'Elevage (National Livestock Project)
PROADEL    Programme d'Appui au Développement Local (Local Development Support
           Program)
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSSP       Programme de Sécurisation des Systèmes Pastoraux (Program to Preserve
           Pastureland Systems)
REPIMAT    Réseau d'Épidémio-surveillance des Maladies Animales (Network for the
           Epidemiological Surveillance of Animal Diseases)
SENAREC    Secrétariat National pour le Renforcement des Capacités (National Secretariat
           for Capacity Building)
PETS       Système de Suivi des Dépenses jusqu'à Destination (System for Expenditure
           Tracking to Destination)
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
WHO        World Health Organization



                        Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                      Country Director      Ali M. Khadr
                       Sector Manager       Cadman Atta Mills
                    Task Team Leader        Christine M. Richaud

                                            CHAD
                       Fourth and Fifth Structural Adjustment Credits


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P077781                                                  Project Name: Chad Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit
Team Leader: Christine M. Richaud                                    TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Chad Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-37380
   Country/Department: CHAD                                                                Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (30%); General agriculture,
                            fishing and forestry sector (30%); Health (20%); General education
                            sector (20%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Rural policies and institutions (P); Education for all (S); Health
                            system performance (S); Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/20/2002                                     Effective: 04/08/2003                04/08/2003
     Appraisal: 01/13/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 03/18/2003                                      Closing: 08/31/2003                 08/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF CHAD/MINISTRY OF PLAN; DEVELOPMENT AND
                                           COOPERATION
                      Other Partners:      none

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Ali M. Khadr                                   Ali M. Khadr
Sector Manager:                 Cadman Atta Mills                              Cadman Atta Mills
Team Leader at ICR:             Christine M. Richaud                           Christine M. Richaud
ICR Primary Author:             Christine M. Richaud; John W.
                                Otieno


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. Following the endorsement, by the Board, of the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project, the World Bank has
been provideing support to the Government for improving public resource management, strengthening institutions
for checks and balances, and supporting full participation of key stakeholders in the reforms. With oil resources
expected to come on stream in 2003, it became all the more important to remedy institutional weaknesses that
might otherwise lead to even more corruption and waste of resources. Moreover, Chad's very weak capacity posed a
significant challenge to the design and implementation of reforms aimed at improving public resource
management and fostering economic growth. Hence a strong focus was put by the Government, jointly with the
Bank, on building capacity for public resource management, and program monitoring and implementation.

Objective. This Implementation Completion Report covers both the Fourth and Fifth Structural Adjustment Credits
(SAC IV and SAC V), which were two single-tranche operations approved respectively in December 2001 and
March 2003, aimed at providing support to the launching and implementation of a medium-term reform program.
The objective of SAC IV and SAC V was to assist Chad in launching the implementation of two of the strategic
axes of the country's full PRSP, which was ultimately approved by the Government in June 2003: (i) promote good
governance; and (ii) ensure strong and sustained growth. SAC V was essentially an extension of SAC IV, and was
intended to consolidate policy and institutional development reforms initiated under SAC IV in the key areas of
governance, public resource management and rural development (with particular emphasis on the cotton sub
sector) and further strengthen support for the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (IPRS) and the
subsequent final Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The promotion of good governance and public resource
management formed an important part of the Government's strategy on poverty alleviation, with the objective of
promoting transparency and accountability in public finance management, in anticipation of inflows of oil
revenues expected at that time by the fourth quarter of 2003. This was in line with the completion point triggers
defined under the enhanced HIPC Initiative, and with the Country's Petroleum Revenue Management Law,
adopted by Parliament in 1998, stipulating that all Government revenues from the Doba oil fields would be
integrated into the annual government budget and that resources generated from royalties and dividends would be
spent on development expenditures in key priority sectors, comprising health, education, basic infrastructure and
rural development, including water resources and environment. In addition, the promotion of cotton sector reform
and microfinance was considered as an instrument for reducing rural poverty and eliminating obstacles to
economic growth in Chad. In each of these reform areas, particular attention was given to empowering the
independent institutions that are intended to provide the checks and balances for the efficient management of
resources for poverty reduction ­ the executive, the legislative, and the judiciary, as well as civil society, including
farmers' associations.

It was envisaged that a successful implementation of SAC V would further consolidate achievements realized
under previous adjustment programs, including SAC IV. Concrete benefits expected to accrue to the country and
its populace included the following: a) improved governance and transparency, which would empower the
independent institutions intended to provide the checks and balances for the efficient management of resources for
poverty reduction ­ the executive, the legislative, the judiciary, and civil society, so as to enhance the public
confidence and political stability needed to anchor economic development and minimize wastage of scarce public
resources; b) improved budgeting and public resource management, which would lead to increased focus on
appropriate spending on social and other poverty-focused sectors and programs aimed at achieving the poverty
reduction objective; and c) cotton sector and microfinance reforms, which would strengthen the non-oil sector and
contribute further to poverty alleviation in Chad's rural areas through improved institutional development,
empowerment of farmers, as well as divestiture and privatization of the commercial-oriented segment of the
cotton industry.

3.2 Revised Objective:
As was the case with SAC IV, the objectives underpinning SAC V remained unchanged during the life of the
Credit and continued to be firmly focused on supporting policy and institutional reforms as powerful instruments of
poverty alleviation in Chad.



                                                          - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
The reforms supported by SAC IV and SAC V aimed to achieve poverty reduction by (i) enhanced transparency,
accountability and adherence to the rule of law through the adoption and implementation of a governance strategy
and action plan; (ii) more transparent, accountable and efficient use of public resources for poverty reduction
through three sub-components that included the reform of (a) the budget cycle, (b) public procurement and (c) the
civil service; and (iii) sustainable growth in rural areas through a profound reform of the cotton sector and
improved access to micro-finance. A summary of the various components is presented in Table 1.




                          Table 1. SAC V assisted reform program in support of the PRSP
                                                 Strategic PRSP Axes:
                                               Promote good governance
                                         Ensure strong and sustained growth
            Overall Objective                                    Specific Objective
            Strengthen transparency,          Implement national governance strategy
            accountability,
            the rule of law and participation
                                              Design the legal and institutional framework for
                                              decentralization

                                              Provide independent oversight and control of
                                              petroleum revenues

            Ensure efficient and              Improve preparation, execution and ex-post
            transparent public resource        monitoring, control and audit of the budget
            management towards
            poverty reduction
                                              Make public procurement more efficient and
                                              transparent

                                              Strengthen transparency and accountability of the
                                              civil service

            Promote sustained growth          Strengthen the role of farmers' associations
            in the rural sector
                                              Disengage state from cotton production and review the
                                              industrial structure of cotton sector

                                              Improve access to micro-finance




3.4 Revised Components:
As was the case with SAC IV, there was no revision of the operation' s components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:




                                                            - 3 -

Quality at entry was rated as satisfactory for both SAC IV and SAC V. As regards SAC V, an evaluation was
carried out by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) which also concluded to a satisfactory rating. The quality at
entry of the operations was greatly enhanced by a concise articulation of Program objectives by IDA management
and staff, with an active participation of the borrower and other development partners. These objectives also
reflected, and were broadly consistent with both short-and medium-term development priorities of the Chadian
government as defined in the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the National Governance
Strategy adopted in August 2002, the PRSP that was under preparation, the Letters of Intent discussed with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Government Strategy for cotton sector reform (1999) and the SAC IV and
SAC V Letters of Development Policy. The various objectives defined under SAC IV and SAC V were consistent
with stipulations in various strategy documents, which embraced good governance (through improved
transparency, strengthening of institutions for checks and balances, and decentralization, as well as judicial and
customs reforms), public resource management           (such as budget reforms, civil service reform and public
procurement) and institutional and policy reforms in the cotton sector and in microfinance, as the key components
of the adjustment program. On the Bank's side, a number of strategy documents guided IDA's participation of
SAC IV and SAC V. These included: the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Chad prepared in May 1999 and
discussed by the Board of Directors in April 2000, the HIPC Decision Point Document discussed at the Bank and
IMF Boards in May 2001, and, for SAC V, the back-to-office reports of SAC IV supervision missions that helped
to adjust some prior actions for SAC V negotiations and triggers for future program lending to take into account
the momentum of reforms and new emerging needs (especially in the cotton sector). These documents identified
and elaborated strategic objectives of development interventions to prepare Chad for the oil era in a context of
weak capacity.

Moreover, SAC IV and SAC V was underpinned by significant analytical work, including a Public Expenditure
Review (PER, 2002) and a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR, 2000). The composition of the Bank
team was also adequate.

The hybrid nature of the operations - between a SAC and a Programmatic Adjustment Lending - was considered as
paving the way towards a Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). The objective was to adopt a sequenced,
adaptable and flexible instrument for implementating reforms and monitoring progress, while emphasizing the
continuity of the process in a context of a clear medium-term program. Hence a strong focus was placed under both
SAC IV and SAC V on triggers for next lending operations. Triggers for future program lending were identified in
the SAC IV Board document and constituted prior actions for SAC V negotiations. These actions were partially
revised during the course of SAC V preparation to take into account the momentum of reforms in Chad, and the
need to include some new measures (e.g., on the cotton sector). Preparation of SAC V components coincided with
the supervision of SAC IV. Hence supervision missions provided key inputs into SAC V preparation and allowed
the Bank and the authorities to adjust to and integrate fully the drivers of the reforms.

Like its predecessor, SAC V focused essentially on building processes for improved management of public
resources and strengthening institutions for checks and balances in Chad. Even though some result-based
indicators were identified in the Policy and Action Matrix, expected outcomes were essentially process-oriented.
Although specifying result-based indicators in the course of SAC V preparation might have been preferable, the
approach adopted was consistent with the purpose of SAC V, which was to support the strenghtening of processes
and mechanisms for improved governance, transparency and participation, improved public finance management
and production and marketing in the cotton sector. Results to be achieved were very clearly identified in the SAC
V Program Document, as triggers for future program lending.

Risks and mitigating measures were adequately identified. The implementation of adjustment programs is rarely
problem-free. It was therefore imperative to take into account potential risks associated with the implementation of
SAC V, with a view to providing mitigating or remedial measures. Possible risks associated with this facility were
identified by bank management and staff and included the following: a) political or security threat associated with
prevailing pockets of political discontent in the northern part of the country; b) inadequate resource commitment
by the government in meeting its contribution to the Program due to the relatively narrow taxable and revenue base
in Chad; c) the success of reforms envisaged in the rural sub sector, which was expected to benefit 350,000 poor



                                                         - 4 -

families, was highly contingent upon satisfactory performance in the cotton sector, which was, however, fraught
with uncertainties associated with the declining price trends in the world's cotton export market, as well as with
the distressed financial situation of the State-controlled processing facilities (Cotontchad).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
 The Program's performance, in terms of achievement of objectives and coutcomes envisaged at appraisal, was on
the whole, satisfactory and above average. Progress was especially significant in the reas of governance, public
expenditure management and procurement. The operations contributed to build processes and stengthen
institutions for more transparent and efficient public resource management, including oil resources. However, there
were some mixed results (in terms of timeliness and borrower commitment to the reform levels) in the
implementation of action plans associated with some of the components of the program. Presented below is a
qualitative assessment of progress made in the implementation phase followed by an analysis of major factors that
affected the execution of policy and institutional reforms under SAC IV and V. Outputs achieved as a result of
implementing the various components and sub components of SAC IV and SAC V are depicted in Annex 1 (SAC
V Lograme matrix). The implementation             of SAC IV and SAC V, in a context of limited capacity, was
significantly supported by a IDA-financed project, the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project, which aims
at providing financial and technical assistance as well as capacity-building for implementing the reform program
of the Government in the key areas supported by SAC IV and SAC V. A JSDF grant was also used to finance
support to capacity-building activities for cotton producers.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Governance. The implementation of the governance component of SAC IV and SAC V is rated
satisfactory. Most of the elements of the action plan under this rubric were satisfactorily implemented during SAC
IV and SAC V. Progress under SAC IV and in preparation to SAC V was measured through the satisfactory
completion of key actions, that for the most part represented were triggers for future program lending under SAC
IV and constituted prior actions for negotiating SAC V. These measures are the following:
·         adoption of the National Governance Strategy (including measures with regard to the judiciary,
decentralization, the ethics of public service, public disclosure of information, and audit and control of public
expenditures) by the HCI and organization of a seminar with a wide set of stakeholders to discuss the NGS;
·         satisfactory implementation of the NGS as witnessed by (i) publication of critical reports by the Auditor
General's Office in particular the audit of the signing bonus (www.igf.mef.gouv.td/) (ii) completion of the
operational and financial audit of the customs services and the launching of a survey on users' perception of
customs services ; and (iii) development of an action plan for the definition of a policy on the public disclosure of
information;
·         the Petroleum Revenue Oversight and Control Board (CCSRP) has adopted its rules of procedures (
règlement intérieur) and published its annual report for 2001 as well as its first 2 quarterly reports for 2002 (
http://ccsrp.td ). It has also prepared a first draft of its manual of procedures;
·         preparation of a stakeholder seminar to discuss the implementation of SAC IV, particularly in the areas of
governance. The seminar assessed what worked well, what went wrong, and how lessons could be used in future
programs to enhance transparency, participation , accountability and adherence to the rule of law.

During the course of SAC V implementation, the role of the Oversight Committee on the Management of
Petroleum Resources as a forum through which national consensus was obtained on how to manage the nation's oil
wealth was further strengthened. A participatory Justice Roundtable was held in June 2003 to identify the main
issues affecting the justice system. Transparency and accountability objectives were attained through the
establishment of a system for public information disclosure and the strengthening of the role of the Auditor
General's Office in preparing and disseminating audit reports on the use of petroleum resources. Measures were
also taken to reinforce actions previously initiated to eliminate a potentially corrupt parallel market in the
administration of customs by suppressing the role of informal customs intermediaries popularly known as
bogobogo. Public procurement is another area where malpractices are known to exist. The audit of contracts and
the publication and dissemination of information on public procurement significantly increased transparency in



                                                             - 5 -

this area. Significant progress was also made under SAC V to advance the decentralization objective, which is
intended to increase public access to essential services in the rural areas through decentralization of some
functional and fiscal responsibilities from the central government and line ministries to local governments.

Less satisfactorily, the Government made little progress on putting in place a coordinating unit with appropriate
resources for monitoring the implementation of the National Governance Startegy. Table 2a describes progress
achieved under this component on indicators that were identified in SAC V Program Document as key
achievements that would trigger the negotiations for the next budget support operation.

                        Table 2a - Key action identified in the SAC V Program Document
                                       as a trigger for future program lending




                                                         - 6 -

      Governance component: strengthening transparency,                   Status of implementation
         accountability, the rule of law and participation


 Publication and wide availability of the Government's 2003       Completed
 Budget Law

 Publication on the Auditor General's Office's website of its     Exceeded. The June-December 2002
 report on the audit of the use of HIPC funds between May         report also published
 2001 and May 2002

 Launching of the studies relating to the legal and institutional Exceeded. The studies have been
 framework of the decentralization process :                      finalized
 - Study on the modalities for creating rural communities
 - Study on the training policy for elected representatives and
 for staff in charge of the decentralization process
 - Study on land ownership issues
                                                                  The role and attributions of CCRSP have
 Finalization and publication of the procedural manual of the     been specified in a decree ­ the manual
 College, recruitment of two analysts                             is being finalized on this basis. Three
                                                                  analysts hired

 Adoption and publication of an action plan to further improve    Exceeded. The action plan is under
 customs services, including the reduction of the involvement     implementation. Key achievements
 of third parties in customs operations                           include measures to limit third parties'
                                                                  involvement in customs operations
 Completion and publication on the Auditor General's Office's
 website of its report on the execution of the 2002 Budget Law    Completed

 Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the National      Not completed-Report not prepared
 Governance Strategy as evidenced by a progress report

 Review by the Government (Haut Comité Interministériel) of       Completed with delay
 the first draft of a policy for the public disclosure of
 information

 Finalization of a survey on the users' perception of customs     Survey completed. Draft report to be
 services after validation in a seminar                           validated

 Satisfactory use of the remainder of the Petroleum Agreement     Not completed-Bonus was
 Signing Bonus as confirmed by the College                        reprogrammed in 2004 budget and
                                                                  allocated to the transport sector which
                                                                  has a well-defined spending program


4.2.2. The implementation of the budget cycle sub-compoment under the public resource management
component of SAC IV and SAC V is also rated satisfactory. This rating is attributable to a number of factors.
First, actions undertaken during the implementation of the SAC IV and SA V contributed, to a significant extent,
to strengthening the management of public resources by further advancing measures launched in previous
programs towards that end. Progress under SAC IV and in preparation to SAC V was measured through the
satisfactory completion of key actions, that for the most part represented were triggers for future program lending
under SAC IV and constituted prior actions for negotiating SAC V. These measures are the following:

·         submission to Parliament of the Budget Settlement Law for fiscal year 2000 and the transmission of the
Government's accounts for fiscal year 2001 to the Auditor General's Office;




                                                          - 7 -

·        completion under the direction of the health and education public expenditure committees of the tracking
expenditure study from the central level to the basic health and education facilities, and the preparation of a draft
associated action plan to improve the level of resources reaching the health and education facilities ;
·        introduction of a monthly progress report on the execution of the budget distinguishing between
commitment, order to pay and payment of expenditures, and distinguishing specifically the Ministries of
Education, Health, Public Works, and Justice; the distribution of this report to the four ministries;
·        execution of the non-salary operational budget for the Ministries of Education, Health, and Public Works
at 95 percent on a commitment basis at the end of fiscal year 2001;
·        submission to Parliament of the draft law establishing a mechanism for subsidizing community teachers.

The ultimate outcome of reforms in public financial management would be reflected in the achievement of more
efficient budgeting and resource allocation, as well as a balanced and equitable distribution of resources among
regions and sectors, so as to attack the scourge of poverty on a more comprehensive basis. Much remains to be
done to reach these objectives. Program budgets are still not fully in line with PRSP priorities, budget execution is
slow, especially in priority sectors for poverty reduction, budget monitoring and evaluation are still
under-developed, and there is a need to improve decisively the tracking and arrival of expenditures from the center
to the beneficiaries at the local level. Overall, Table 2b describes progress achieved towards these longer-term
goals during SAC V implementation under this sub-component in relation to indicators that were identified in the
SAC V Program Document as key achievements that would trigger the negotiations for the next budget support
operation. Key achievements included: (i) the preparation of medium-term program budgets in some key priority
ministries for poverty reduction; (ii) the creation of Administrative and Financial Directorates in all ministries to
carry out budget management, procurement and asset management functions, and the beginning of the staffing
process for these Directorates; and (iii) the implementation of an Integrated Computerized Circuit for budget
preparation and execution, including completion of the budget preparation module (which was used to prepare and
computerize the 2004 budget), and significatn progress on the budget execution module.

                       Table 2b - Key action identified in the SAC V Program Document
                                      as a trigger for future program lending




                                                        - 8 -

- 9 -

 Public finance management component: sub-component #1:                     Status of implementation
   improving budget preparation, execution, monitoring and
                            reporting

Presentation in the 2003 Budget documents submitted to Completed
Parliament    of    a   medium-term      macro-economic        and
expenditure framework and medium-term expenditure plans
for the health and education sectors

Launching of the preparation of medium-term expenditure Exceeded. MTEFs have been submitted
plans for the health, education, justice, housing and public to the Finance Commission of
works sectors which will be submitted to Parliament with the Parliament in all priority sectors -
2004 Budget Law; launching of the preparation of public including livestock and agriculture -
expenditure reviews and medium-term expenditure plans in the except justice and environment. PER in
rural development sector (agriculture, livestock, water and agriculture completed.
environment) for submission to Parliament with the 2004
Budget Law

Continued monthly publication of the report on the execution Completed up to December 2003­ albeit
of the budget, distinguishing between commitment, order to with delays every month
pay and payment and distinguishing specifically the Ministries
of Education, Health, Public Works, Housing and Justice

Review of budget execution in priority ministries, including Partially completed. Only a few
investment budget (Title V), every two months, with the meetings have taken place.
Ministry of Finance, the Procurement Directorate, the
Procurement Commission, and donors if necessary, and
preparation of minutes for publication

Production of public procurement plans in priority ministries Not completed in 2003, but on track in
every two months; review during the meetings on budget 2004
execution and preparation of minutes for publication

Effective launching of the training program for all agents in Not completed. Only one firm made a
charge of budget preparation and execution                          bid, but proposal was not satisfactory

Hiring of the required number of qualified staff in the Budget Completed
Directorate, including macroeconomists for the economic
forecasting sub-directorate (sous-direction de la prévision) and
qualified executives for the investment sub-directorate (sous-
direction de l'investissement);

Identification of the needs in terms of qualified staff in the area On track. Administrative and Financial
of budget preparation and procurement in the Ministries of Directorates created in all ministries,
Health, Education, Higher Education, Housing, Public Works, Directors nominated, and staffing under
Justice, Agriculture, Livestock and Water and Environment; way
hiring of required staff or sub-contracting of some activities if
necessary


Finalization and launching of implementation of the action Completed (progress on computerization
plan to improve the arrival of public expenditures to health and of supply management and deliveries in
education facilities.                                               the health sector; manual of procedures
                                                                    for managing deliveries and training of
                                                                    agents in the education sector)




                                                         - 10 -

4.2.3. The implementation of the public procurement sub-component under the public resource management
component of SAC IV and V is rated satisfactory. Public procurement constituted an important sub component
of public resource management and was mainly concerned with the need to put in place the legal framework for
ensuring that public resources are properly utilized for targeted activities and are not diverted to unauthorized
uses. Also, an important objective was to enhance transparency and dissemination of information on the
procurement process, including financial and technical evaluation of bids. Progress under SAC IV and in
preparation to SAC V was measured through the satisfactory completion of key actions, that for the most part
represented were triggers for future program lending under SAC IV and constituted prior actions for negotiating
SAC V. These measures are the following:

·         modification of the articles of the public procurement code referring to the procedure of limited bidding
This procedure provides for bidding by direct invitation without open advertisement. with a view to eliminating
abuse of this procedure;
·         finalization of a draft new Public Procurement Code including independent procurement appeals system;
and the organization of a stakeholder seminar to discuss the draft;
·         completion of an audit of the five biggest procurement contracts for 2001 and the adoption of a
methodology for the annual audit of procurement contracts as well as the procurement system;
·         launching of the recruitment of independent observers for the public procurement bid evaluation boards in
the health and education sectors;
regular publication of a quarterly procurement bulletin.

As regards progress during SAC V implementation, Table 2c describes progress achieved under this component
relative to indicators that were identified in SAC V Program Document as key achievements that would trigger the
negotiations for the next budget support operation. The new Procurement Code, in particular, was adopted by the
Council of Ministers and issued as a Presidential decree in December 2003 (legal opinion in Chad stated that the
Code could not be a law, but a decree).

                        Table 2c - Key action identified in the SAC V Program Document



  Public finance management component: sub-component #2:                   Status of implementation
      Improving the Efficiency and Transparency of Public
                            Procurement

 Submission to Parliament of the new procurement code,                  Completed
 including the texts creating an independent appeals system,
 and preparation of draft implementation decrees

 Improvement and continued regular publication of the                   Completed
 quarterly procurement bulletin, with incorporation of the
 minutes of the monthly meetings on budget execution

 Launching of an audit for the 2002 procurement contracts and           Exceeded. The audit has been
 system                                                                  published




                                                         - 11 -

4.2.4. Civil Service Reform. The implementation of the civil service reform sub-component under the public
resource management component of SAC IV and V is rated unsatisfactory. The efficiency in the delivery of
public services would not be achieved without the support of an effective civil service structure and a well-staffed
public sector. The civil service has a particularly strong role to play in ensuring an efficient dispensation of public
services in key sectors where the role of the private sector remains weak or is virtually non-existent. The main
purpose of the various adjustment programs was to implement to new Civil Service Status Law, reform key
ministries in the civil service by strengthening their poverty orientation focus and enhancing the role, morale and
efficiency of public employees, and enhance transparency and efficiency in the management of the payroll.

Under SAC IV, the main objective was to lay out the conditions for initiating the civil service reform program. Key
actions achieved were the following:

l   promulgation of the new civil service status Law introducing competitive recruitment and merit-based
    advancement;
l   signature of contract with the auditor who will carry out the audit for 9 pilot ministries covering operational,
    procedural and human resources aspects; initially, however, it was anticipated that the audit would be fully
    finalized prior to negotiating SAC V; delays occured in the preparation and launching of the bidding process
    for recruiting the audit company;
l   preparation by the Payroll Department of the Ministry of Economy and Finance of a quantitative overview of
    the salaries and staffing by Ministry.

As regards progress under SAC V, Table 2d below describes progress achieved under this component relative to
indicators that were identified in SAC V Program Document as key achievements that would trigger the
negotiations for the next budget support operation.

                        Table 2d - Key action identified in the SAC V Program Document



  Public finance management component: sub-component #3:                   Status of implementation
 Strengthening the transparency and accountability of the civil
                              service

 Issuance of the implementation decrees relating to the new             Not completed
 civil service status law, including the status for special
 professions,    remuneration      and     missions      and   the
 implementation decrees for performance evaluation, training
 and recruitment

 Adoption of methodology for the audit of the nine pilot                Exceeded. The audit has been
 ministries covering organizational, procedural and human               finalized and action plan has been
 aspects, and collection of basic data and documentation                prepared

 Final update of the payroll based on the update of the 2000
 census of civil servants and the list of all personnel included in     Not completed. The census is
 the payroll; monthly update and quarterly review of this list by       outdated.
 Ministry (December 2002, March 2003, June 2003)



This lack of significant achievements has several causes, which have been thoroughly analyzed during the course
of SAC V. Key factors include:
         (i) Inadequate prioritization of activities under the reform program (census of civil servants and building
         up of the civil service file prior to identifying a mechanism to manage and update the administrative and
         financial information on a regular basis; focus on performance evaluation tools in the absence of clear job
         descriptions; etc.). This situation is largely due to the two-years delay for completing the audit of key
         ministries, which was initially expected to constitute the starting point of the reform by providing an



                                                          - 12 -

          assessment of the staffing needs, organizational settings and management procedures required for
          improving transparency and efficiency in civil service management and delivery of public services.

          (ii) Reluctance on the part of certain stakeholders to implement some components of the reform program.
          As an illustration, several draft implementation decrees (missions, family allowances, etc.) have not been
          approved by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which feared that these new provisions could lead to
          an unacceptable increase in the payroll. This situation calls for a proper assessment of the positive and
          negative impact of the reform on the payroll, which has not been done. Until now, the implementation of
          the reform program has essentially been assigned to the civil service reform agency, CESRAP, without
          clear leadership at the decision-making level for bringing on board other important stakeholders who have
          an important role to play in the success of the program (Ministry of Economy and Finance, including
          Payroll Directorate, technical ministries, other Directorates of the Ministry of Civil Service, etc). As a
          result, there has been an unbalanced focus on technical measures (tools for performance evaluation,
          computerized system, etc.).

          (iii) Although progress has been made at the level of CESRAP to build the tools for implementation the
          reform program (performance evaluation system, civil service file, computerized system for managing the
          administrative and financial situation of civil servants, etc), further progress has been constrained by the
          weak capacities that exist at CESRAP and in the Ministry of Civil Service in general. A similar bottleneck
          exists in the Payroll Directorate, which needs capacity building and support, and in the technical
          ministries. This calls for a vigorous effort in terms of capacity building. This could constitute a central
          point of focus under the next program of capacity-building activities under preparation.


42.5. The implementation of the rural development component under SAC IV and SAC V was mixed, but is
overall rated as unsatisfactory. However the overall rating was driven by the progress in the implementation of
the cotton component of the reform, and marks significant variations in implementation progress accross
sub-components.

The microfinance component was implemented in a highly satisfactory manner: the institutional framework and
regulations are now in place for microfinance institutions in Chad; the profession has succeeded in organizing
itself into an effective association of microfinance institutions. Despite this satisfactory result, the implementation
of the cotton sector component was less successful. The driving force behind the introduction of this component
into the program design was to ensure that the non-oil sector was not neglected and that it features prominently in
the country's development agenda. This segment of the rural economy was strengthened under SAC V through
continued implementation of far-reaching policy and institutional reforms initiated under SAC IV.

With the support of SAC IV and V, Chad did nevertheless make some progress in its cotton sector reforms, despite
the extremely adverse impact of the very low world cotton prices in 2001/02 on the financial position of
Cotontchad, in large part due to the highly distortionary impact of agricultural subsidies in Part I countries.

Under the first pillar, the reform strategy consisted of:
·         strengthening the institutional and organizational capacities of farmer associations;
·         improving farmers' access to information
·         improving farmers' access to input and management services; and
·         ensuring farmers' participation in the design and monitoring of the state's withdrawal from the cotton
sector.

Under the second pillar, the reform strategy consisted of:
·         legal separation of the oil and soap division (DHS) and later privatization of an autonomous oil and soap
enterprise;
·         the evaluation of alternative scenarios for privatization of Cotontchad;
·         an ex-ante poverty and social impact analysis of privatization scenarios;




                                                         - 13 -

·        broad participation through a farmers and an investors forum with respect to privatization;
·        adoption and implementation of final privatization scenario; and
·        ex-post monitoring of impact of reforms.

With regard to the first pillar, achievements under SAC IV and SAC V included empowerement of cotton farmers
through :
·        the creation of 9 Comités de Concertation Locaux (CCLs) through elections in 5,000 cotton zone villages
and their legal recognition;
·        establishment of a Comité Paritaire in which CCLs and Cotontchad participate equally for the
determination of producers prices on the basis of a formula that          links domestic prices to the fiber-equivalent
world cotton price;
·        approval of a diagnostic of the institutional capacities of the CCLs;
·        baseline survey of the status of market information among farmers;
·        operationalization of a market information system for farmers;
·        draft of ex-ante poverty and social impact analysis.

In addition to the above, a capacity-building program to strengthen farmer associations has been launched.

With regard to the second pillar, progress was somewhat limited by the world outlook for cotton prices and the
financial difficulties of Cotontchad. Nonetheless, achievements were:
·        completion of a technical and financial audit of Cotontchad and adoption of an action plan and
recruitment of a controller to assist in implementing the action          plan;
·        privatization of the oil and soap division from Cotontchad. This action, initially anticipated as a SAC IV
objective, was achieved during SAC V implementation;
·        completion of analysis of alternative scenarios for privatization of Cotontchad.
·        completion of first stage of ex-ante poverty and social impact analysis. This action was similarly
programmed to be achieved during SAC IV, but took longer than             initially anticipated and was completed
under SAC V.

Further progress was also made under SAC V to implement action plans on divestiture of public sector
involvement in cotton production and privatization of commercial activities of Cotontchad, the main public
enterprise with virtual monopoly power over the cotton industry. The Oil and Soap Factory was pivatized in June
2003. Following the completion of a rural household survey, another important development under SAC V was the
reinforcement and institutionalization of poverty and social impact analysis as an instrument for evaluating the
impact of rural sector reforms on the well-being of rural communities. Table 2e below describes progress achieved
under this component relative to indicators that were identified in SAC V Program Document as key achievements
that would trigger the negotiations for the next budget support operation. Despite significant achievements, overall
progress on the implementation of the privatization process was very slow. The strategic road map for moving
forward with the liberalization of the sector remains unclear despite the completion of the scenario study, and there
is no clear consensus among key stakeholders on the appropriate timetable and accompanying measures. This calls
for decisive decisions to be made by the Government, and a more in-depth assessment of the costs and benefits of
each envisageable scenario and required accompanying measures. Moreover, mesures adopted to start addressing
the difficult financial situation of Cotontchad were not implemented due to delays in actually securing expected
financial contributions from the Government and partners.

                         Table 2e- Key action identified in the SAC V Program Document




                                                         - 14 -

  Rural development component: Promote sustained growth in                Status of implementation
       the rural sector by strengthening the cotton farmers
      organizations, and disengaging the state from cotton
                           production:

 Adoption of an action plan for the institutional strengthening       Completed
 of cotton farmers organizations (CCL)

 Full implementation of the cost-cutting measures for the            Not completed because of delays in
 operation of Cotontchad                                             securing financial resources

 Preparation of the investors' forum and farmers' forum to           Not completed
 discuss the scenarios for the privatization of Cotontchad and
 the poverty and social impact of the reforms in the cotton
 sector




4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:
SAC IV and SAC V focused on strenghtening institutions and processes for improved governance and
transparency, more efficient and transparent public expenditure management, and ability of cotton farmers to better
participate in and benefit from cotton production and marketing. As such, the program supported by SAC IV and
V was highly successful in reinforcing institutions for checks and balances, in preparation for the oil era, notably
oversight institutions for public finance management (Petroleum Revenue Oversight and Control Board, Chamber
of Accounts, General Finance Inspectorate, etc.). A key achievement under the program was also its impact on
ministries in the area of public finance management, with the creation and implementation of Administrative and
Financial Directorates in each ministry in early 2003, and the strengthening of processes for better public resource
management (annual public expenditure review process, program budgeting process, etc.). A key achievement was
also the implementation of the Integrated Computerized Circuit to monitor budget preparation and execution - the
budget execution module being in its final stage of implementation. The program supported by SAC IV and SAC
V was also instrumental in putting in place the conditions for better information and participation of cotton
producers' associations (election of representatives, dissemination of market information, etc.). As a result, the
institutional development impact of SAC IV and V is considered substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. Numerous factors outside the direct influence of the Government of Chad may have affected, in an adverse
manner, the implementation of the extensive reform programs undertaken since the initial adjustment assistance
for the country was approved five years ago.

5.12. Chad has been traditionally a politically fragile society and features among the few African countries that
have suffered most from bouts of violence. Although the country has enjoyed relative peace and political stability
since the early 1990s, there are still simmering fears of instability as pockets of resistance and potential violence
persist in the northern parts of the country, as well as in the area borderinf Sudan's Darfour province and, for a
time, along the southern boarder with Central African Republic. Overall, the threat to political stability has not



                                                         - 15 -

been entirely eliminated--Chad has a long history of rebellions, and some neighboring countries, such as the
Central African Republic and Sudan, face recurrent instability. Chad is facing a difficult humanitarian and
political situation in the Eastern part of the country, where an estimated 110,000 refugees from Sudan have settled
in camps, fleeing the combats between the Sudanese army and rebel groups in the Sudanese region of Darfour
since February 2003. Further, by raising the potential stakes associated with political power, oil revenues risk
making the maintenance of political stability even more of a challenge. In this context, the implementation of the
reform program has been affected in several ways: (i) there have been pockets of resistance against the governance
and civil service reform agendas which, in such a context, required vigorous efforts on the part of the Government
to build consensus. These reforms could be considered as a potential threat to social stability. This potential threat
may have slowed down or even halted the reform process ; (ii) there has been a shift in the implementation of
poverty-reduction priorities, as illustrated by the slow execution of the budget in priority sectors and the increase in
expenditures in the defense sector.

5.1.3. On the economic front, the greatest factor has been the continued deterioration in the world commodity price
of cotton. Until recently, trends in the international export price for cotton have generally been unfavorable and
have adversely affected cotton production by providing fewer incentives to small holders who dominate cotton
production in Chad. This situation has negatively affected the financial situation of Cotontchad, which has been
facing high inefficiencies partly linked to the underuse of ginnery capacity. This has also affected the relationship
between Cotontchad, cotton farmers and cotton associations, thus making it more difficult to build consensus
around the program of reforms.

5.1.4. Financial constraints outside the control of authorities also have had the potential to affect adversely the
execution of reform agendas such as those enunciated in adjustment programs. In some instances, for reasons that
are only partially outside governement control, delays in the provision of donors' support has generated financial
tensions which have led to some shifts in priorities and slowed down the implementation of reforms.

5.1.5. In the implementation of the reform agenda, delays have been encountered recurrently because of the weak
capacity that exists in key agencies and line ministries, as a legacy of thirty years of civil war. The design of the
reform program in the area of public finance management (program budgeting, etc.) was perhaps in some areas too
ambitious in that respect.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Since SAC V was essentially an extension of SAC IV, numerous factors within the direct control of the
Government of Chad continued to be critical in the successful implementation of the various components of the
reform program. For the program under consideration, as in all four previous programs (SAC I-IV), far-reaching
reform measures were only possible with the active support of the government of the day. Since the government is
the most powerful vehicle for implementing reforms, the strong commitment demonstrated by Chadian authorities
in seeking the assistance of the international community and the Bank Group in particular, helped greatly in
advancing the country's reform agenda in the area of transparency, strengthening of oversight and control
institutions, audit publications, and public finance management (especially budget preparation).

5.2.2. While authorities took positive measures in many respects, there are areas where implementation tended to
be weak due to the Government's half-hearted commitment to reforms and lack of strong political leadership. In
the area of public procurement, much remains to be done to implement effectively the new Procurement Code
signed in December 2003. Moreover, the new Civil Service Status Law is not yet effective, thus delaying the
introduction of competitive recruitment and merit-based advancement, due to strong pockets of resistance to the
reform program and lack of ownership. Similarly, in the cotton sector, the Government has not demonstrated a
strong willingness to take key decisions to address the financial situation of Cotontchad and move forward with the
privatization program. In addition, the Government was in several instances reluctant (or unable) to finance some
operational recurrent expenditures relating to program implementation from domestic resources, which made some
components of the program entirely dependent on donors' support (especially in the case of civil service reform),
and thus generated delays.




                                                         - 16 -

5.2.3. Weak capacity, although somewhat beyond governement control, must also be attributed in part to the
reluctance of some key Government officials to implement the civil service reform agenda and put in place
competitive recruitement and merit-based promotion. This contributes to the persistence of inadequate skills and
lack of motivation at the technical level in many ministries and key institutions. In the area of public resource
management and procurement, more remains to be do be done in building analytical capacities for budget
preparation, execution, monitoring and social expenditure tracking.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1. For relatively extensive and multi-faceted reform programs, such as those undertaken under SAC IV and
SAC V, the need for and significance of effective coordination and implementation agencies for successful
program implementation cannot be overemphasized. Implementation experience under both reform programs
underline the importance of providing for an effective coordination mechanism at the program design stage. In this
connection, a distinction should be made between policy- and technical-oriented agencies. Policy-oriented agencies
are those whose main function involves securing the political support of a cross-section of society in the
implementation of reform agendas. In the case of Chad, the High-Level Interministerial Committee (Haut Comite
Interministerial-HCI), chaired by the Prime Minister and including representatives of all segments of Chadian
Government, played a vital role in the mobilization of political support and national consensus needed to move
ahead with reform agenda envisaged under the various adjustment programs. The Poverty Reduction Strategy
Steering Committee was also an important agency responsible for spearheading dialogue and crystallizing national
consensus on policies and strategies to combat poverty in Chad.

5.3.2. At the technical level, there were various agencies (CESRAP, DGMP, SENAREC, CTRC, CCSRP, Cellule
GEEP Finances, Chamber of Accounts, etc.) with responsibilities relating to the execution of the reform agenda
and strategic objectives agreed upon between the Bank Group and the borrower, under the leadership of the Cellule
Economique of the Ministry of Plan, Development and Cooperation. These agencies in general demonstrated
strong commitment to the implementation of the reform agenda, which resulted in significant achievements,
especially with respect to budget management and strengthening of oversight institutions. In other instance
however, these agencies lacked the necessary capacity and means, as well as political support, to make a significant
contribution on the ground (CESRAP, SENAREC, CTRC).

5.3.3. The main implementation agency, Cellule Economique, has been effective in gathering all key stakeholders
and leading discussions on program implementation during preparation and supervision missions. It has also been
instrumental in establishing an effective relationship between the political level (HCI) and the technical level,
which was key for the success of the program. However, day-to-day monitoring and coordination between the
numerous stakeholders and agencies involved, as well as reporting, was not fully satisfactory, which contributed to
delays in program implementation and, in some instances, to late identification of bottlenecks that could have been
lifted earlier by encouraging dialogue between stakeholders (in particular as regards the civil service reform
program).

5.4 Costs and financing:
Under the terms of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the various program components were expected to
benefit from a one-time disbursement equivalent to the amount of the IDA-approved credit, in the sum of SDR 31.4
million and 29.6 million respectively for SAC IV and SAC V (US$ 40.0 million equivalent). Disbursement took
place upon effectiveness of the DCA.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1. The sustainability of activities supported under SAC IV and SAC V is rated as likely. The key factor
underlying sustainability is the ability to sustain the various outcomes or results arising from the implementation of
the program during the post-implementation phase and beyond. For a multi-faceted program such as SAC IV-V,
the main test of sustainability is the extent to which each program component is able to withstand the test of time
and whether implemented reforms survive the numerous challenges likely to face the Chadian economy in the
medium to long term. Given the degree of Government commitment to most components of the reforms, their



                                                          - 17 -

presence at the core of PRSP priorities for the future, and the willingness of the donor community to continue
assisting Chad, it is likely that the various policy and institutional reforms being put in place under the program
have solidly taken root into the Chadian economy and can serve as crucial foundations for further macroeconomic
and sectoral development in the country.

6.1.2. Moreover, emphasis on transparency and frank dialogue on governance issues, notably through the
publication of audits and reports on public finance management, contribued to creating a demand for increased
openness in line ministries and civil society, which is likely to be maintained. This is a very significant
achievement, that can be linked to the expectations attached to the Petroleum Revenue Management Program, and
Chad's visibility in this area.

6.1.3. Finally, the start of oil production and assistance under the HIPC initiative, which generate additional
resources needed to finance part of the reform program in priority sectors, will contribute to easing the financial
constraint on program implementation. As a complement, the Government has requested Bank assistance for
pursuing the reform agenda through an Institutional Reform Support Credit, currently under preparation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
SAC V, like its predecessor, focused on strengthening and enhancing existing institutions and processes. Hence no
transition to regular operations is needed.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The preparation of SAC V was an evolutionary process. Since it was
preceded by a similar credit, the preparation of this program benefited from lessons learned from SAC IV, at
design and implementation stages. The program was well-rooted in the country's own strategic priorities (PRSP,
National Governance Strategy, Cotton Sector Reform Program), and fully in line with CAS objectives. The Bank's
ongoing analytical work in Chad provided a good understanding of the issues relating to the country's
macroeconomic situation and public expenditure management issues. Several preparatory missions, coinciding
with SAC IV supervision missions, contributed to work close and effectively partnership with the authorities on the
design of the program. The Bank team composition was appropriate. Moreover, transition between the team
leaders in the early stages of preparation was smooth. The team also deliberately chose to delay Board presentation
of the two credits so as to ensure that key steps, identified as prior actions for negotiations, be achieved under the
reform program before moving forward.

Last but not least, the Bank Group's continued presence in Chad and the full involvment of the Country Manager
and staff based in N'Djamena provided a better understanding of the environment in which program lending under
SAC V and previous programs were being implemented. In this connection, Bank staff were able to identify the
various capacity and institutional constraints to smooth program implementation and enabled a strong link to be
established between program design under SAC V and related actions undertaken under the Management of the
Petroleum Economy Project and under Trust Fund financing, so as to build institutional and human resource
capacities required for an effective execution of action plans under various components of the Program.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. Supervision under SAC IV and V was closely associated with critical
stages of implementation of various program components following the declaration of credit effectiveness.
Assistance and support were mobilized as needed during program implementation, in close coordination with the
work undertaken on other Bank activities in Chad. Supervision missions associated systematically all stakeholders
in Chad and other donors for better program monitoring and coordination. Videoconferences took place regularly
to monitor progress and discuss issues on program implementation between missions. The role of the Country
Office was also instrumental in liaising with the authorities and maintaining a constant dialogue on the reform
program. Program supervision was greatly facilitated by the adoption of mutually agreed detailed matrices for the
implementation of various measures envisaged under each component of the program. These matrices provided the



                                                          - 18 -

blueprint as well as the benchmarks against which an assessment of program performance in terms of its various
components could be undertaken. Resources committed by the Bank in carrying out the supervision function under
SAC V are presented in Annex 4.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance in the implementation of SAC IV and V has been evaluated from the standpoint
of perceptions that recipients or beneficiaries of the IDA-financed program have regarding the various components
of the program. In addition, an objective evaluation of whether or not the outcomes and results anticipated at
appraisal have been achieved forms the basis of this assessment. This performance evaluation also takes into
account specific program-related factors, such as the timeliness of implementation. Taking all these factors into
account the overall Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's preparation is rated satisfactory. The borrower was significantly involved, in varying degrees, in the
design and implementation of SAC IV and V at various stages of the process. There are a number of factors that
contributed significantly to shaping the borrower's role in the design and execution of structural adjustment
programs, especially SAC IV and SAC V. First, the borrower's experience with previous adjustment programs
provided the platform for its more active and effective participation in the preparation, design and implementation
of SAC V. Second, the Government had already set in motion a process for building and securing national
consensus on the country's long-term development goals and strategies by initiating work leading to the adoption
of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (IPRSP), the full PRSP and the National Governance Strategy, all of
which laid the conceptual foundations for far-reaching policy and institutional reforms in Chad. Third, following
the successful implementation of SAC IV and previous programs, the government was encouraged to pursue the
various reforms initiated under previous programs that needed further strengthening and consolidation in the key
areas of governance, public resource management and rural development. However, program design would have
benefited from better coordination between, and stronger involvement of, key players at the decision-making level,
especially under the civil service and cotton sector reform components.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The borrower's performance under SAC IV and V was mixed, but with satisfactory results outweighing less
satisfactory results. Program implementation on the civil service and cotton sector reform components was
unsatisfactory. Although this outcome is partially due to exogeneous factors, program implementation would have
greatly benefited from stronger leadership and more forceful commitment to the program at the decision-making
level. In the areas where the Government demonstrated strong commitment to the reform, progress was in line or
beyond expectations. Progress on triggers identified in SAC V Program Document as benchmarks for future
program lending, indicate that, on balance, performance was nevertheless satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Cellule Economique as an implementing agency was mixed, but on balance
satisfactory. The Cellule was instrumental in facilitating and leading the discussions on program preparation and
implementation with all stakeholders, including donors, during Bank missions, through plenary meetings in its
building. Between missions, however, the Cellule did not systematically provide the coordination and leadership
that were needed, as well as regular reports on program implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Three key lessons can be drawn:

1. Importance of borrower empowerment, leadership, effective coordinating role and strong commitment to the
reform.



                                                         - 19 -

Successful implementation of the reform program was closely associated with strong Government commitment to
the reform program, and the provision of effective leadership by the Government and high-ranking officials,
notably the High Interministerial Committee, Ministers and General Secretaries, and the Presidency. Achievements
by technical staffs was considerable under most components, but translation of these achievements into concrete
and sustainable results was achieved mainly where such leadership and commitment could be mobilized effectively
to overcome the difficulties associated with the reform program (transparency and strengthening of oversight
institutions, public expenditure management, preparation of the public procurement code, etc.). As an illustration,
a key achievement over the period of SAC V was the implementation of detailed modalities for transferring,
saving, managing and controlling oil revenues, with the support of SAC V (governance and public finance
components), the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project, and the International Monetary Fund. Strong
Government ownership for the Petroleum Revenue Management Program was key for such success. Conversely, in
areas of complex, more sensitive reforms (civil service reform, cotton sector reform), more forceful and concerted
leadership, and better coordination among all stakeholders, would probably have helped in program
implementation. As a result, in preparation for the following operation, it was decided, jointly with the authorities,
that a Civil Service Reform Committee gathering all stakeholders (including line ministries), would be made
operational. Moreover, the reform program in each component will be reviewed, validated and adopted by the
Technical Committee, then the High Interministerial Committee, to ensure full participation and awareness at the
highest level.

Overall, it seemed important to the Bank team to contribute to better empowerement of the Government and civil
servants, by avoiding a multiplicity of diagnostic work and action plans that was prone to generating confusion, by
seeking complementarity between Bank activities in Chad, and by coordinating with other donors. Additional
efforts are needed in this area.

Finally, it seemed also essential to reinforce Government's involvement and accountability, notably by insisting
that all recurrent/operational expenditures (and when feasible, investment expenditures) associated with the reform
program should be financed by Government's own revenue, and not by parallel projects. This appears to be an
important requirement for the next budget support operation.

2. Importance of providing support through parallel capacity building operations in a context of weak
capacities.
The program supported by SAC IV and V was ambitious and complex, in a context of weak capacity and a difficult
political and social environment. Overall, even if performance has been mixed in some areas of the reform
program, it is satisfactory on balance. This result could not have been achieved without the support for
capacity-building provided through parallel operations, notably the Management of the Petroleum Economy Project
and other technical assistance/ capacity-building activities. As a result, it is envisaged that program
implementation under the next operation will also be supported through capacity-building activities and technical
assistance provided by the Bank, the European Union, UNDP and France.

3. Adequacy of the SAC instrument. SAC V supported the second phase of a three-stage reform program, initiated
in 2001 by the Government with the support of SAC IV. The Institutional Reform Support Credit (IRSC) under
preparation will provide financing for the implementation of the third stage of this program. This series of
one-tranche operations (SAC IV and SAC) proved effective in the context of Chad, as compared to
multiple-tranche operations, as they provided a satisfactory compromise between continuity and flexibility, in a
country where it is important to identify and adjust to the drivers of reforms. It should be underlined however that
this series of single-tranche operations was only possible because of the availability of IDA resources and the
possibility of preparing an operation every year. The rolling matrices which detailed the measures to be
implemented under each component of the program formed a useful tool for monitoring progress and preparing the
next operation. The coincidence between SAC IV (then SAC V) supervision and SAC V (then IRSC) preparatory
missions were instrumental in providing adequate input to project preparation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                                                         - 20 -

The Government provided an assessment of program design and implementation, which emphasized the
achievements under the governance, public expenditure management and procurement components, and
underlined delays encountered in the implementation of the civil service and cotton sector reforms.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR        Actual/Latest Estimate
Strengthen Transparency, Accountability, the S                              S
Rule of Law and Participation
Ensure Efficient and Transparent Public        S                            S
Resource Management with a View to
Poverty Reduction
Ensure Strong and Sustained Economic           U                            U
Growth through a Reform of the Cotton
Sector and Promotion of Microfinance




Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR        Actual/Latest Estimate
Implement national governance strategy:        S                            S

- Implement action plan to improve customs
services
- Organize Etats Généraux de la Justice
- Publish audit reports, Budget Law, Budget
Settlement Law, Auditor General's reports
Design the legal and institutional framework   S                            S
for decentralization:
- Complete studies on the legal and
institutional framework for decentralization
Provide independent oversight and control of S                              S
petroleum revenues:
- Publish CCSRP quarterly and annual
reports
- Adopt procedures manual for CCSRP
Improve preparation, execution and ex-post     S                            S
monitoring, control and audit of the
budget:
- Present medium term expenditure programs
in health and education in 2003 Budget Law,
extend to justice, public works, housing and
rural development sectors for 2004 Budget
Law
- Improve preparation and monitoring of
investment budget
- Complete phase I of computerized
expenditure circuit, disseminate monthly
budget execution report
- Improve efficiency in budget execution in
priority sectors
- Disseminate monthly procurement plans in
priority sectors
- Launch the Integrated Financial
Management Information System
- Issue and publish Auditor General's report
on execution ofthe budget and Budget
Settlement Law
- Strengthen role of the General Finance
Inspection and Auditor General's Office
- Complete second annual Public
Expenditure Review and launch third one
- Trace expenditures from the center to
facilities in basic services, implement action
plan to improve the level of resources
reaching the facilities.




                                                         - 22 -

- Adopt mechanism to pay community
teachers
Make public procurement more efficient and    S              S
transparent:
- Adopt new legal and regulatory framework,
including a mechanism for dispute settlement
- Publish a quarterly public procurement
bulletin
- Publish annual audit public procurement
contracts
- Independent observers in procurement
commissions for health and education
Strengthen transparency and accountability    S              U
of the civil service:
- Complete new legal and regulatory
framework by issuing all implementation
decrees
- Implement effective competitive recruitment
and merit-based promotion
- Reorganize priority ministries, reinforce
poverty reduction objective
- Computerize civil service file and payroll
Strengthen the role of farmers' associations: S              S
- Develop institutional and organizational
capacities of cotton farmers' associations
- Improve farmers' access to information
- Improve farmers' access to inputs and
management services
Disengage state from cotton production and    U              U
review the industrial structure of cotton
sector:
- Privatize Cotontchad's oil and soap division
- Launch privatization of Cotontchad and
review the industrial structure of the cotton
sector
- Conduct ex-ante and ex-post poverty and
social impact analysis of the reform of the
sector
Improve access to                             S              S
micro-finance:
- Adopt micro-finance regulatory framework

1End of project




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
                                                            40.00           40.00              100


Total Baseline Cost                                         40.00           40.00
                        Total Project Costs                 40.00
                  Total Financing Required                  40.00           40.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
                                                - 24 -

      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                          No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                               (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                     Month/Year      Count               Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 SAC V
 Identification/Preparation                       3    Economists                             S               S
 (corresponding to SAC IV
 supervision)
                May 2002
                                                  1    Country Manager
                                                  1    Human Development Specialist
                                                  2    Cotton sector specialists
                                                  1    Governance expert

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                January 2003                      2    Economists
                                                  1    Country Manager
                                                  1    Country Lawyer

 Supervision
                April 2003                        3    Economists                             S               S
                July 2003                         1    Cotton Sector Specialist               S               S
                [October 2003]                    1    Governance Specialist                  S               S
                                                  2    Decentralization experts
                                                  1    Public Finance Specialist
                                                  1    Country Manager

 ICR
                April 2004                        2     Economists                            S               S
                (and Cotton                       1     Public Finance Specialist
                Mission)
                                                  1     Cotton Sector Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  SAC V
  Identification/Preparation
  (corresponding to SAC IV
  supervision)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                             43.7                        99,485.6
  Supervision                                       15.9                        27,005.0
  ICR                                                2.0                         6,307.2
  Total                                             61.6                        132,797.8
In addition to this amount, the following costs have been incurred for SAC IV preparation:
No. Staff weeks: 58.4
US$ ('000): 171, 704.7




                                                        - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 30 -

- 31 -

