Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3738 CD  
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 20, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3738 CD 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 20, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
January 24, 2003 (hereinafter called the Letter of Development Policy), describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of 
the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
WHEREAS on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in a single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is 
made.”; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“CCSRP” means the Borrower’s Petroleum Revenue Oversight and 
Control Board, established pursuant to Law No. 001/PR/99 and consisting of 
representatives of the Borrower’s public institutions, NGOs (as hereinafter defined) and 
civil society; 
 
(b) “Cotontchad” 
means 
Société Cotonnière du Tchad
,
a
company 
established under the Borr
ower’s laws and regulations and operating pursuant to its by-
laws dated December 17, 1999; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(d) 
“Euro” means the lawful common currency of member states of the 
European Union who adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
establishing the European Currency, as amended to date by the Treaty on European 
Union; 
 
(e) “HCI” 
means 
Haut Comité Interministériel
,
the Borrower’s High Inter-
ministerial Committee, the appointed task force responsible for overseeing the 
implementation of the Program;  
 
(f) “HS” 
means 
Huilerie et Savonnerie, 
a
company established under the 
Borrower’s laws and regulations and operating pursuant to its by-laws dated November 
27, 2001; 
 
(g) “MFE” 
means 
Mini
stère de l’Economie et des Finances
,
the Borrower’s 
ministry responsible for economy and finance; 
 
(h) 
“NGO” means a non governmental organization established and 
operating pursuant to the Laws of the Borrower;  
 
(i) 
“SAC IV Program” means the program of actions, objectives and 
policies of the Borrower as defined in Whereas (A) of the Development Credit 
Agreement dated December 20, 2001 between the Borrower and the Association, for the 
Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC IV); and 
 
(j) “SNBG” 
means 
Stratégie Nationale de Bonne Gouvernance
,
the 
Borrower’s National Strategy for Good Governance, adopted by HCI on August 28, 
2002. 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty nine million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 29,600,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
Page  5
-
4
-
bank, a deposit account in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter, pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set 
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2013 and ending March 15, 2043. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years  the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
Page  7
-
6
-
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination  
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for planning, 
development and cooperation is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Planning, Development 
and Cooperation  
 
B.P. 286 
 
N’Djamena 
 
Republic of Chad 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
5329
KD 
 
(235) 51 51 85 
 
(235) 52 00 87 
 
(235) 52 29 50 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Abdoulaye 
Beri 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
/s/ Ali M. Khadr                  
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party);  
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1.  
Governance
In accordance with paragraph 27 of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Borrower has furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that the following actions 
have been carried out: 
 
(a) 
Preparation of a stakeholder seminar to discuss the implementation of the 
SAC IV Program; 
 
(b) 
adoption of the SNBG  by HCI and its discussion at a seminar with a 
wide set of stakeholders;   
 
(c) 
satisfactory implementation of the SNGB as witnessed by: (i) the 
publication of critical reports by the Account Chamber (
Chambre des Comptes
)
of the 
Supreme Court; (ii) completion of the operational and financial audit of the customs 
services and launching of a survey on users’ perception of customs services; and (iii) 
development of an action plan for the definition of a policy on the public disclosure of 
information; and 
 
(d) 
adoption of its rules of procedures (
règlement intérieur
)
by
CCSRP, 
publication of its annual report for 2001 as well as its first two quarterly reports for 2002, 
and preparation of the first draft of its manual of procedures.
 
2. 
Public Resource Management
In accordance with paragraphs 30, 33 and 36, respectively, of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Borrower has furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence 
that the following actions have been carried out: 
 
(a) 
Improving Preparation, Execution, Control, Monitoring and Audit of the 
Government Budget
(i) 
Execution of the non-salary operational budget for the Ministries 
of Education, Health and Public Works  at 95 percent on a 
commitment basis at the end of fiscal year 2001; 
 
(ii) 
completion under the direction of the Health and Education 
Public Expenditure Committees of the study to track 
expenditures from the central level to the basic health and 
education facilities, and preparation of the draft of an associated 
Page  13
-
12 - 
action plan to improve the level of resources reaching the health 
and education facilities ;  
 
(iii) 
submission to Parliament of the Budget Settlement Law for 
fiscal year 2000 and transmission of the administrative and 
management  accounts (
comptes administratifs et de gestion
)
for 
fiscal year 2001 to the Account Chamber (
Chambre des 
Comptes
)
of
the Supreme Court;  
 
(iv) 
introduction of a monthly report on the execution of the budget 
distinguishing between commitment, order to pay and payment 
of expenditures, and distinguishing specifically the Ministries of 
Education, Health, Public Works and Justice; distribution of this 
report to the four Ministries; and 
 
(v) 
submission to Parliament  of the draft law establishing a 
mechanism for paying a subsidy to community teachers. 
 
(b) 
Improving the Efficiency and Transparency of Public Procurement
(i) 
Modification of the articles of the Public Procurement Code 
referring to the procedure of limited bidding with a view to 
eliminating abuse of this procedure; 
 
(ii) 
finalization of a draft new Public Procurement Code including an 
independent procurement appeals system; and organization of a 
stakeholder seminar to discuss the draft Code; 
 
(iii) 
regular publication of a quarterly procurement bulletin;  
 
(iv) 
completion of an audit of the five biggest procurement contracts 
for 2001 and adoption of a methodology for the annual audit of 
procurement contracts as well as the procurement system; and 
 
(vi) 
launching of the recruitment of independent observers for the 
public procurement bid evaluation boards in the health and 
education sectors.  
 
(c) 
Strengthening the Transparency and Accountability of the Civil Service
(i) 
Promulgation of the new civil service status law introducing 
competitive recruitment and merit-based advancement;  
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
(ii) 
signature of the contract with the firm that will carry out  the 
audit for 9 pilot Ministries covering operational, procedural and 
human resources aspects; and 
 
(iii) 
preparation by the Payroll Department of MFE of a quantitative 
overview of the salaries and staffing by Ministry.
 
3. Cotton 
Sector 
Reform
In accordance with paragraph 40 of the Letter of Development Policy, the 
Borrower has furnished to the Association satisfactory evidence that the following 
actions have been carried out
:
(a) 
Launching of the ex-ante poverty and social impact analysis; 
 
(b) 
launching of the bidding process for the privatization of HS; and 
 
(c) 
preparation of an action plan for the reduction of operating costs of 
Cotontchad to be implemented during the 2002-2003 cotton season, coupled with 
an assessment of  the Controller General past mandate and a proposal to revise 
his terms of reference to accompany the implementation of the action plan. 
 
