Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16359
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
CASHEW AND COCONUT TREECROPS PROJECT
(CREDIT 2050-TA)
March 6, 1997
Agriculture and Environment Operations
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Jun.-96   USS 1.00 = T Sh623.3
Jun.-95   USSI .00 = T Sh604.8
Jun.-94   US$1.00 = T Sh516.2
Jun.-93   US$1.00 = T Sh395.0
Jun.-92   US$1.00 = T Sh300.0
Jun.-91   US$ 1.00 = T Sh227.0
Jun.-90   US$1.00 = T Shl93.2
Jun.-89   US$1.00 = T ShI45.0
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Tanzania
July I -June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AERP           Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project
ARI            Agricultural Research Institute
CBT            Cashew Board of Tanzania
CCTP           Cashew and Coconuts Treecrops Project
CDC            Cashew Development Centres
CIP            Cashew Improvement Program
CRDB           Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
CRF            Cashew Research Fund
CSu            Commercial Service Unit
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
EAT            East African Tall
GTZ            German Agency for Technical Cooperation
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Agency
IPM            Integrated Pest Management
LD             Lethal Disease
MCLO           mycoplasma-like organism
MOAC           Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
NAEP           National Agricultural Extension Project
NCDP           National Coconut Development Program
ODA            Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
PMD            Powdery Mildew Disease
RIF            Regional Input Funds
SACCO          Savings and Credit Cooperative
SPU            Special Program Unit
VEO            Village Extension Officer
ZSTC           Zanzibar State Trading Company
Vice President             C. Madavo
Country Director           J. Adams
Technical Manager          S. Ganguly
Task Team Leader           S. Kumar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANJA
CASHEW AND COCONUT TREECROPS PROJECT
(Cr. 2050-TA)
CONTENTS
Preface ......................................................... i
Evaluation Summary ........................................................                                                                                ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................                                                                  ...................... 1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...................                                                             ...................... 1
B.  ACHIEVEMENT  OF  OBJECTIVES  ........................................................  2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..................                                                              ...................... 8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ........................................................                                                               9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ........................................................                                                                    10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE   ........................................................ 11
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS ........................................................                                                                  11
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ........................................................                                                                 12
I.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................................................                                                               12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .........................................................1
Table  1:   Summary  of AssessmeDts ...........................................1............. 
Table  2:    Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ........................................................                                               3
Table 3:  Project Timetable ........................................................                                                             3
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................... 4
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................ 4
Table  6:    Key  Indicators for Project Operation  .............................................. .... 5
Table  7:    Studies Included  in  Project ........................................................                                              6
Table 8A: Project Cost (US$ '000s) .                                  ........................................................ 7
Table 8B: Project Financing ........................................................                                                             8
Table  9:    Economic  and  Financial Costs and  Benefits ....................                                        ...................... 9
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................                                                    21
Table  11:  Compliance  with  Operational Manual Statements .............                                               ..................... 12
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................................ 12
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................     13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
A.        Aide M6moire
B.        Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C.        Cofmancer's Contribution to the ICR
D.        Tables
Map - Distribution of Major Cashew and Coconut Project Activities
2



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZAN1A
CASHEW AND COCONUT TREECROPS PROJECT
(Cr. 2050-TA)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Cashew and Coconut
Treecrops Project (CCTP) in Tanzania, for which an IDA Credit (2050-TA) in the amount of
SDR 19.4 million (US$25.1 million equivalent) was signed on 28 July 1989, and became effective on
28 January, 1990. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) took place in March/April, 1993 and the last
disbursement was made on November 18, 1996 after which the credit was closed with a balance of
SDR 5.75 million. This amount was canceled and total expenditures under the project were
SDR 13.65 million.
This ICR was prepared by a mission' from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, on
behalf of the Africa Agriculture Operations Group 1 (AFTA1) of the World Bank. Preparation of the
ICR commenced with the mission's visit to Tanzania from 25 August to 14 September 1996. This
report is based on material gathered from the project files and supervision reports, as well as
discussions with Bank and Government of Tanzania (GOT) staff associated with the project. In
addition, in conjunction with representatives of the British Overseas Development Administration
(ODA) and the German technical cooperation agency, GTZ, co-financiers of the project, the mission
undertook intensive discussions and field investigations with staff of research stations, research sub-
stations, Cashew Development Centres (CDCs), coconut nurseries and seed gardens, on-farm trials, and
farmers in Zanzibar and on the mainland. Contributions to the report were made by Satish Kumar,
AFMKE, Fred King, Jeri Larson and Jim Coates, AFTA 1, anac it was reviewed by Sushma Ganguly,
Technical Manager, AFTAI
The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR through the arrangements for field
visits and meetings, and provided useful comments on the mission's Aide-Memoire. In addition, a
"Project Completion Report" was prepared by the borrower and a summary, also prepared by the
borrower, is attached as appendix B. ODA prepared a report on its cofinanced part of the project and
its executive summary is included in appendix C. No comments or input was received from the other
cofinancer.
'he mission comprised rim Lamrock (FAO TCIR - Economist/Mission Leader) and Nick Richards (Treecrops Specialist - Consultnt). lbe
ICR for the Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project (Cr 1891-TA) was prepared during the same mission.
i






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETTON REPORT
TANZANIA
CASHEW AND COCONUT TREECROPS PROJECT
(Cr. 2050-TA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        The Cashew And Coconut Treecrops Project (CCTP) evolved from two preceding pilot
projects in cashew and coconut development. The National Coconut Development Program
(NCDP), established in 1979 and financed by the Federal Republic of Germany, examined pest and
disease measures in coconut production systems, began looking at the potential for introducing
improved varieties for drought and disease tolerance, and supported training in extension and field
advisory services. IDA's involvement commenced in 1981 with support for the "Coconut Pilot
Project" amounting to SDR 5.2 million under Cr 1070-TA. In May, 1987, a proposal was prepared
by Government for a follow-up phase. A similar pilot project for cashew development was financed
under the undisbursed balance of the Second Cashew Development Project (Cr 801 -TA) to analyze
the main causes of the decline in cashew production and to recommend agronomic methods to
reverse this decline. A proposal for a follow-up phase was prepared in March 1988 to be jointly
financed by ODA. The two proposals were appraised as one Cashew and Coconut Treecrops Project
in October, 1988.
2.        The project formed part of the World Bank's development assistance strategy for
Tanzania in supporting the Government's efforts to reform, rehabilitate, modernize and expand the
country's research, extension, input supply, marketing and credit systems.
3.        The project was signed in July, 1989 and became effective in January, 1990.
Project Objectives and Components
4.        The objectives of the project were to achieve long-term growth by increasing the
national production of cashewnuts for export, and the production of coconuts for the domestic oil
market. At the time of the mid-term review, the development objective for coconuts was expanded
to include increased production for domestic raw nut consumption.
5.        To achieve this, the project was to provide financing and technical assistance in support
of research, production development, planting materials and management and coordination. In
addition, for cashew, the project included a component for input supply and marketing support, and a
pilot credit scheme.
6.        The project was to build on the research programs supported by ODA under the Cashew
Improvement Program and GTZ under the National Coconut Development Program, with the
ii



research components of the project to be cofinanced by ODA and GTZ for cashew and coconut
respectively.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.        The project commenced in January 1990, and a MTR was completed in April 1993.
Project performance up to the MTR was generally below expectations with the exception of research
activities, as a consequence of poor project planning and administration, and the inability of GOT to
provide counterpart funds. The pilot credit scheme was not functioning well as a consequence of
lack of restructuring of the component and the need for improved management of the Cooperative
and Rural Development Bank (CRDB).
8.        The MTR, although completed late, outlined a clear plan for the project to be realigned
with project objectives and outcomes. The 3 year plan formulated at that time included revised
procurement, civil works, and training plans, redefinition of roles for extension, credit and Cashew
Development Centres, and the formulation of a new CCTP management structure for the project,
aimed to better co-ordinate both cashew and coconut activities.
9.        Since the MTR, project implementation has generally been satisfactory, although the
continued shortage of GOT counterpart funds has caused some delays and modifications to
activities. The flow of funds from IDA and counterpart funds through government agencies was
unsatisfactory. Lengthy delays were experienced with the Central Tender Board in approving bids
for civil works programs.
Achievement of Objectives
10.       During the project's life, Tanzania's cashew production has increased rapidly, rising
from 19,275 tons in 1988/9 to 81,729 tons in 1995/6 and, whilst there were other positive extemal
factors that contributed, particularly progress with marketing reforms, the project has made a
significant contribution to this increase. Foreign exchange earnings have increased from US$ 12.9
million in 1989/90 to US$ 79.5 million in 1995/96 and farmgate earnings have gone from US$ 7.5
million to US$ 44.1 million. Cashew research and extension activities have been co-ordinated
through a network of 7 Cashew Development Centres (CDCs). Research and extension capacity for
cashew has been built, and input supply, particularly the availability of sulfur and motorized blowers
has increased. Therefore, the main development objectives of the project have been met. However,
the objective of the development of higher yielding, Powdery Mildew Disease (PMD) resistant
varieties has not yet been fully met. The cashew breeding program has identified five potentially
PMD tolerant clones but these have not been fully evaluated and are not available for growers.
11.       Surveys for coconut production point to an increase in the area of plantings and
increased nut production per palm, together with increased income derived from coconuts. Research
and extension activities were located in all coastal and island regions, with a good distribution of
major efforts such as variety trials and verification plots. Thus the project objectives have been
achieved on the production side, leading to higher farmer incomes. However, the poor performance
of introduced dwarfs and hybrids has not resulted in higher yielding, Lethal Disease (LD)-resistant
palms obtained from commercial seed gardens as expected. On the processing side, progress
iii



towards reduction in vegetable oil imports by increased domestic coconut oil production has been
marginal. There has been some effort in disseminating information and equipment for small-scale
processing, especially to village women's groups.
Project Costs
12.       The costs of the project were expected to be US$ 42.4 million with a foreign exchange
content of US$ 30.2 million. Actual project costs were below these levels, with an estimated total
cost of US$ 32.2 million with a foreign exchange content of US$ 22.5 million. IDA's contribution to
project costs amounted to US$ 18.3 million. This was mainly due to the scaling down of project
activities in line with the shortfalls in Government budgetary allocations to project activities.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.       Initially, there were difficulties in running two project management units, the Cashew
Improvement Program (CIP) and National Coconut Development Program (NCDP), under the one
project with different planning and reporting procedures. This was corrected at mid-term review by
integrating the management into the Cashew and Coconut Treecrops Project.
14.       The project was adversely affected by the inability of Government to provide its share of
counterpart funds throughout the project life. The mechanism for the flow of funds was considered
by the project's management to be unsatisfactory, particularly the flow of both IDA funds and
counterpart funds through Government agencies. These difficulties were caused mainly by project
management's lack of understanding of IDA procurement and disbursement rules and procedures
15.       The lack of progress with the restructuring and strengthening of the capacity of CRDB
had a serious effect on the implementation and success of the pilot credit scheme, even though this
component was only intended to disburse about eleven percent of the total project funding.
16.       The emergence of research results was slower than expected. However, this is more a
reflection on the assumptions and expectations at the design stage, rather than attributable to project
activities. Breeding programs for tree crops require a minimum of 10 years and whilst the project
was to support ongoing research activities, there were not sufficient positive indications at the
commencement of the project to have reasonably expected the results to have been achieved during
the project's life.
Sustainability
17.       The extension activities following the CCTP project will be assisted by IDA through the
National Agricultural Extension Project II, (NAEP II), for the period 1996 to 2001. This will cover
all Tanzanian agriculture including cashew and coconut. Coconut research will continue to be
funded by GTZ until 2000, maintaining the continuity of and commitment to this activity. At the
time of these project's termination, sustainability will depend on future funding sources, both public
and private, for extension and research activities. Efforts have already begun in this area with the
collection of levies from cashew farmers.
iv



18.       Under the recently imposed levy on cashew exports, funds of nearly one million dollars
were collected by the fund collection agency, Cashew Board of Tanzania (CBT), to be credited to a
separate "Cashew Research Fund (CRF)" to be administered by a Board of Trustees. This process
has proved unreliable in the first year of operation, having forwarded for research less than 25% of
payments due. The arrangement in place for the collection and administration of the levy needs to
be improved to guarantee sustainable cashew research; otherwise the future of cashew research
would remain uncertain. Overall the project's sustainablity is rated likely.
Bank Performance
19.       It is considered that IDA performance has been satisfactory. The project was well
designed to complement the research efforts in critical areas. However, it proved to be over-
optimistic in terms of the time required to achieve and promulgate research results. After a slow
start, overall supervision was also satisfactory, as demonstrated by the effectiveness of the
alterations made at mid-term review, and the frequent and close contact that the supervision teams
have kept with the project.
Borrower Performance.
20.       The performance of the Borrower has also been satisfactory. Obligations on reports,
accounts and legal covenants have generally been satisfactory. The Government's obligations to
provide counterpart funds for project activities was not fully met and this contributed to reduced and
delayed project activities. This was based on overall budget constraints that has affected all projects
in the country. The Borrower completed its contribution to the ICR process by the preparation of the
"Project Completion Report", and participated in the ICR mission.
Project Outcome
21.       The major project development objectives of increasing production have been achieved
for cashew, and less spectacularly for coconut production. The upgrading of cashew and coconut
research and extension programs, and their co-ordination under CCTP was achieved, as was
considerable development of staff through training programs. The reform of cashew marketing and
increased benefits to the farmer were also achieved but domestic cashew processing remains at a low
level.
22.       Against the positive outcomes of the project, the research objectives were not achieved,
as there remain the unsolved problems of Lethal Disease and drought tolerance in coconut, and
Powdery Mildew Disease in Cashew.
23.       The project outcome overall has been rated as satisfactory.
v



Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
24.        Findings. The main findings from the implementation of the CCTP project were:
(i) research and development projects in treecrops require a long time frame for the breeding, testing,
propagation and promulgation of the materials being developed, and large investments are involved
which do not necessarily see demonstrable returns in the short or even medium term; (ii) reforms in
the marketing systems for cashews have made a significant impact on the rehabilitation of the
production areas and on the resultant production levels and foreign exchange earnings; (iii)
counterpart commitments to project funding are essential for the project progress to remain on track;
(iv) assured mechanisms for sustaining funding for continuing research are crucial if the results of
past efforts and investment are not to be lost.
25.        Future Operations. ODA support for cashew research has been completed and future
research is to be funded through the export levy on cashew to be channeled to the Agricultural
Research Institute (ARI). GTZ have an agreement to continue support to coconut research until
2000. All extension programs and activities will be handled through National Agricultural
Extension Project II (NAEP II). Three CDCs will be maintained under public sector control with
the other four being placed into the private sector. Seedling production will be continued on the
established private nurseries. The project has prepared a plan for the redeployment of professional
staff that have been trained and gained experience under the project, as well as a plan for the
deployment, continued use and maintenance of the assets.
26.        Key Lessons Learned. The key lessons learned were as follows: (i) flexibility
(consistent with overall objectives) is important in project activities, to allow for changing
circumstances, priorities and initial project assumptions that prove to be invalid; (ii) reservations
concerning the cost effectiveness of the dual management structure of the project (CIP and NCDP)
were justified; a single CCTP management unit was more effective; (iii) mechanisms for
procurement and disbursement were consistently problematical for project implementors; (iv) more
time is needed to complete research objectives in plant breeding aspects, and greater allowance for
failure of improved plant materials should be factored into project appraisals, especially in climates
distinctly different from where the materials are known to perform well, or where disease resistance
is thought to be a limitation; (v) building upon or scaling up previous pilot operations can help
assure a greater degree of success; and (vi) an effective mid-term review can help in restructuring or
putting a project onto a solid basis.
vi






TANZANIA
CASHEW AND COCONUT TREECROPS PROJECT
(Cr. 2050-TA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
27.       The objectives of the project were to achieve long-term growth by increasing the national
production of cashewnuts for export, and the production of coconuts for the domestic oil market. At
the time of the mid-term review, the development objective for coconut was expanded to include
increased production for domestic raw nut consumption.
28.       To achieve this, the project was to provide financing and technical assistance in support
of:
(i)     expanded cashew and coconut research breeding and selection to develop higher
yielding, more disease and drought tolerant varieties/hybrids;
(ii)    the development and operations of seven Cashew Development Centres and
three coconut seed farms for the propagation and dissemination of quality
planting materials;
(iii)   the production development through the training of extension and research staff,
and the dissemination of cashew and coconut production packages;
(iv)    the management and coordination of the cashew improvement and coconut
development programs;
(v)    the cashew input supply and local marketing support;
(vi)    strengthening credit facilities in the southern cashewnut production areas in the
form of a pilot credit scheme managed by the Cooperative and Rural
Development Bank (CRDB);
(vii)   promotion of edible oil production from coconuts.
29.       The project formed part of the World Bank's development assistance strategy for
Tanzania in supporting the Government's efforts to reform, rehabilitate, modernize and expand the
country's research, extension, input supply, marketing and credit systems. The project was to build
on the research programs supported by ODA under the Cashew Improvement Program and GTZ
under the National Coconut Development Program, with the research components of the project
continuing to be cofinanced by ODA and GTZ for cashew and coconut respectively. Therefore,
IDA's involvement came at an appropriate time to support research and extension development by
financing infrastructure, equipment and training. The project's research objectives were squarely



aimed at the principal agronomic constraints that were facing these two treecrops - lethal disease and
drought resistance in coconut, and powdery mildew in cashew.
30.       The project was active in all of the major cashew production areas of Tanzania, which
are mainly found in the southern regions of Mtwara and Lindi, but include Coast and Tanga regions.
Project activities on coconuts were in Coast and Tanga regions and the islands of Mafia, Zanzibar
and Pemba (see Map).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Cashew
Rehabilitation
31.       There has been significant progress in cashew grove rehabilitation/rejuvenation in all
districts, which has included undergrowth removal, weeding, removal of unproductive trees,
replanting, infilling, top working and sulfur usage. Over 9 million cashew trees planted in groves
were rehabilitated, and replaced in some cases. Farmers' awareness of the concepts of tree
productivity and the need to maintain groves has been realized. Cashew trees are no longer treated
as bush crops in the main growing areas. Following the extension and research program, farmers
now have a choice of alternative rehabilitation programs which they can choose according to cost
considerations. Sulfur dusting was extended to 20% of trees and 24% of farmers. Assistance
provided under the CRDB credit scheme fell well short of the targeted 10,000 farmers, with less than
1,000 receiving loans. Input supply, particularly the availability of sulfur and motorized blowers has
increased greatly (Appendix C, Table 5) and approximately 25% of farmers were able to obtain
blowers, sulfur and other inputs to control PMD.
Cashew Development Centres
32.       Seven CDCs were established during the project and distributed appropriately in all
cashew districts. The distribution of cashew research and extension efforts (Appendix B, Table 3)
has been logical and quite well related to the actual distribution of production. The CDCs act as a
source of seed and scion wood, and provide technical and extension assistance. The planting of
cashew seedlings and grafted rootstocks fell slightly short of the targeted 1.5 million plants. The
number of demonstration plots established on farms almost doubled the planned target.
33.       There have been significant improvements in the capacity and efficiency of extension
and research staff following the training program that was available to all levels of staff, even though
actual levels of staff training and courses fell short of targets. Table 6 of Appendix C details training
activities achieved during the project. The mass production of training materials, and greater
involvement in courses and workshops for both staff and farmers was achieved. All positions in the
Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) at Naliendele associated with the project activities are now
localized.
2



Production and Earnings
34.        During the project's life, cashew production has increased rapidly, rising from 19,275
tons in 1988/9 to 81,729 tons in 1995/6, representing an annual increase of 29% (Appendix C, Table
1). Whilst there were other positive external factors that contributed, particularly progress with
marketing reforrns, the project has made a significant contribution to this increase. With
liberalization of marketing, the farmgate share of the export price increased from 42% in 1988/89 to
66% in 1994/95. This has fallen back to 56% in 1995/96 (Appendix C, Table 2), due to fewer nut
traders operating in the market limiting competition at the farm gate. Foreign exchange earnings
have increased from US$ 12.9 million in 1989/90 to US$ 79.5 million in 1995/96 with the value
reaching the farmers going from US$ 7.5 million to US$ 44.1 million over the same period.
Research Results
35.        The main research results on cashews to date have recently been published by the
project'. Whilst the main development objectives of the project on the cashew side have been met,
there remains the problem of PMD control. The cashew breeding program has identified five
potentially PMD-tolerant clones but these have not been fully evaluated and are not generally
available for growers. PMD control is still achieved by sulfur dusting. This is not sustainable and
may lead to soil acidification. Alternative systemic fungicides have been tested at Naliendele and
registration applications made, but these require water for usage, which is often in very short supply,
and therefore makes this approach unworkable in the short term for widespread use.
36.        There are no hybrid seed gardens operating due to incomplete selection of clones for
PMD screening. CDCs are releasing mainly seed from polyclonal seed gardens. The variability of
progeny is thus likely to be high, which could lead to a significant percentage of lower productivity
trees. There have been no trials to test the variability of hybrid seed progeny. More effort should
have been placed on releasing clonal material, and assisting nurseries to promote them.
37.        Cashew research is now substantially dependent upon funding derived through the
export levy. There is no continuing external assistance. Cashew research is under threat of funding
due to failure of funds to be released from Cashew Board of Tanzania (CBT) to Cashew Research
Fund (CRF); to date for 1996/97 only 25% of export levy funds have been received by the CRF for
the 1995/96 season. Unless this problem of release of funds is dealt with, a major shortfall will exist
to continue the research program.
38.        The issue of soil fertility has only partially been investigated, and fertilizer response
trials are in progress in some districts. Greater consideration to reducing nutrient removal via
harvesting and the ability of soils to supply nitrogen, potassium and phosphorous needs to be
evaluated. Research station trials should include some annual soil and leaf sampling and
interpretation.
Cashew Research Project - Summary of Achievements' DRT/ODA Cashew Research Project, May 1996.
3



Input Supply
39.       The major inputs imported were sulfur and blowers. A total of 12,131 tons of sulfur
was imported against a target of 16,812 tons. A total of 3,529 blowers were imported against a
target of 4,945. By 1996 sulfur was available through the Tanzania Fertilizer Company, and
adequate supplies of blowers were on hand from previous years. T he responsibility for the control
and organization of supply of inputs to be used to boost cashew production rested with the
Commercial Services Unit (CSU) of the project. Initially the project was set up with funds (US$ 2.2
million) provided to CRDB, to create a three tier system of importers, stockists and farmers. The
primary recipients of funds were importers, who took advantage of the funding in the first two years.
However, repayment rates were poor, as was the case with the stockists. The CRDB in 1994 decided
to tighten its credit policy by demanding land titles for loans. This proved difficult to implement and
CRDB stopped advancing credit for these purposes. Farmers were used to receiving inputs from the
government, and thus believed they were not required to repay the cost of cashew inputs set up under
a government organized project. Overall, the CRDB phase of the input supply project failed as the
remaining stockists were not able to sell all stocks and, as further credit was refused, the stockists set
up informal credit arrangements with farmers.
40.       From 1994 on, Regional Input Funds (RIFs) were created, funded by a levy of TSh 10
per kg of nuts sold by each farmer. A great deal of management and organizational problems were
experienced with the RIFs, together with the actual use of funds levied. By 1996, however, it is
estimated that TSh 750 million resides in the funds collectively, which is more than adequate for
input requisitioning for the coming season, if the funds are used for that purpose.
Pilot Credit Scheme
41.       The Pilot Credit Scheme as designed was not successful. This was mainly as a result of
the lack of progress in improving the capacity of CRDB in the early years. Repayment experience
was poor due to lack of disciplined follow-up on the part of CRDB, a weak culture of repayment on
the part of the primary societies and adverse seasonal conditions. Steps were taken to deal with
these difficulties and at the time of the mid-term review, further support was diverted to boost the
credit scheme both for farmers and rural stockists.
42.       However, the major restructuring of CRDB initiated by the Banking and Financial
Institutions Act (1991), and followed through with the involvement of the Danish International
Development Agency, DANIDA, did not have a significant impact on its capacity until late 1995.
CRDB was unable to provide new or additional lending to existing clients as a result of restrictions
placed on it by the Bank of Tanzania and consequently no further project loans were provided. The
recovery performance of the scheme was mixed mainly due to the lack of supervision capacity of
CRDB. Overall, the implementation of the credit component was unsatisfactory.
43.       However, the project has supported the development of eight Savings and Credit
Cooperatives (SACCOs) in the major cashew producing areas. Moreover, due to the establishment
and eventual working of the RIFs, the project's objective of securing inputs for cashew production
were met, although the project's initiative of providing this through credit did not succeed.
4



Coconut
Research
44.        Research and extension activities and resources were located in all coastal and island
regions, with a good distribution of major efforts such as variety trials and verification plots
(Appendix C, Table 4). The Chambezi research station was overhauled and re-opened for breeding
and disease screening trials. Variety trial testing at three distinct LD intensity and rainfall sites
commenced in 1991, with survivors of the best imported hybrids crossed with selected East African
Tall (EAT) palms, to try to identify LD resistant materials and drought tolerance. In agronomy
research, limiting nutrients for a range of soil types were identified, benefits of hand weeding were
established and preferred palm spacings were determined. In farming systems research, 88 on-farm
trials were set up throughout the country to evaluate and demonstrate intercropping and returns.
45.        However, a number of issues remain unresolved or were inadequately pursued. Despite
the research efforts, there is no solution in sight to improve LD resistance and drought tolerance.
Hybrids failed to perform as expected at the start of the project. With this, the focus of the research
was diverted away from hybrid trials. The failure of hybrids also meant the abandonment of the two
hybrid seed gardens. However, there are areas where hybrids have performed well, e.g. Ng'apa
valley, but little work was done on identifying other potentially suitable areas. Whilst Zanzibar is at
present LD free, the focus of coconut breeding in Zanzibar should reflect LD resistance work on the
mainland.
46.        Soil sampling and fertility evaluation has not received continuous assessment, thus the
importance of nutrition issues is not clear. Earlier work had established limiting nutrients but was
not followed up in the project. The approach now should be to evaluate a nutrient balance/auditing
approach to farmers' blocks to determine the sustainability of zero fertilizer application practices.
5



Training
47.       Farmers were trained in selecting mother palms for seednut collection and nursery
practices for seedling production. Table 6 indicates the progress in training achieved during the
project.
Nurseries
48.       Coconut nursery development outstripped the targeted 325 nurseries, however the output
of these nurseries was well below that targeted. Private nurseries were established and these now
supply all seednuts for planting, apart from farmers own selections. A total of 4.1 million
seednuts/seedlings, 60% of which were to be hybrid, were planned for distribution; the project
actually achieved 1.4 million seedlings of improved varieties and 1.2 million EAT seednuts for
distribution. Of these planting materials, a very small percentage were actually hybrid materials, as
these materials did not perform well in field evaluations. The contribution of backyard nurseries and
farmers in producing nuts for planting remains unmeasurable but is thought to be significant, as
mentioned in surveys. The numbers of new growers of coconuts and the number of growers advised
on husbandry both were close to their respective targets, but these figures are almost impossible to
verify.
Integrated Pest Management
49.       The development of an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) system for the Coreid bug
(Pseudotheraptus wayi) was implemented and demonstrated to farmers. In disease control, LD
mycoplasma-like organism (MLO) screening continued, and MLO was isolated from insects
suggesting a possible insect vector (yet to be identified). Studies on the rate of LD spread in three
districts were initiated. Molecular biology research to complement LD resistance screening
commenced. The construction and operation of embryo culture facilities for coconut culture were
set up.
50.       Although IPM control of the Coreid bug was demonstrated, the necessity for farners to
thin their palms for the planting of host trees reduces the uptake of these practices. There also
remains the requirement to control antagonistic ants with ant attractant/insecticides.
6



Processing
51.       There was little emphasis placed on coconut processing. There has been some effort in
disseminating information and equipment for small-scale processing but it is generally not
widespread. The promotion of small scale coconut oil and copra processing was initiated by the
development and distribution of 35 rotary graters, 11 ram presses and 6 bridge presses, especially to
village women's groups. The low levels of local processing may result in lost opportunities for
foreign exchange savings and reduce the value of coconut products. Against this, however, are
factors such as the current global oversupply of palm oil and its resulting low prices. It would not be
appropriate to artificially protect coconut oil from competition and thereby increase the price that
local consumers must pay.
Production and Incomes
52.       The lack of data on domestic and export coconut production volumes of fresh nuts,
copra and coconut oil, both before and after the project, makes an accurate assessment of production
performance difficult, other than by specific surveys such as completed by Ashimogo et al. (1996)1.
This was a major, independent impact survey conducted by scientists from the University of Sokoine
and a marketing advisor from the Marketing Development Bureau, Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives, (MOAC), and concluded that:
(i)     average production rose over the project period from 25-30 nuts to 30-40 nuts
per palm.
(ii)    annual palm replanting rate over all districts was 2% following the project
commencement.
(iii)   income from palm activities increased by about 20% relative to pre-project.
Other Matters
53.       Problems of administration and co-ordination were experienced in integrating the NCDP
extension program into the national extension service. The effectiveness of Village Extension
Officers (VEOs) was a particular cause of concern, especially in Zanzibar.
54.       The marketing reforms experienced in the mainland have not taken place in Zanzibar,
where the relative importance of coconut is higher. The operations of the Zanzibar State Trading
Company (ZSTC), the sole official buyer and exporter of coconut products, have prevented free
market prices and incentives to develop for coconut products.
Economic and Financial Objectives
55.       Since the project was essentially a research and development project, no overall
economic rate of return was calculated at appraisal. The years in which the project was effective
saw many factors operating that have led to increased production and farm incomes, most notably
the liberalization of cashew marketing, and the upturn in local demand for fresh coconuts. As
'Coconut Impact Assessment Survey - Final Report" NCDP. June, 1996.
7



mentioned above, foreign exchange earnings for Tanzania from cashew production have increased
from US$ 12.9 million in 1989/90 to US$ 79.5 million in 1995/96. The effect on incomes in rural
areas has also been significant with the farmgate value going from US$ 7.5 million to US$ 44.1
million over the same period. Due to the informal nature of the coconut market, the true effects on
farm incomes for coconuts are difficult to gauge, but are in the order of 20% in real terms. However,
the research efforts that the project has supported are in themselves yet to yield any demonstrable,
quantifiable benefits. It is therefore inappropriate to assess the economic rate of return ex-post for
this project's support to research as there is no firm basis for the quantification and extrapolation of
the expected level of benefits of the research efforts. These benefits are contingent on future levels
of funding and the scientific progress made.
56.       The costs of the project were expected to be US$ 42.4 million with a foreign exchange
content of US$ 30.2 million. Actual project costs were below these levels, with an estimated total
cost of US$ 32.2 million with a foreign exchange content of US$ 22.5 million. IDA's contribution to
project costs amounted to US$ 18.3 million. This was mainly due to the non-performance of the
credit component under the Pilot Credit Scheme. The implementing agency, CRDB, was being
restructured and was not permitted to engage in new lending activities under conditions imposed by
the Central Bank of Tanzania. Another major contributing factor was the scaling down of project
activities in line with the shortfalls in Government budgetary allocations to project activities.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
57.       Project performance up to the time of the mid-term review was mixed, but generally
below expectations. This resulted from mainly poor project planning and management, and the
inability of Government to provide its share of counterpart funds. There were difficulties in running
two units, the CIP and NCDP, under the one project with different planning and reporting
procedures. The comment was made by IDA at appraisal that the management costs associated with
the dual approach were high. Also, up to that time, the lack of progress with the restructuring and
strengthening of the capacity of CRDB had a serious effect on the implementation and success of the
pilot credit scheme.
58.       The mid-term review outlined a clear plan of action to steer the project back onto target.
This 3 year plan included revised procurement, civil works and training plans, redefinition of roles in
extension, credit, and CDCs, and the finalization of a new management structure for the project.
Project scope was altered to reduce the Government's required contribution in view of the financial
constraints faced by Government. Since the mid-term review, implementation has been satisfactory
although some project activities have been delayed or scaled down in view of the continuing
shortage of Government counterpart funds.
59.       The mechanism for the flow of funds was considered by the project's management to be
unsatisfactory, particularly the flow of both IDA funds and counterpart funds through Government
agencies. These difficulties were caused mainly by project management's lack of understanding of
IDA procurement and disbursement rules and procedures. In addition delays were experienced due
to cumbersome procedures in the Central Tender Board.
60.       The one major factor that affected the project was the slower than anticipated emergence
of research results. However, this is more a reflection on the assumptions and expectations at the
8



design stage, rather than attributable to project activities. Breeding programs for tree crops require a
minimum of 10 years and whilst the project was to support ongoing research activities, there were
not sufficient positive indications at the commencement of the project to have reasonably expected
the results to have been achieved during the project's life.
61.       It is considered optimistic to have expected the coconut breeding objectives to be
reached and the coconut hybrid seed gardens to be established, given the failure of imported palm
materials. It appears that some failures were evident at the pre-project stage, and greater allowance
in the risk analysis for palm failures in a dry/ disease stressed environment should have been made.
The problem with LD resistance was underestimated as subsequently during the project, resistance to
lethal yellow disease as inherent in the introduced dwarfs, was found to be different from LD
resistance. However, CCTP staff did not sufficiently promote hybrid coconut in those areas suitable
for growth.
62.       On the cashew side, the successful screening for PMD resistance and higher yield, the
establishment and evaluation of clones under different environments, the development of subsequent
hybrids and their evaluation in progeny trials, all require much more than 6 years. A stated aim was
to develop a resistant variety after I year, and after a further 4 years release a resistant, higher
yielding clone for mass multiplication. It was further proposed to phase out clonal multiplication of
improved clones and replace with hybrid seeds after year 5. The method to do this, the Accelerated
Varietal Improvement System, failed to implement its very tight and compressed sequence of events.
63.       The weaknesses in the capacity of CRDB to successfully manage a credit program were
recognized at appraisal, but the activities under the Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project
(AERP) to restructure CRDB were relied on to minimize this risk. In the event, the AERP failed to
have an impact on the capacity of CRDB to successfully manage this component.
64.       To complement the expected increase in production in both cashew and coconut, the
project design might have included some strategy and support for processing. For coconut oil, the
global oversupply of palm oil and its cheap price work directly against encouraging large scale
processing. However, the high, and increasing demand for fresh coconuts has still made increased
production profitable. To date only a limited amount of small scale processing by women's village
groups has made any progress. For cashew processing, possible opportunities for added value are
being lost due to the direct export of raw nuts. The previous investment in the large-scale factories
has proved to be mis-directed since all factories are now dormant. A re-examination of smaller-
scale, perhaps village-level processing based on the experiences of India could be undertaken, but
any investment should only be undertaken by the private sector based purely on commercial criteria
without any subsidies or other assistance from Government.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
65.       Extension activities following the CCTP project will be assisted by IDA through the
National Agricultural Extension Project II (NAEP II), for the period 1996 to 2001. This will cover
all Tanzanian agriculture including cashew and coconut. Coconut research will continue to be
funded by GTZ until 2000, maintaining the continuity and commitment. Beyond this, and assuming
GTZ will discontinue funding coconut research at that time, a levy from coconuts will have to be
imposed or another source of funding found. Currently a levy could be difficult to implement as
9



very little exporting occurs, and marketing of coconuts is not controlled in respect of weights
recorded and prices paid through domestic markets.
66.       For funding future cashew research, a 3% ad valorem levy has been imposed on cashew
exports: 2% to go to the Cashew Research Fund (CRF) to be administered by a Board of Trustees,
and 1% to meet the expenses of regulatory activities carried out by the Cashew Board of Tanzania.
In the first year, the CBT collected over TSh 735 million under this levy out of which only TSh 100
million was released for research. The remaining funds are reported to have been misused by CBT.
The Government has taken administrative action against the wrong doers and, in a communication to
the Bank, has committed to make good the losses suffered by the CRF. The share of the CRF of
about TSh 550 million is more than adequate to meet the research costs of cashew currently met by
the Government. The satisfactory workings of the mechanism to collect the levy and to credit the
research share to the CRF is crucial in order that cashew research avoid funding problems witnessed
in 1996.
67.       The farngate share of the fob price has fallen in recent times. Whilst free and
competitive market conditions should determine the farmgate price, the presence of few, powerful
buyers tend to force down farmgate prices.
68.       The proposed leasing of 4 CDCs has not eventuated, and progress is slow in this area.
The lease agreements were to have been approved by MOAC and actual transfer accomplished by
June 1996. The major problems include training of lessors in seed garden/clone production and
quality control, and the question of lessors' ability to pay. The best outcome here would be to allow
former ministry staff to develop the CDCs themselves for commercial operations.
69.       The RIFs set up in each cashew region, are well funded to provide for additional inputs
without further levy collection. The liability for the Pilot Credit Scheme and input supply credit is
being transferred from CRDB to Ministry of Finance, but continued efforts by CRDB to recover
outstanding loans is not guaranteed.
70.       While some uncertainty about the project's future remains, on the whole production
levels are expected to remain high, policies supporting a vigorous private sector are expected to
remain in place and solutions to the difficulties give above are feasible. For these reasons the
sustainability of the project has been rated likely.
10



E. BANK PERFORMANCE
71.       It is considered that IDA performance has been satisfactory. With the reservations
already noted, the project was well designed to complement the research efforts in critical areas.
However, it did prove to be over-optimistic in terms of the time required to achieve and promulgate
research results. Supervision was satisfactory, especially as demonstrated by the effectiveness of the
alterations made at mid-term review, and the frequent and close contact that the supervision teams
have kept with the project. Four supervision missions were carried out in the first two years of the
project, but then none in the next fifteen months until right before the mid-term review. Since the
mid-termn review in 1993, six supervision missions were conducted. In addition, the Resident
Mission in Tanzania provided oversight of the project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE.
72.       The performance of the Borrower has been mixed, but marginally satisfactory.
Obligations on reports, accounts and legal covenants have generally been satisfactory. The
Government's obligations to provide counterpart funds for project activities was not fully met and
this contributed to reduced and delayed project activities. The Borrower completed its contribution
to the ICR process by the preparation of the "Project Completion Report", and participated in the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission. The Government's Executive Summary of its
Project Completion Report is attached as Annex B.
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS
73.       ODA support for cashew research has been completed and an internal review of the
research activities was carried out in November, 1996. The review was quite positive about the
results of the research undertaken and the capacity that had been built up in the country. Future
research is to be funded through the export levy on cashew (CRF), to be channeled through to the
Agricultural Research Institute (ARI). GTZ have an agreement to continue support to coconut
research until 2000. All extension programs and activities will be handled through National
Agricultural Extension Project II (NAEP II) supporting extension of all agricultural research and
development in Tanzania. Three CDCs will be maintained under the Naliendele research station and
ARI with the other four being placed into the private sector. Seedling production will be continued
on the established private nurseries. The project has prepared a plan for the redeployment of
professional staff that have been trained and gained experience under the project, as well as a plan
for the deployment, continued use and maintenance of the assets.
74.       Several important issues are noted that relate to future activities in coconut and cashew
research and development, including:
* the importance for continuing cashew research into PMD in the light of adverse economic
and environmental effects of continued sulfur use, and limited alternative control methods
in the absence of PMD tolerant materials;
* the funding arrangements for cashew research. These are crucial. Mechanisms for the
collection, accounting and allocation of research funds must be adhered to;
11



* the arrangements for the leasing of the remaining four CDCs, to ensure the continuing
operation of the centers after divestiture;
* the control and usage of funds collected by Regional Investment Funds to support inputs
for cashew development;
* the importance of maintaining a policy of free trade in the context of encouraging domestic
processing of cashew;
* the reduction in competition for cashew in the southern regions with the emergence of
fewer buyers, which is resulting in lower farmgate prices;
* the long term evaluation of soil fertility in the context of limited or no fertilizer usage;
* the need for resources for treecrops under NAEP II; and
* the lack of marketing reforms for the coconut sector in Zanzibar with the operations of
ZSTC.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
75.       The major project objectives of increasing production have been very successfully
achieved for cashew, and less spectacularly for coconut production. The reduction of imported
edible vegetable oils has not been achieved as little progress in coconut oil processing has occurred.
The upgrading of cashew and coconut research and extension programs, and their co-ordination
under CCTP were achieved, as was considerable development of staff through training programs up
to Ph.D. level. The reform of cashew marketing and increased benefits to the farmer were also
achieved. Little progress has been made in coconut marketing which is unregulated and not
documented accurately, thus making project impact difficult to gauge in terms of production
changes. The establishment of a Tree Crops Institute has not occurred, and cashew processing
remains at a very low level of output. Credit arrangements through CRDB were not successfully
implemented with considerable doubt remaining on repayments of existing loans, however the
desired objective of providing inputs was achieved. The project outcome overall has been rated as
satisfactory.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
76.          The key lessons learned are as follows:
* Flexibility (consistent with overall objectives) is important in the implementation of
project activities, to allow for changing circumstances, priorities and initial project
assumptions that prove to be invalid;
* Reservations concerning the cost effectiveness of the dual management structure of the
project (CIP and NCDP) were justified; a single CCTP management unit agreed to during
the MTR was more effective;
* Mechanisms for procurement and disbursement were consistently problematical for project
implementors;
* More time is needed to complete research objectives in plant breeding aspects;
12



* Greater allowance for failure of improved plant materials should be factored into project
appraisals, especially in climates distinctly different from where the materials are known to
perform well, or where disease resistance is thought to be a limitation;
* Building upon or scaling up previous pilot operations can help assure a greater degree of
success; and
* An effective mid-term review can help in restructuring or putting a project onto a solid
basis.
13






PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objecdves            Substantial   Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                EV FI                                F
Sector policies                           El         El            E
Financial objectives           E l                  El 0E0
Institutional development     [Z           E         E             E
Physical objectives            E           W         0              0
Poverty reduction             Fl            7        El            L]
Gender issues                 [1           0         0l 
Other social objectives        E           El        E7            F
Environmental objectives       El          El        E             E
Public sector management      [I           El        El 
Private sector development                 El        El            El
Other (specify) - Research    -l          [    El                  El
B. EWJetustainabiit]                     Likely       nlik4    Ulnhcrain
(1)         (1) (F)
w   Ol  O



C.   Bnk.                                atformfnce  satisfa ctory Saddf=   Deiint
()           (e)        ()
Identification                              [I ]3   
Preparation assistance                                  [I E] Cl
Appraisal                       El          El          El
Supervision                    nl           [l 
D. Boffower pefmanc                      sadsfa=t     SAfag T- Deficient
(V)          (1')       (1)
Preparation                     E           El           E
Implementadon                   E           E            Cl
Covenant compliance             E           E:           E
Operation (if applicable)       El          El FI]
E. A Am fLoQutcome                    satisba=oz    Safisfaczory                r    v
2



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
F_r         TM                                 _ _                    C     Status
PrwAding operatons
1014-TA                 Cashew Nuts                        1974               Completed
801-TA                  Cashew Nuts II                     1978               Completed
1070-TA                 Coconut Pilot                      1980               Completed
1891-TA                 Ag.  Export  Rehabilitation        1988               Completed
Project
Foflowing operations
2899-TA                 National Extension  Project        1996                Ongoing
Phase II
2537-TA                 Ag.   Sector   Management          1993                Ongoing
Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned         Date A    l/l
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                 Jan-88
Preparation /1                                                             Apr-84
Pre-Appraisal                                                              Sept-88
Appraisal                                                                 March-89
Negotiations                                                              May-89
Board presentation                                                        June-89
Signing                                                                  28-July-89
Effectiveness                                      1-Nov-89               22-Jan-90
Midterm review                                      Jan-93                May-93
Project completion                                30-June-96             30-June-96
Credit closing                                    30-June-96             30-June-96
Preparation was undertaken by Project Preparation and Monitoring Bureau of Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development and the National Coconut Development Program, assisted
by IDA, FRG and ODA.
3



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
1990      1991      1992    1993    1994    1995   199%
A. Expressed in SDR
Appraisal Estimate               1.9       5.2      8.95    15.7    19.9   28.5   19.4
Actual                           1.8       4.3      6.9      9.3    11.4   13.0   13.3
Actual as % of estimate        94%        83%      78%     76%      74%    71%    69%
B. Expressed in US$
Appraisal Estimate              2.5        6.7    11.5    15.7    19.9   23.9   25.1
Actual                           2.4       5.8      9.5    12.8    15.9   18.3   18.8
Actual as % of estimate        97%        87%      83%     81%      80%    77%    76%
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Item                  Unit              At         Adjusted at  T  Actual
I                 I Appraisal         M[TR
Cashew
Cashew resistant seedlings   no                               1.5 million    1.2 million
Reclaim neglected trees    no                                  9 million     9.1 million
Trees being dusted         no                                 11 % of total   20% of total
Farmers  receiving  credit no                                   10,000          691
from CRDB
Traders receiving working  no                                     70             178
capital from CRDB
Cashew    production   to  tons                             67,000 by 1996     81,750
increase
Coconut
Nurseries established      no                                    1,200          1,105
Improved seedlings         no                                     I m          1.386m
Selected   EAT   seednuts  no                                    1.3 m          1.3 m
distributed
New growers                no                                   100,000        92,700
Growers    advised    on  no                                   300,000        331,913
husbandry
Note: These key indicators were established at the time of the mid-term review. The key performance indicators
determined at appraisal, superseded by those above, tracked the number of civil works units, man months of technical
assistance and numbers of training courses.
4



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report             Estimated                      Actual
NA                           NA
5



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study                  appraisal/redefied       Status                hnpact of Study
Motor Vehicle          Establish the status of the    Completed Feb., 1994  Basis for future
Utilization            present fleet and identify                     procurement
future requirements
CCTP Management        Devise appropriate MIS   Completed June, 1994  Implemented
Information Systems    for PIU
Prospects of Imposing                           Completed Jan, 1995   Basis of the CRF
Levy on Export of                                                     research levy
Cashewnut to Support
Cashew Research
Evaluation of the                               Completed Jan, 1995   None to date, system
Cashewnut Marketing                                                   is in private sector
System in Tanzania                                                    now.
Evaluation of CDCs                              Completed August,    Basis for proposal of
and Arrangements for                             1995                 leasing CDCs; four
Leasing                                                               have been leased.
How to Establish Rural                          Completed Nov, 1995  Basis of supporting
Savings and Credit                                                    eight SACCOs in the
Cooperatives in the                                                   Southern region
Cashewnut Growing
Areas of Tanzania
Coconut Impact Study                            Completed, May,       Evaluate project
1996                 impact on coconut
development
Study to Evaluate                               Not undertaken
Alternative Cashewnut
Processing Methods in
Tanzania
6



Table 8A: Project Cost (USS 'OOOs)
l                                     I    Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Item                      Local    Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total
Investment Costs
Civil Works
Cashew        1592      1060     2652       985      422      1407
Coconut        795       201       996      467       116      583
Vehicles
Cashew         151      2878     3029       144     2850      2994
Coconut        115      1812      1927       74      1308     1382
Consultancies
Cashew         335      5254      5589      416     3823      4239
Coconut        219      4159     4378       284     5087      5371
Training
Cashew          64      1216      1280       53      1263     1316
Coconut         78      1479      1557       68      1253     1321
Agricultural Inputs
Cashew          50       322       372      504                504
Coconut         78       504       582      261                261
Cashew Pilot Credit Scheme                          4767      4767               1895      1895
CRDB Sub-Loans                              647     2587      3234       583     2332      2915
Agricultural Extension Services            1553               1553       313                313
Research Funds                                                 485
Unallocated                                                   2031                            0
PPF - 571                                                      181                            0
Sub Total                                 5677    26239    31916       4152    20349    24501
Recurrent Costs
Cashew        2618      2128     4746      3142       854     3996
Coconut       4076      1674     5750      2368      1370     3738
Sub Total                                 6694      3802    10496      5510      2224      7734
Total                                     12371    30041    42412      9662    22573    32235
7



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estmate (US$M)     Actua/Latest Etimate (US$M)
Source                   Foreign     Local     Total I     Foreign    Local   Total
IDA                         20.1       5.0      25.1         12.89     5.41     18.3
Cofinancing   Institutions
(FRG/ODA)                   10.1       1.9      12.0         10.14     1.76     11.9
Domestic    Contribution
(GOT)                          -       5.3       5.3            -       2.1      2.1
TOTAL                       30.2      12.2      42.4         23.03     9.27     32.3
8



Table 9: Economic and Financial Costs and Benefits
Since the project was essentially a research and development project, no overall
economic rate of return was calculated at appraisal. The years in which the project was effective saw
many factors operating that have led to increased production and farm incomes, most notably the
liberalization of cashew marketing, and the upturn in local demand for fresh coconuts. As mentioned
above, foreign exchange earnings for Tanzania from cashew production have increased from
US$ 12.9 million in 1989/90 to US$ 79.5 million in 1995/96. The effect on incomes in rural areas has
also been significant with the farmgate value going from US$ 7.5 million to US$ 44.1 million over
the same period. Due to the informal nature of the coconut market, the true effects on farm incomes
for coconuts are difficult to gauge, but are in the order of 20% in real terms. However, the research
efforts that the project has supported are in themselves yet to yield any demonstrable, quantifiable
benefits. It is therefore inappropriate to assess the economic rate of return ex-post for this project's
support to research as there is no firm basis for the quantification and extrapolation of the expected
level of benefits of the research efforts. These benefits are contingent on future levels of funding and
the scientific progress made.
The costs of the project were expected to be US$ 42.4 million with a foreign exchange
content of US$ 30.2 million. Actual project costs were below these levels, with an estimated total
cost of US$ 32.2 million with a foreign exchange content of US$ 22.5 million. IDA's contribution to
project costs amounted to US$ 18.3 million.
9



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section       Covenant    Original      Revised       Status  Comments   Description
Type        Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
Credit       4.01(b)      Accounts/audit     -                  - C      In           (i) annual audit including
compliance.  special accounts; (ii) fumishing
audited accounts and auditor's
report within nine months of the
close of accounts.
Project               3.04 Management aspects -                 - C      In            CRDB to appoint a pilot credit
compliance.  scheme coordinator
Project      4.01(b)      Accounts/audit     -                  - CD     Completed   (i) annual audit, including
after delay.   special account. (ii) fumishing
audited accounts and auditor's
report within nine months of the
close of accounts.
Project               4.02 Management       11/30/89              C      In           (a) announce increase in
aspects    -                                  compliance.  producer price for cashew nuts
and (b) furnish association a
plan of action for improvement
of marketing system for cashew
nuts.
Prject       Schedule  4, Management aspects -                  - C      In           Borrower to appoint
Clause I     -                                              compliance.  coordinators for CIP and NCDP
and DCC for Mtwara
ject      Schedule  4, Management aspects -                  - CD     Completed    MALD's existing management
Clause 2     -                                              after delay.  team to meet at least twice a
year.
Project      Schedule  4, Monitoring & report.-                 - CP     Complied    Joint technical committee to
Clause 3     -                                              with partially. review cashew and coconut
development programs annually
and to meet at least once every
six months.
Project      Schedule  4, Management aspects -                  - C      In           Borrower to continue to
Clause 4     -                                              compliance.  maintain the cashew research
coordinating committee under
chairmanship of cashew
research coordinator of MALD.
Project      Schedule  4, Management aspects -                  - C      In           Annual work plans shall be
Clause 5 & 6  -                                             compliance.  prepared for both crops
independently by coordinators
and reviewed by MALD's
management team and IDA
Project      Schedule  4, Monitoring & report.-                 - C      In           A joint mid-term review to be
Clause 7     -                                              compliance.  undertaken not later than three
and a half years after effective
date of credit.
Project      Schedule  4, Management aspects -                  - C      In           Research at Naliendele's zonal
Clause 8     -                                              compliance.  agriculture and livestock
research and training center to
be under four basic programs
namely crop protection, varietal
improvement, agronomy and
socio-economic research.
10



Table 10 (continued)
Agreenent   Section      Covenant    Original       Revised      Status  Comments    Description
Type         Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Date         Date
Project      Schedule  4, Management aspects *                   - C      In            To  establish  seven  multi-
Clause 9     -                                               compliance.  purpose cashew  developmen
centers for production of clones
and scions initially, and latei
polyclonal seeds
Project      Schedule  4, Management aspects -                   - C      In            Demonstration  of integrated
Clause 10                                                    compliance.  more   diversified   cashew
production packages to be
initiated in about 200 villages.
Project      Schedule  4, Management aspects -                   - C      In            The coconut research program
Clause 11    -                                               compliance.  will be continued with updated
approaches. The coconut station
at   Chambezi   will   be
rehabilitated. The emphasis o
research to be shifted to on
farm testing and demonstrations
with assistance of extensionists.
Project      Schedule  4, Management aspects -                   - C      In            (a) CRDB to open a credit line
Clause 12(a)  -                                              compliance.  for licensed importers/traders to
procure and distribute sulfur
dust, blowers and protective
clothing in cashew areas.
Project      Schedule  4, Management aspects -                   - C      In            (b) a marketing  and  credi
Clause 12(b)  -                                              compliance.  specialist to be recruited to
assist in establishing a pilo
credit  scheme  in  cashew
production areas.
Project      Schedule  4, Management aspects -                   - CP     Complied      Pilot credit scheme to provide
Clause 13    -                                               with partially, resources to test altematives to
improve   effectiveness   &
efficiency of CRDB's credi
delivery    &    management
systems. CRDB is to: (a)
increase coverage of credi
system to smallholders; (b)
improve policies, procedures,
analytical  capabilities;  (c)
establish closer linkages with
primary cooperatives and the
extension system; (d) increase
participation    in   subloan
approval; (e) separate credit fo
supply and distribution o
inputs from production credh
for farmers.
C - Covenant complied with
CD - Complied with after delay
CP - Complied with partially
NC - Not complied with
11



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle        Planned                 Revised               Actual /I
Weeks        US>        Weeks  |  US$   I Weeks            US$
Preparation to
appraisal                            n/a                     n/a         28.3      63,100
Appraisal                             n/a                      n/a         35.3      79,500
Negotiations through
Board approval                       n/a                     n/a           6.6      16,900
Supervision                           n/a                     n/a         146.7    372,700
Completion                            n/a                     n/a          12.0      44,800
TOTAL                                                                   228.9    577,000
/1 Includes travel costs
n/a - Not available - not recorded on Cost Accounting System
12



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Nmnber    Days in       Spedalized Staff     Implementation    Development
Stage of Project   MontWYear        of        Field             Skills              Status         Objectives     Types of
Cycle                             Persons                   Represented                                           Problems
Pre-appaisal      5/88           n/a        n/a         n/a                          -                -              -
Apprisal          10/88          7          24          Ag. FA, Ec, Mkt,             -                -              -
Tree
Supervision       1/90           2          13          Ag, Tree                      2                2            PM
7/90           2          20          Ag, Tree                      2               2              F
2/91           7          15          Ag, Tree, Soc, Sci           2                2            PM, F
11/91          4          25          Ser, Tree, Ag                2                2            PM, F
2/93           2          4           Ser                           2                3             F
(MTR)  3-4/93           5          15          Ser, Tree, Cr, FA             3                2           PM, F
1/94           2          8           Ser                          2                2              F
5/94           2          9           Ser                          2                2            F, CW
2/95           3          8           Ser, Proc                    2                2            F. CW
6/95           3          8           Ser, Proc                     2                3           F, CW
1/96           2          7           Ser                          2                2              F
5/96           2          9           Ser                          2                2
Completion /      9/95           2          17          Ec, Tree                     -                -              -
Abbreviations:  Ec = Econoist; A = Agronomist; FA = Financial Analyst; Mkt = Marketing Specialist;
Tree = Tree Crops Specialist; Soc = Social Development Specialist; Sci = Plant Scientist
Ser = Agricultural Services; Cr = Credit Specialist; Proc = Procurement Specialist
PM = Project Management; F = Financing (due to shortage of counterpart contributions)
CW = Civil Works Delays
1/ Carried out by FAO/CP
13






APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AEDE MEMOIRE
14



: : | :



AIDE MEMOIRE
CONTENTS
Project Objectives and Components ...........................                             16
Implementation Timing ...........................                                         17
Achievement of Objectives ........................... 17
Implementation Experience and Results ........................... 18
Project Design ........................... 22
Bank Performance ...........................                                              23
Borrower Performance ............................ 23
Plan for Future Operations ...........................                                    23
Sustainability ...........................                                                24
Lessons Learned ...........................                                               24
Issues for Future Operations ...........................                                  25
Follow-up ........................... 25
15






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
CASHEW AND COCONU TREECROPS PROJEC
(Cr. 2050-TA)
FAO/CP Mission Aide Memoire
1.        A  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program  (CP) mission' visited Tanzania from
25 August to 13 September, 1996 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
above project. The Mission held discussions with relevant officials from the Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives (MOAC) and the Cooperative and Rural Development
Bank (CRDB). In Zanzibar, the mission was assisted by staff of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and Natural Resources. In conjunction with representatives of ODA and GTZ, co-
financiers of the project, the Mission worked closely with the Project Coordinator of CCTP, and
visited research stations, research sub-stations, Cashew Development Centres (CDC's), coconut
nurseries and seed gardens, on-farm trials, and farms in Zanzibar, and in Lindi, Mtwara, Tunduru,
Dar es Salaam, Ruvuma and Tanga regions. A wrap-up meeting was held on 11 August, 1996. The
FAO Representative, Tanzania, was briefed on the outcome of the Mission.
2.         The Mission would like to express their appreciation for the assistance given by the
officials of Government, and the cooperation of the management and staff of the project during the
Mission.
Project Objectives and Components
3.         The objectives of the project were to achieve long-term growth by increasing the
national production of cashewnuts for export, and the production of coconuts for the domestic oil
market. At the time of the mid term review, the development objective for coconut was expanded to
include increased production for domestic raw nut consumption.
4.         To achieve this, the project was to provide financing and technical assistance in support
of:
(i) expanded cashew and coconut research breeding and selection to develop higher
yielding, more disease and drought tolerant varieties/hybrids:
The Mission comprisd Tim Lamrock (FAO TCIR - Economist/Mission Leader) and Nick Richards (rreecrops Specialist - Consulteat).
Ihe ICR fbr the Agricultural Export Rehabilitaion Project (Cr 195-TA) was prepared during the same mission.
16



(ii) the development and operations of seven Cashew Development Centres and three
coconut seed farms for the propagation and dissemination of quality planting
materials;
(iii) the production development through the training of extension and research staff,
and the dissemination of cashew and coconut production packages;
(iv) the management and coordination of the cashew improvement and coconut
development programs;
(v) the cashew input supply and local marketing support;
(vi) strengthening credit facilities in the southern cashewnut production areas in the form
of a pilot credit scheme managed by CRDB.
5.        The project was to build on the research programs supported by ODA under the Cashew
Improvement Program and GTZ under the National Coconut Development Program, with the
research components of the project continuing to be cofinanced by ODA and GTZ for cashew and
coconut respectively. The total cost of the project was estimated at US$ 42.2 million, as was to run
for 6 years.
Implementation Timing
6.        The project was signed in July, 1989 and became effective in January, 1990. The mid-
term review for the project was carried out in March/April, 1993. The project closed on 30 June,
1996 and, whilst the project accounts have not yet been finalized, it is estimated that approximately
US$ 8.7 million of the original US$ 25.1 million (the equivalent of SDR 5.9 million of the original
SDR 19.4 million) will be canceled.
Achievement of Objectives
Cashew
7.        During the project's life, cashew production has experienced a rapidly increasing
production profile, rising from 19,275 tons in 1988/9 to 81,729 tons in 1995/6, representing an
annual increase of 29%. Whilst there were other positive external factors that contributed,
particularly progress with marketing reforms, the project has made a significant contribution to this
increase. With liberalization of marketing, the farmgate share of the export price increased from 42%
in 1988/89 to 66% in 1994/95. This has fallen back to 56% in 1995/96, due to fewer but larger nut
traders operating in the market and price fixing. Foreign exchange earnings have increased from US$
12.9 m in 1989/90 to US$ 79.5 million in 1995/96 with the value reaching the farmers themselves
going from US$ 7.5 to US$ 44.1 over the same period. Theiefore the main development objective of
the project has been met. However, the objective of the development of higher yielding, powdery
mildew disease (PMD) resistant varieties has not yet been fully met. The cashew breeding program
17



has identified five potentially PMD tolerant clones but these have not been fully evaluated and are
not available for growers. This aspect requires continuing research.
Coconut
8.        The lack of data on domestic and export coconut production volumes of freshnuts, copra
and coconut oil, both before and after project completion, makes assessment of production
performance difficult to gauge, other than by specific surveys (see below) which have established an
increase in the area of plantings and increased nut production per palm, together with increased
income derived from coconuts, following the project completion. Thus the project objective has been
achieved on the production side. However, the poor performance of introduced dwarfs and hybrids
has not resulted in higher yielding, lethal disease (LD) resistant palms obtained from commercial
seed gardens as expected. On the processing side, progress towards reduction in vegetable oil imports
by increased domestic coconut oil production has been marginal, but other factors outside the project
control have contributed to this, and are discussed later.
Implementation Experience and Results
General
9.        Project performance up to the time of the mid-term review was mixed, but generally
below expectations. This resulted from mainly poor project planning and management, and the
inability of Government to provide its share of counterpart funds. There were difficulties in running
two units, the CIP and NCDP, under the one project with different planning and reporting
procedures. The comment was made at appraisal that the management costs associated with the dual
approach were high. Also, up to that time, the lack of progress with the restructuring and
strengthening of the capacity of CRDB had a serious effect on the implementation and success of the
pilot credit scheme. However, good progress was being made with the research components although
the results were not as expected. For cashew, the SAR assumption that research would have produced
a PMD resistant variety in a six year period which would have been widely planted proved to be
unrealistic. This had implications for the continued use of sulfur for mildew control. For coconuts,
the hybrid trials indicated insufficient resistance to lethal disease and drought for this avenue to be
pursued, and the research concentrated on selection of East African Tall (EAT) material with
crossing for disease resistance, in a long term breeding approach.
10.       The mid term review outlined a clear plan of action to progress the project back onto
target. This 3 year plan included revised procurement, civil works and training plans, redefinition of
roles in extension, credit, and CDC's, and the finalization of a new management structure for the
project. Category items were altered to reduce the Government's required contribution in view of the
financial constraints faced by Government. Since the mid term review, implementation has been
satisfactory although some project activities have been delayed or scaled down in view of the
continuing shortage of Government counterpart funds.
I.       The mechanism for the flow of funds was considered by the project's management to be
unsatisfactory, particularly the flow of both IDA funds and counterpart funds through Government
18



agencies. In addition delays were experienced due to cumbersome procedures in the Central Tender
Board.
12.       One aspect of implementation that the mission notes is the flexibility of the project to
change the approaches to problems in the light of changing circumstances. This flexibility indicated
a working cooperation between the financing agencies, the Government and the project staff that has
contributed to the project's success.
13.       The project has made a significant contribution in building up the level of research
expertise through the training provided by the different sponsors of the project. There now exists a
capacity to handle current and future areas of research which remain incomplete at the end of this
project.
Cashew
14.       The achievement of the project were many. Seven CDC's were established during the
project and distributed appropriately in all cashew districts. These act as a source of seed and scion
wood, and provide technical and extension assistance. There has been significant progress in cashew
grove rehabilitation/rejuvenation in all districts, which has included undergrowth removal, weeding,
removal of unproductive trees, replanting, infilling, top working and sulfur usage. Farmers'
awareness of the concepts of tree productivity and the need to maintain groves has been realized.
Cashew trees are no longer treated as bush crops in the main areas. Following the extension and
research program, farmers now have a choice of alternative rehabilitation programs which they can
choose according to cost considerations. There have been significant improvements in the capacity
and efficiency of extension and research staff following the appropriate training access at all levels.
The mass production of training materials, and greater involvement in courses and workshops for
both staff and farners was achieved. All positions in the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) at
Naliendele associated with the project activities are now localized to continue on post-project efforts.
The availability of input supplies has been boosted dramatically by the project and approximately
25% of farmers were able to obtain blowers, sulfur and other inputs to control PMD.
15.       Against the satisfactory progress of the project, there remains the problem of PMD
control. The cashew breeding program has identified five potentially PMD tolerant clones but these
have not been fully evaluated and not generally available for growers. PMD control is still achieved
by sulfur dusting. This is not sustainable and may lead soil acidification. Alternative systemic
fungicides have been tested at Naliendele and registration applications made, but these require water
for usage, which is often in very short supply. This makes this approach unworkable in the short term
for widespread use. Therefore the PMD issue is not resolved and requires continuing investigation.
The time frame for the development of appropriate varieties was always unrealistic, and the research
efforts must continue to build on the work of the past.
16.       There are no hybrid seed gardens operating due to incomplete selection of clones for
PMD screening. CDC's are releasing mainly seed from polyclonal seed gardens. The variability of
progeny is thus likely to be high, which could lead to a significant percentage of lower productivity
trees. There have been no trials to test the variability of hybrid seed progeny. More effort should have
been placed on releasing clonal material, and assisting nurseries to promote them.
19



17.       Cashew research is now totally dependent funding derived through the export levy.
There is no continuing external assistance. Cashew research is under threat of funding due to failure
of funds to be released from Cashew Board of Tanzania (CBT) to Cashew Research Fund (CRF); to
date for 1996/97 only 25% of export levy funds have been received by the CRF for the 1995/96
season. A major shortfall exists to continue the research program. The final disbursement for
$500,000 of IDA funds, contingent upon the successful levy operation, is still pending.
18.       The future of four CDC's up for leasing is uncertain due to lack of progress within
MOAC. The lease agreements were to be approved by MOAC and actual transfer accomplished by
June 1996.
19.       The issue of soil fertility has only partially been investigated, and fertilizer response trials
are in progress in some districts. Greater consideration to nutrient removal via harvesting and the ability
of soils to supply N, P and K needs to be evaluated for farmers yield levels in a nutrient balance
approach. Research station trials should include some annual soil and leaf sampling and interpretation.
Input supply
20.       The major inputs imported were sulfur and blowers. A total of 12,131t of sulfur was
imported against a target of 16,812t. A total of 3529 blowers were imported against a target of 4945.
By 1996 sulfur was available through the Tanzania Fertilizer Company, and adequate supplies of
blowers were on hand from previous years. The responsibility for the control and organization of
supply of inputs to be used to boost cashew production rested with the Commercial Services Unit
(CSU) of the project. Initially the project was set up with funds (US$ 2.2 million) provided to CRDB,
to create a three tier system of importers, stockists and farmers. The primary recipients of funds were
importers, who took advantage of the funding in the first two years. However, repayment rates were
poor, as was the case with the stockists. The CRDB in 1994 decided to tighten its credit policy by
demanding land titles for loans. This proved difficult to implement and CRDB stopped advancing
credit for these purposes. Farmers were used to receiving inputs from the government, and thus
believed they were not required to repay the cost of cashew inputs set up under a government
organized project. Overall, the CRDB phase of the input supply project failed as the remaining
stockists were not able to sell all stocks and, as further credit was refused, the stockists set up
informal credit arrangements with farmers.
21.       From 1994 on, Regional Input Funds (RIFs) were created, funded by a levy of TShs 10
per kg of nuts sold by each farmer. A great deal of management and organizational problems were
experienced with the RIFs, together with the actual fate of funds levied. Up to 1996 however, it is
estimated that TShs 750 million resides in the funds collectively, vhich is more than adequate for
input requisitioning for the coming season.
Pilot Credit Scheme.
22.       The Pilot Credit Scheme as designed was not successful. This was mainly as a result of
the lack of progress in improving the capacity of CRDB in the early years. Repayment experience
was poor due to lack of disciplined follow-up on the part of CRDB, a weak culture of repayment on
the part of the primary societies and adverse seasonal conditions. At the time of the mid-term review,
20



this component was considered to be progressing well and further support was diverted to boost the
scheme both for farmers and rural stockists. However, due to the major restructuring of CRDB in
1993/4, and its worsening financial position, no further loans were provided.
23.       Whilst the mid-term review did allocate additional resources to this component, the
major restructuring initiated by the Banking and Financial Institutions Act (1991), and followed
through with the involvement of DANIDA, did not produce identifiable capacity strengthening until
late 1995. CRDB was unable to provide new or additional lending to existing clients as a result of
restrictions placed on it by the Bank of Tanzania. The recovery performance of the scheme was
mixed. Overall, the implementation of the credit component was unsatisfactory. However, the
mission notes the project's efforts in supporting the development of 8 Savings and Credit
Cooperatives (SACCOs) in the major cashew producing areas.
Coconut
24.       The project had many achievements on the coconut side also. The Chambezi research
station was overhauled and re-opened for breeding and disease screening trials. Variety trial testing
at three distinct LD intensity and rainfall sites commenced in 1991, with survivors of the best
imported hybrids crossed with selected EAT palms, to try to identify LD resistant materials and
drought tolerance. In agronomy research, limiting nutrients for a range of soil types were identified,
benefits of hand weeding were established and preferred palm spacings were determined. In farming
systems research, 88 on-farm trials were set up throughout the country to evaluate and demonstrate
intercropping and returns. Farmers were trained in selecting mother palms for seednut collection and
nursery practices for seedling production. Private nurseries were established and these now supply all
seednuts for planting, apart from farmers own selections.
25.       The development of an integrated pest management (IPM) system for the Coreid bug
(Pseudotheraptus wayi) was implemented and demonstrated to farmers. In disease control, LD
mycoplasma-like organism (MLO) screening continued, and MLO was isolated from insects
suggesting a possible insect vector (yet to be identified). Studies on the rate of LD spread in three
districts were initiated. Molecular biology research to complement LD resistance screening
commenced. The construction and operation of embryo culture facilities for coconut culture were set
up.
26.       The promotion of small scale coconut oil and copra processing was initiated by the
development and distribution of 35 rotary graters, 11 ram presses and 6 bridge presses, especially to
village women's groups.
27.       A  major, independent impact survey was conducted by Ashimogo et al.(1996)
concluding:
(i)  average production rose over the project period from 25-30 nuts to 3040 nuts per
palm.
(ii) annual palm replanting rate over all districts was 2% following the project
commencement.
21



(iii) income from palm activities increased by about 20% relative to pre-project.
28.        Against a background of satisfactory project outcomes, a number of issues remain
unresolved or were inadequately promoted. Despite the research efforts, there is no solution in sight
to improve LD resistance and drought tolerance. Hybrids failed to perform as expected at the start of
the project. With this, the focus of the research was diverted away from hybrid trials. The failure of
hybrids also meant the abandonment of the two hybrid seed gardens. However, there are areas where
hybrids have performed well, e.g. Ng'apa valley, but little work was done on identifying other
potentially suitable areas. Whilst Zanzibar is at present LD free, the focus of coconut breeding in
Zanzibar should reflect LD resistance work on the mainland.
29.        There was little emphasis placed on coconut processing. There has been some effort in
disseminating information and equipment for small-scale processing but it is generally not
widespread. The low levels of local processing results in lost opportunities for foreign exchange
savings and the reduced value of coconut products. Against this however are factors such as the
current global oversupply of palm oil and its resulting low prices.
30.        Although IPM control of the Coreid bug was demonstrated, the necessity for farmers to
thin their palms for the planting of host trees reduces the uptake of these practices. There also
remains the requirement to control antagonistic ants with ant attractantlinsecticides.
31.        Problems of administration and co-ordination were experienced in integrating the NCDP
extension program into the National extension service. The effectiveness of village extension officers
(VEOs) was a particular cause of concern, especially in Zanzibar.
32.        Soil sampling and fertility evaluation has not received continuous assessment, thus the
importance of nutrition issues in other programs is not clear. Earlier work had established limiting
nutrients but was not followed up in the project. The approach now should be to evaluate a nutrient
balance/auditing approach to farmers' blocks to determine the sustainability of zero fertilizer
application practices.
33.        The marketing reforms experienced in the mainland have not taken place in Zanzibar,
where the relative importance of coconut is higher. The operations of the Zanzibar State Trading
Company, the sole buyer and exporter of coconut products, have prevented free market prices and
incentives to develop for coconut products.
Project Design
34.        The mission feels that the design of the project was satisfactory at the time of appraisal
and, as mentioned above, was altered both formally at mid term review and during the regular
supervision of the project during the last three years. However, the period required to achieve the
expected results of the research were underestimated. Research programs for treecrops are long term
and mechanisms for sustaining research efforts following donor-supported projects are crucial.
22



35.       Breeding programs for tree crops require a minimum of 10 years. The mission feels that
it was optimistic to expect the breeding objectives to be reached and the hybrid seed gardens to be
established, given the failure of imported palm materials. Whilst it appears that failures were not
manifest at the pre-project stage, however some allowance for palm failures in a dry environment
should have been made. On the cashew side, the assumption of successful screening for PMD
resistance and higher yield, the establishment and evaluation of clones under different environments
and the development of subsequent hybrids together with their evaluation as progeny trials all require
very much more than 6 years. The project proposed Accelerated Varietal Improvement System
failed to implement its very tight and compressed sequence of events.
36.       The weaknesses in the capacity of CRDB to successfully manage a credit program were
recognized at appraisal, but the activities under the Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project
(AERP) to restructure CRDB were relied on to minimize this risk. In the event, the AERP failed to
have an impact on the capacity of CRDB to successfully manage this component. The mission also
feels that, complementary to the expected increase in production in both cashew and coconut, the
design should have included a strategy and support for processing.
Bank Performance
37.       The mission feels that IDA performance has been satisfactory at design, appraisal and
supervision, as demonstrated by the effectiveness of the alterations made at mid term review, and the
frequent and close contact that the supervision teams have kept with the project.
Borrower Performance.
38.       The perforrnance of the Borrower has also been satisfactory. Apart from the difficulties
in providing counterpart funds for project activities, obligations on reports, accounts and legal
covenants have generally been satisfactory. The Borrower also completed its contribution to the ICR
process by the preparation of the "Project Completion Report", and participated in the ICR mission.
Plan for Future Operations
39.       ODA support for cashew research has been completed and an internal review of the
research activities will be carried out in November, 1996. Future research is to be funded through the
export levy on cashew (CRF), to be channeled through the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI).
GTZ have an agreement to continue support to coconut research until 2000. All extension programs
and activities will be handled through National Agricultural Extension Project II (NAEP II), a US$
33 million IDA- supported project to commence in 1996, to cover extension of all agricultural
research and development in Tanzania. Three CDCs will be maintained under Naliendele and ARI
with the other four being placed into the private sector. Seedling production will be continued on the
established private nurseries.
23



40.        The project has prepared a plan for the redeployment of professional staff that have been
trained and gained experience under the project, as well as a plan for the deployment, continued use
and maintenance of the assets.
Sustainability
41.        In the light of the above, support to treecrops extension and coconut research will be
continued. The sustainability of cashew research is dependent on the mechanisms established and the
financial accountability necessary for the collection and direction of export levy funds for this
purpose. The amount of levy collected is more than sufficient to fund in full the estimated annual
research costs. However, the current status of the research funding is of crucial concern. In the short
term, the efforts of some three years of trials may be lost if funding is not received at Naliendele
within the next few months. In the longer term, the capacity built during the current and preceding
cashew projects, and the considerable effort and investment on the part of all financiers of this
project is at risk of being lost. The experience with funding cashew research will have flow-on
effects into other agricultural research areas.
42.        Providing revenues are sufficient, seedling production among private farmer nurseries
and polyclonal seed and scion production on the leased CDCs should be sustainable.
43.        As regards, the credit component, the liability for the PCS and input supply credit is
being transferred from CRDB to the Ministry of Finance, but further efforts on the part of CRDB to
recover outstanding loans is unclear. The outlook for the survival and development of SACCOs is
promising at this stage.
Lessons Learned
44.        The key lessons learned from the project were as follows:
* It was important to allow some flexibility in the activities of the project, consistent with the
overall themes and objectives, to address changing circumstances and priorities. Close
supervision plays an important role;
* The reservation expressed at appraisal conceming the cost effectiveness of the dual
management structure for the project was justified;
* The mechanisms for procurement and disbursement continue to cause problems for project
implementors;
* The project was not long enough to achieve the research objectives. Research projects,
especially for treecrops, are of much longer time horizon than 6 years, especially where
plant breeding is involved. Greater evaluation of pre-project results and greater allowance
for the risk of poor performance of imported plant materials should be incorporated into the
design.
24



Issues for Future Operations
45.        The mission sees several important issues that relate to future activities in coconut and
cashew research and development, which need to be addressed to ensure that the efforts and progress
of the past six years are not lost. These were discussed at the wrap-up meeting and there was general
agreement on their importance for future development for treecrops extension and research. They
are:
* the importance for continuing cashew research into PMD in the light of adverse economic
and enviromnental effects of continued sulfur use, and limited alternative control methods
in the absence of PMD tolerant materials;
* the funding arrangements for cashew research. These are crucial. Mechanisms for the
collection, accounting and allocation of research funds must be adhered to;
* the arrangements for the leasing of the remaining four CDCs, to ensure the continuing
operation of the centres after divestiture;
3 the control and usage of funds collected by Regional Investment Funds to support inputs
for cashew development;
? the future opportunities for cashew and coconut processing, and the need to provide initial
incentives to stimulate processing;
- the importance of maintaining a policy of free trade in the context of encouraging domestic
processing of cashew;
- the reduction in competition for cashew in the southern regions with the emergence of
fewer buyers, which is resulting in lower farmgate prices;
* the long term evaluation of soil fertility in the context of limited or no fertilizer usage;
* the allocation of priorities for treecrops under NAEP II; and
* the lack of marketing reforms for the coconut sector in Zanzibar with the operations of
ZSTC.
Follow-up
46.        The mission understands that all transactions will be finalized, the accounts closed and
reports prepared by the required date of 31 st October, 1996.
47.        On return to Rome, the mission will prepare a draft ICR to be forwarded to IDA by mid-
October, 1995.
25



APPENDIX B
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION TO
THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
26






CCTP - CR 2050-TA: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EXECUTIVE SUMNMARY
1.0       Project Objectives and Major Achievements
The project objectives were to achieve long term growth by increasing cashewnuts production for
export and coconuts for domestic consumption and internal vegetable oil market.
In order to achieve the above objectives, the following targets were set for projects A & B:
A         Cashewnut Improvement Program (CIP)
* Plant cashew resistant varieties - 1.5 million seedlings
* Reclaim neglected cashew trees - 9.0 million
D Cashew trees being dusted - 11% of total
 Farners dusting trees - 32%
- Farmers receiving production credit - 10,000
- Traders getting working capital from CRDB - 70
* If the above is implemented as planned cashew production would reach 67,000 tons by
1996 from 17,029 tons in 1989 ( an average increase of 15% per annum, to reach 75% by
1996).
B         National Coconut Development Program (NCDP
* Coconut nurseries to be established             1,200
* Seedlings of Improved varieties distributed to growers    1,000,000
* Selected EAT seednuts distributed                   1,300,000
* New growers recruited                                100,000
* Coconut growers advised on husbandry                  300,000
27



* Coconut replanting rate                     -             6%
* Productivity of existing palms increased    -             5%
* Farmers incomes to go up by 10%
* Researchers have found solutions to P. wayi
* Incidence of coconut wilt solved
* Coconut research integrated into MOAs - DRT.
The MTR of March 1993 initiated the following steps for effective project implementation and
sustainability after the project closure in June, 1996.
* Establishment of realistic performance indicators,
* Establishment of sustainable credit scheme to farmers and rural stockists and raw cashewnuts
procurement.
* Arrangement for a sustainable cashew inputs fund,
* Arrangement to levy cashewnuts exports to raise cashew research fund.
* To liberalize and strengthen cashewnuts marketing and to support initiatives for local cashewnuts
processing.,
* Arrangement to privatise planting material production as well as the already established Cashew
Development Centres (CDCs).
* Institutionalisation of research extension farmer linkages.
* Restructuring the management organisationa' structure and measures for capacity building after
the merger of CIP and NCDP.
1.2       Summarv of Project Major Achievements
The Cashewnuts production for export increased from 16.059 tons in 1989 to 81,749 tons in 1996, at
the project's closure date. this is about 409% increase in production. This huge increase is largely
due to effectiveness of CIP and its collaborating agents eg. liberalized marketing which raised the
farm gate prices due to competition among cashew buyers. The control of powdery mildew,
husbandry practices i.e. reclamation of neglected cashew shambas, thinning and pruning of excess
trees and branches enhanced cashew nuts production.
28



In the case of coconuts, the replanting rate grew substantially, mainly due to shortage of alternative
vegetable cooking oil. The growth was well over the estimated 6%. The productivity of existing
coconut palms also went up by more than 5% throughout the coastal belt. Coconuts are now
marketed in all major towns of Tanzania at very competitive price which resulted in the improvement
of incomes of the coconut farmers.
Details of achievements against targets can be found in the major performance indicators tables No.
1, 2, 3, 5, B, 6 and B:6.
1.2       Cashew Research
At Naliendele Research Station in Mtwara, Scientists were able to select a number of promising
clonal materials which yield higher than the local materials and have shown partial tolerance to
powdery mildew (PMD) Oidium anacardii. These clones were tested and released for cultivation by
the farmers. The plant propagation unit of CIP established seven Cashew Development Centres
(CDC's) for the distribution of scion wood materials and polyclonal seednuts production.
* Cashew research also recommended a regime of sulphur dusting of cashew trees during the flush
and flowering stage to control PMD. Other systemic fungicides are being tested and will soon be
recommended for use by cashew farmers in place of sulphur which acidifies the soil rendering it
unproductive of food crops.
* A hybrid cashew is being tested at Naliendele.
* Cashew Propagation by grafting with clonal scion materials, top working and the use of
polyclonal seeds have been included in the integrated cashew management (ICM).
The ICM is on-farm experimentation where the Naliendele Research Scientists measure the rate of
adoption of recommendation and how these are adapted to the environment. Village extension works
and division extension officers are used to monitor the adoption rates and link the villagers to the
researchers.
1.3       Coconut Research
After the failure of the imported F3 hybrids, emphasis on coconut research centred on selection of
drought/LD tolerant local materials including the East African Tall Coconut (EAT) . Up to 30
crosses between these selection to produce hybrids have been made and the F, hybrids are being
tested on stations and on farmers fields.
29



Control of the coreid bug by enhancing the red weaver ant- Oecophyla longinoda have been tested
and recommended to farmers. The coreid bug - Pseudothemruptu way, can cause a total crop loss on
severe occasions. The recommendation increased coconut production in farmers' fields by 88%.
Two EAT seedfarms were established and maintained at Chambezi on the mainland and Kidichi on
Zanzibar island. Mkuranga, Chambezi and Kifumangao research stations were expanded to include
coconut intercropping systems with various food crops grown along the coastal belt.
Research on coconut oil processing was carried out in collaboration with rural women groups on
mainland and in Zanzibar island. Women groups now produce cooking oil and soap at a competitive
price in their rural settings.
3.0       Studies Included in Project (1989 to 1996)
Seven studies were commissioned and completed during the project phase as tabulated in No.7. The
eighth study on "Alternative Cashewnut Processing Methods which was planned could not be done.
Cashew processing was liberalized and a number of CBTs Cashew Factories were liased to private
companies.
4.0       project Financing
By June 1996, the project had disbursed USD 18.3 million, about 72.9% of the appraisal estimates.
By category, CCTP had utilized USD 32,235,000/- including the local component out of
USD.42,412,000/- appraisal estimates which was subject to revisions (Table No. 4, 8A, and 8B).
5.0       Actions for Sustainabilitv after June 1996
* The project initiated the establishment of   regional inputs funds.  Inputs such as
sulphur/fungicides, motorized blowers etc. can be ordered by regional cooperatives and sold to he
participating farmers.
* Arrangement to levy cashew exports to fund cashewnut research at Naliendele. At the current
production of about 80,000 tons, up to Tshs, 600,000,000/= can be realized per season.
* A sustainable credit scheme was initiated by establishing eight savings and credit societies
(SACCO's).
* The planting material propagation was decentralized in villages and operated by private
individuals. The seven (7) CDC's will also be privatized except three which will be maintained
by the Naliendele Research station as germ plasma collection
* Cashew marketing is now fully liberalized together with cashewnut processing.
* At the end of the project, trained staff will be properly re-deployed in the Ministry of Agriculture.
30



. The research apparatus at Mikocheni's NCDP was converted into an Agricultural Research
Institute for Coconut. Germany will continue to support coconut research until the year 2000.
The govermment of Tanzania remain committed in coconut research.
31



Table No. 1: Major Performance Indicators
Cashew Improvement Program
Objective           Indicator                    Report on May 1996
Increase in Cashew  Production  increase of 15%  Achieved
production          annually,  and  75%   during
project period with 1990 as
base year
Quality    seedling, (a) Supply 65% of demand    (a)   Demand was met by a
supply and supply                                combination  of  seedlings  and
(b) Survival over 70%        polyclonal seed.   The seedling
supply could meet 82% of the
demand
(b) Survival rate at about 65% was
less than the target, which was not
achieved due to drought.
Quality Seed supply  (a) Supplying 60% of demand    (a) Meat.
(b) Germination over 85%     (b) Germination percentage was
low at about 55%. This is mainly
due to poor storage at CDCs.
Fanngate Price as %  Above 65%                    Achieved
of export pnice
Secure    sufficient Annual figures of imports. At Achieved. A levy was imposed in
input imnports to meet least 50% of the demand to be  1993 to raise funds for inputs.
demand              met                           Imports met the demand.  The
annual imports were as follows:
1992/93 1250 tons, 1993/94 1058
tons, 1994/95 3511 tons.
To provide credit to  Number provided credit      CRDB did not implement scheme
farmers, traders and                              since 1994/95 due to conditions
stockists                                        imposed by Central Bank. In the
period prior to 1994/95 CRDB gave
loans to 691 small farmers and 178
stockists.  the credit component
(PCS) was restructured; 8 SACCOs
established under a pilot initiative
and training completed.
To improve policies Process  and  Procedures  of CRDB   improved  its  lending
and  procedures  of CRDB                         procedures. After re-structuring it
lending  for  small                              will review the current procedures
credit.                                          as needed.
32



Table No. 2: Major Performance Indicators
National Coconut Development Programme
Objectives          Indicator                     Report on May 1996
Income of coconut 10%  increase in income of Estimated income increase is over 5% KAP
growers,   nutrition  farmers (1993 - 96)         96 results show similar trend
and population levels
Coconut production  (I) Coconut output increased by  (I) Output increased by 27% by 1996
and       utilization  5%
increase
(ii)  Coconut  product  use  (ii) Coconut use increased by 47%
increased by 20%
Organization        Annual  in-house   meetings, Fully executed
restructured,       technical meeting per quarter M
operations          & E operated
strengthened
Breeding   planting  15 new BTM to be developed    30 Breeders Test Materials were developed
materials  that  are                              and are being tested on farmn.
disease-resistant,
drought tolerance and
acceptable      to
farmers.
IPM  introduced  in IPM to be tested on smallholder Test laid out in 5 shambas in each region.
farmer fields       shambas in Tanga and Coast IPM    increased   coconut   production
regions                      substantially (88%).
Improved  cropping  Two general surveys (1993 and  (I) KAP  1993 carried out and results
systems tested.     1996) to be carried and results published. KAP 1996 results published June,
analyzed.  Annual surveys on  1996.
cropping systems to be carried
out and analyzed.            (ii) 8 seasonal surveys conducted since 1991
and results documented in technical reports
Availability    of Planting rate to be increase by  The 1994 results show 4.6%  increase in
improved   planting  2% per year, 6% in 3 years   planting rate. The KAP 96 report show 5.6
material                                          % increase in planting rate.
33






APPENDIX C
COFINANCERS' CONTRIBUTIONS TO
THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
34






EXECUTIVE SUIMMARY
1.        An ODA/DRT commissioned team conducted an end of project review of the Cashew
Research Project (CRP) in south-east Tanzania, which was based at Naliendele Agricultural
Research Institute and started in 1990. The team made an in-depth study of the large volume of
documentation provided by DRT, CRP and ODA and reports by various consultants and
monitoring missions. The report of the Mid-Term Review 1994, which recommended clearer
definition of the goals of the CRP and instituted clear output indicators, guided deliberations of the
team.
2.        Interviews were held with staff at DRT and Naliende associated with both cashew
research and agriculture more generally. GOT extension staff, buyers and local government and
NGO officials were also seen and the British High Commission was consulted. On site visits were
made to the principal cashew growing areas as well as research sites and farmers' fields to view the
standing crop and work in progress, and to talk to farmers and extension works.
3.        The overall view formed by the team was of a project which has produced sound and
useful technical knowledge already contributing to the improvement of the cashew crop and the
objectives of the Cashew Improvement Programme, of which it was an integral part. Detailed
information on the understanding of the constraints to production has been obtained and knowledge
of alleviation of scientific issues associated with the drop in cashew exports from a high of 145,000
tons in 1973/74 to a low of 16,552 in 1986/87 has been produced. The findings have the potential,
in a satisfactory financial, policy and marketing environment, to contribute effectively to cashew
improvement and production in Tanzania.
4.        Significant progress has been made in understanding the role of cashew in farming and
household systems, in farmers' current cashew production practices and in their attitudes to options
for cashew upgrading.
5.        Sound recommendations have been made on a range of issues but particularly on the
control of the principal yield constraint, Oidium anacardii, Noak, powdery mildew disease. This
disease is now far better understood and a 'basket of options' on its control is available to farmers
after testing in farmers' fields. Superior seed and vegetative material is already flowing to farmers.
6.        A breakthrough has been made in the participation of farmers in setting research
agendas and assisting in research. Farmer-to-farmer interaction has been demonstrated in the ten
villages involved in the integrated cashew management programme (ICM).
7.        The potential for future farmer-to-farmer sharing of knowledge and spread of improved
practices, and for impact from an extension service assisting in the spread of approaches and
techniques, leads the mission to believe that there is scope for substantial improvements in
household economies in S. E. Tanzania.
35



8.        Despite the encouraging progress, many scientific problems and potential constraints
need to be further investigated. Progress has been moderate, but sound, on production of stable
and uniform lines of cashew for planting in farmers fields-although superior seed and vegetative
material is already being grown as a result of the work on farm. Much remains to be done on the
physiology of this complex crop as well as on entomological aspects. Existing horticultural
techniques have been further developed and passed on to farmers and used to upgrade cashew
fields. Some additional techniques are being developed to assist breeders in their search for
insights into the genetic composition of existing material and to speed the production of new
improved and stable lines. Scope exists for introduction of material from elsewhere, preferably
after further knowledge of and identification of genes of value to Tanzania.
9.        There is much also to be done in learning from the work between researchers and
farmers, in relation to the profitability of cashew production practices to farmers in differing socio-
economic circumstances. Important work also remains to be done in learning from the innovative
approaches taken in researcher-extension-farmer links and in farmer-to-farmer diffusion.
10.       Good use was made of consultancies. The well planned, staggered and executed
training programme has resulted in an obvious esprit de corps, and confidence in the Tanzanian
scientists. They now fully run the project since the seamless and efficient handover in May 1996.
The project continues to add to the knowledge store.
11.       The team is concerned about the current and future financial support for the project.
This has been delayed. If the substantial and encouraging progress made and the gains from the
training and motivation of Tanzanian scientists are not to be dissipated, immediate steps need to be
taken to remove uncertainty and assure funding. It has already been agreed that research should be
funded from the cashew levy, which in turn depends on cashew export production, but this has not
happened.
12.       There is also cause for concern on the tendency to increase the number and amount of
taxes imposed on the crop by both central and local authorities. The levels of local tax vary within
S.E. Tanzania and their use is not transparent to the farming community. There are potential
serious implications for farmgate prices and producer incentives, if enthusiasms to tax cashew
production are not curbed, and if cashew communities do not see benefits in social investment and
services from the district cashew levy.
13.       In summary, a well targeted and generally well conducted programme has been
implemented harmoniously by a motivated joint Tanzania/UK group.
14.       We thank all who contributed so willingly of their time and patiently answered our
queries.
36



APPENDIX D
TABLES
37



Table 1. The Distribution of Cashew Nut Production (tonnes) by Years and Districts in Tanania
Region    1986/  1987/  1988/  1989/  1990/  1991/  1992/  1993/  1994/  1995/
87      88     89      90      91      92      93     94      95      96
Mtwara    6415  12423  11007   8548  14860  22125   17943  21834  27534  49107
Lindi      2667   2594   1613    846   3254   5613   7435   5944   9064  11585
Ruvuma       180    550   1354    319   1336   2854   5165   4981   6640   7997
Coast      5335   5811   2157   3541   5723   5068   2333   7468  14693   6858
DSM          252    987   2402   1872   2830   3827   4131   3576   3371   1591
Tanga       1661   1782    621   1837   1622   2271    2122   2148   1500    978
Other         42    181    121       96    221       97     194    655   1600   3613
TOTAL    16552  24328  19275  17059  29846  41238  39323  46603  64402  81729
Source: MOA Tanzania
Table 2. Economic Statistics Relating to Tanzanian Cashew Production, from 1986 to 1996.
Period    Average Farmgate    FOB  price  % Farmgate /  Farmer value  Export value
price Sh/kg       Sh/kg          FOB price      $US mill.      $US mill.
1986/87        17               97            22             6.72          30.78
1987/88        26              110            27             8.72          31.90
1988/89       47               112            36             6.17          17.26
1989/90       72               145             58            7.45          12.90
1990/91       94               185            59            16.70          28.04
1991/92      114               202            56            20.11          35.64
1992/93      134               340            43            17.02          39.91
1993/94      224               372            60            21.67          36.13
1994/95      325               492            66            39.37          60.53
1995/96      302              540             56            44.07          79.09
Source: MOA, CBT
38



Table 3. Distribution of Cashew Research and Extension Activities
from 1990 to 1996.
Region        No. of    No. of      No. of     No. of     No. of     No. of      % of
Research  sub        CDCs       demonstr-  nurseries   verificat-   national
stations   stations             ation       & propig-  ion plots    production
plots      ation
plots
Mtwara                1          1         3         218                      3          60
Lindi                            1          1        116                      1          14
DSM                                                   74          7                       2
Morogoro                                               6         23                       5
Ruvuma                                      1                                 1          10
Coast                                       1                    94           1           8
Tanga                                       1                    16           1           1
TOTAL                1          2          7         414        140           7         100
Table 4. Distribution of Coconut Research and Extension Activities from 1990 to 1996.
Region      Research    Demonstra    On farmn     Research     Nursery      Processing
Verification   tion plots   evaluation    stations   and        facilities and
plots                   trials                  seednut         groups
distributors
Tanga                38           13          40           2          175  9 village groups,
graters
DSM                11          20          37                      245  3 village groups,
graters
Coast              39          34          27            3         220  2 village groups,
graters
Morogoro             41          35                                  180  3 village groups,
graters
Lindi              13          20           5            1         165
Mtwara              20          13            5                      75
Zanzibar            20           20           9            3          45  37 Ram presses
and 34 graters
distributed
TOTAL               182          155         123           8         955
39



Table 5. Cashew Inputs Availability Since 1986.
Project stage        Sulfur tonnes      Sulfur tonnes    Blowers (pieces)           Blowers
Target             Actual              Target             Actual
CPIPP
1986                          50                 50                  50                 50
1987                          50                 50                  50                 50
1988                         360                360                 260                260
1989                         402                402                 280                280
CIP
1990                        1500               1500                 700                700
1991                        2700               2700                 505                505
1992                        1250               1250                1000               1000
CCTP
1993                        1500               1250                 600                484
1994                        3000               1058                 500                200
1995                        3000               3511                 500                0**
1996                       3000                   *                 500                0**
TOTAL                     16,812              12,131               4945               3529
* for 1996, the Tanzania Fertilizer Company will supply Sulfur for the first time
* Since 1995 there are thought to be sufficient blowers in stock and on farm replacement is slow.
Source: Commercial Services Unit, MOA
Table 6. Summary of staff training and development under CIP/NCDP/CCTP.
Training Type                            CIP            CIP          NCDP            NCDP
Target         Actual          Target         Actual
Ph D degree                                2              5               0              4
Masters degree                            18              10             16              5
Bachelors degree/ diploma                  6              2              24              11
Short courses, workshops, study           58             36             216             27
tours, consultant assistance
Major consultancies                        5             4*               1              1 *
TOTAL COSTS                   997,300                       1,142,400
* An extra 3 major consultancies relevant to both CIP and NCDP were completed. One consultancy on
cashew processing is outstanding.
40



Map - Distribution of Major Cashew and Coconutt'roject Activities
ma _
RWANDA             ,                      MARA                         K E N  Y A
GERA   \  MWANZA   f
BURUNDI        -,                   AI                                  Mohi
SHINYAGA  0ShInyonga
- - - / -   - -    N        ARUSHA         ' MOSHI
\ y     1-')  _}               /~-      /                              /AI    
KIGOMA                               /     .(\      (  
-             1 2   O fizbora  Slngida  '                                    N_
(           I              7a~~~~~~nga~
TABORA                                                                  a TANGA   /
l    \    >~~-  -                    t~                                                ZargI /  l
t  \    - \                    [~~ ~~~~ /                                     - ,-_ =?i*f
l  /                                 /           C    O0odoma  (          \     \   \ 
\ \/RUKWA                        SINGIDA        DOOOMA   /
ovhi/L   -X/ ~  / I             oMoygoro  (L9
Tan ganJkl-    /                                   -                        4    2      bYDL4NM
_ _    Irbe,aaO   )     |_( _NDIj
A     ,~~~COAST        7&fUla
M Mao                     "MOROGORO                            O S
ZAMBIA
; ZA M 31 ^ +; g- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L I N 0 1   
-   IntomaUond boundary                                Song a  
--Regionci bowxkxmy     N                                                      M      6
e Coun" fcpt aR U W U M A                                                  \ MTWARA
0   Regiocapt                 / ALA                                3
0S8   0 Igp   2401n KM2                                              MQZAMBIQUE
ANOI
KE NYA '             LOCAJION OF         . LOCATION OF
CoCs                  COCONUT RESEARCH SWIONS1EED FARMS
I Em-     Y   1 Mww   IFPongwo
_:.;w.:;_:-S3:^ .......... X ...  2 Mkuranga           2 Salm
su :z ,,  3 ,tut:,, rE2<   /   3 Tundw.u             3 Bambl
.,.1@,.1- jql-,,'t*'~=;<,-     4 Mangaol             4 Chamb0
2AkE . o:.-+i-g?i-2as-eW;#xlfX5 Nyogo                SMcagawa
L  a .7. :-rw }li'bNlk.- .\  E      6  Nanyonga            6 Kiurangoo
r9Y IL- 7 w J  _:  _,.:;.                7 Nalbn Ocb  7MaHa
, t W !<@<^* a
t     -;Z . 4Ar,  -a






Il



IMAGING
Report No.:         18359
Type:     ICR



