Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2050 TA
              (Cashew and Coconut Treecrops Project)
                              between
                    UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 28, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2050 TA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  28,  1989,  between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (the Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administration
of the  United  Kingdom  intend  to  enter  into  a  memorandum of
understanding  (the  ODA  Memorandum  of  Understanding)  for  the
purpose of making  available  goods  and  services to the Borrower
with a value of about  six  million three hundred thousand dollars
($6,300,000) (the ODA Grant)  to  assist  in financing part of the
Project on terms and conditions set forth in the ODA Memorandum of
Understanding;
Page  2
     (C)  the Borrower has requested  from the Federal Republic of
Germany a grant  in  an  amount  approximately  equivalent to five
million  seven  hundred  thousand  dollars  ($5,700,000)  (the FRG
Grant) to assist in  financing  part  of  the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in an  agreement (the FRG Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and FRG; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MALD" means the Borrower's  Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development;
     (b)  "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
     (c)  "MLGCCM"  means   the   Borrower's   Ministry  of  Local
Government, Community Development, Cooperatives and Marketing;
     (d)  "CIP" means  the  Borrower's  Cashewnut Improvement Pro-
gram;
     (e)  "NCDP" means the Borrower's National Coconut Development
Program;
     (f)  "CRDB" means the Cooperative  and Rural Development Bank
established and operating  pursuant  to  the Cooperative and Rural
Development Bank, Act 1971, as amended from time to time;
     (g)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "TCMB" means the Tanzania Cashewnut Marketing Board;
     (i)  "GTZ" means Gesellschaft  fur Technische Zusammen Arbeit
of FRG;
     (j)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  May  10  and 11, 1989 and May 31,
1989 between the Borrower and the Association;
     (k)  "TCC"  means   the   Technical   Coordinating  Committee
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (l)  "RALDO"  means  a  Regional  Agricultural  and Livestock
Development Officer within MALD;
     (m)  "EAT" means  the  East  Africa  Tall  indigenous coconut
variety; and
     (n)  "TSh" means Tanzanian Shilling, the Borrower's currency.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in  various currencies equivalent to nineteen
million   four   hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 19,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open  and  maintain  in  dollars,  three  special  accounts  in  a
commercial bank (the CIP Special Account, the NCDP Special Account
and the CRDB Special Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the  Association.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of, the
Special Accounts shall be  made  in accordance with the provisions
of Schedules 5, 6 and 7, respectively, to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1996, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  June 15 and December 15
commencing December  15,  1999,  and  ending  June  15, 2029. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on June 15,
2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
Page  4
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern  Ireland  is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project, except
for Parts  A.5  and  A.6,  through  MALD  with  due  diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural practices,  and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services  and other resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon  any  of  its other obligations,
the Borrower shall cause CRDB  to  carry  out Parts A.5 and A.6 of
the Project, with due  diligence  and efficiency and in accordance
with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide promptly as  needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for these Parts of the Project.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  relend  the  proceeds  of the Credit
allocated to Parts  A.5  and  A.6  of  the  Project, except for an
amount  equivalent  to  $700,000  for  institution  building under
Part A.6 which shall be made available as a grant to CRDB, under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower
and CRDB under terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion which shall, inter alia, provide for a term of 10 years at an
interest rate of at least  8.4%  per annum including four years of
grace.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such  manner as to protect the interests
of the Association and to  accomplish  the purposes of the credit,
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     (e)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower  shall carry out or cause CRDB
to carry out  the  Project  in  accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
Page  5
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The  Borrower  shall establish separate Project
Accounts for CIP and  NCDP,  into  which  it  shall deposit at the
beginning of each quarter, its share of Project costs.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall  cause  CRDB  to appoint a
Pilot Credit Scheme Coordinator, under terms of reference and with
qualifications satisfactory to  the  Association, to undertake the
day-to-day implementation of the Scheme.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain and cause CRDB
to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Accounts for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
Page  6
               related withdrawals.
     Section  4.02.  The  Borrower  shall  by  November  30, 1989:
(a) announce an increase in the producer price for cashewnuts; and
(b) furnish to the Association  a  plan of action, satisfactory to
the Association, for the  improvement  of the marketing system for
cashewnuts.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
     Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause CRDB:
     (a)  to take out and  maintain  with responsible insurers, or
to make  other  provision  satisfactory  to  the  Association for,
insurance against such risks and in  such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice;
     (b)  to carry on its  operations  and  conduct its affairs in
accordance  with  sound  administrative,  financial,  and  banking
practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers;
     (c)  at  all  times  to  operate  and  maintain  its  plants,
machinery, equipment and other  property,  and  from time to time,
promptly as needed,  to  make  all  necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
banking practices; and
     (d)  to carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.05,
9.06 and 9.07 of the General  Conditions (relating to use of goods
and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  and  records  and  reports
respectively) with respect to Parts A.5 and A.6 of the Project.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, the right
of the Borrower to withdraw the  proceeds  of the ODA Grant or the
FRG Grant made to the  Borrower  for  the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled  or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
     (b)  Subparagraph (a) of  this  paragraph  shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes  to  the  satisfaction of the Association
that: (i) such suspension,  cancellation, termination or prematur-
ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement;  and (ii) adequate funds for
the Project are available  to  the  Borrower from other sources on
terms  and  conditions  consistent  with  the  obligations  of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the   Borrower   has   appointed   the   CIP   and  NCDP
Coordinators;
     (b)  the  Borrower  has  established  separate  CIP  and NCDP
Project Accounts referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and
deposited the initial amounts therein;
Page  7
     (c)  the Borrower  has  established  TCC  in  accordance with
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
     (d)  the Association has  been  notified  that all conditions
precedent to the initial disbursement of the ODA Grant and the FRG
Grant, other than the  effectiveness  of this Agreement, have been
fulfilled.
     Section 7.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  8.01.  The  Minister  at  the  time  responsible for
finance of the  Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 9111
          Dar es Salaam
          Tanzania
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                TREASURY                         41329
                Dar es Salaam
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2033
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                          By /s/ A. M. Hyera
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Page  8
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:                                80%
     (a)  for Part A             1,690,000
          of the
          Project
     (b)  for Part B               460,000
          of the
          Project
(2)  Vehicles and                                100%
     equipment:
     (a)  for Part A             3,920,000
          of the
          Project
     (b)  for Part B             1,310,000
          of the
          Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'                                100%
     services
     (a)  for Part A             2,460,000
          of the
          Project
     (b)  for Part B             1,690,000
          of the
          Project
(4)  Training:                                   100%
     (a)  for Part A               460,000
          of the
          Project
     (b)  for Part B               310,000
          of the
          Project
(5)  Agricultural                                100%
     inputs:
     (a)  for Part A               150,000
          of the
          Project
Page  9
     (b)  for Part B               230,000
          of the
          Project
(6)  Agricultural                  850,000       100%
     Credit for
     Chemicals and
     equipment
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7)  Incremental recurrent
     operating costs:
     (a)  for Part A               690,000       75% up to
          of the                                 June 30, 1992;
          Project                                55% up to
                                                 June 30, 1994;
                                                 and 20% there-
                                                 after
     (b)  for Part B             1,380,000       75% up to
          of the                                 June 30, 1992;
          Project                                55% up to
                                                 June 30, 1994;
                                                 and 20% there-
                                                 after
(8)  Pilot Credit                1,460,000       85%
     Scheme: goods
     and services
     financed under
     Sub-loans
(9)  Refunding of                  460,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(10) Unallocated                 1,880,000
                                __________
     TOTAL                      19,400,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments for expenditures  under  Category (6) until the
Borrower and CRDB have entered  into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
referred to in Section 3.01 (c); and
     (c)  payments for expenditures under  Category (8) until: (i)
the Borrower  and  CRDB  have  entered  into  the  Subsidiary Loan
Agreement referred to in Section 3.01; and (ii) CRDB has appointed
the  coordinator  for  the  Pilot  Credit  Scheme  referred  to in
Section 3.04 to this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  increase cashewnut
exports and reduce vegetable oil  imports by increasing cashew and
Page  10
coconut production.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Cashew Improvement Program
1.   Research
     Carrying out of  cashew  research  at the Naliendele Agricul-
tural Research  Institute,  under  three  basic  programs for crop
protection, varietal improvement and agronomy.
2.   Planting Material Development
     Establishment  of  seven  multipurpose  Cashewnut Development
Centers to produce  clones,  scions  and improved polyclonal seeds
through the construction of  offices  and acquisition of vehicles,
farm equipment, materials and supplies and training.
3.   Production Development
     (a)  Development  of  cashew   specific  extension  services,
through subject  matter  specialist  training  of  MALD's existing
extension staff and  on-farm  demonstrations  of cashew production
packages.
     (b)  Construction  of  rural   housing   and  acquisition  of
vehicles, office equipment  and  materials  and training for above
activities.
4.   Management and Coordination
     (a)  Strengthening of  the  CIP  Management  and Coordination
Unit through the provision of training and technical assistance in
areas of monitoring and evaluation, and financial management.
     (b)  Construction of offices and staff houses and acquisition
of vehicles and office equipment for above activities.
5.   Input Supply
     Making   credit   available    through   CRDB   to   licensed
importers/traders for the importation of inputs, and equipment for
pest and disease control of cashew trees.
6.   Pilot Credit Scheme
     Establishment of a  pilot  credit  scheme for smallholders to
strengthen  CRDB's  credit  facilities   in  the  southern  cashew
production areas of Mtwara, Lindi  and  Ruvuma and to test revised
lending policies and procedures.
Part B:   National Coconut Development Program
1.   Research
     Continuation  of  the  Borrower's  National  Coconut Research
Program, with up-dated  work  approaches  through the provision of
specialists, training and overseas study tours for counterparts.
2.   Seed Nut Production
     (a)  Preparation of new  improved planting materials, through
the development and operation  of  a  combined EAT disease testing
and  multiplication  coconut  center  and  the  operation  of  two
existing coconut hybrid seed farms in Mafia and Zanzibar.
     (b)  Construction of  field  offices  and storage facilities,
and the acquisition  of  machinery,  equipment, planting materials
and production inputs for the above activities.
Page  11
3.   Production Development
     Development of a  coconut  specific extension service through
subject matter specialist  training  of  MALD's existing extension
staff and on-farm demonstrations of coconut production packages.
4.   Program Management and Coordination
     Strengthening of the  National  Coconut Development Program's
Management and Coordination Unit within MALD.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in Tanzania may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be  procured  under  contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of  $750,000,  may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on  the  basis  of  comparison  of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Chemicals and equipment under  the  Category (6) of the table
in Schedule 1 to  this  Agreement,  may  be procured in accordance
with the standard  commercial  practices  of  the importer of such
goods.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contracts  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Page  12
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be  made  out  of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedules 5, 6
and 7 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Coordination
1.   The Borrower shall  appoint  Coordinators  for  CIP and NCDP,
with  qualifications   satisfactory   to   the   Association.  The
Coordinators  shall  be  responsible  for  implementation  of  the
Project and shall report to  the Principal Secretary MALD, through
the Commissioner for  Agriculture  and  Livestock Development. The
Borrower shall appoint  a  Deputy  Cashew  Coordinator for Mtwara,
with qualifications satisfactory to  the Association, within three
months after the Effective Date.
2.   MALD's existing  management  team,  chaired  by the Principal
Secretary and comprising  all  heads  of  Department  shall be the
advisory body for the Project  and  shall set policies, review CIP
and NCDP progress and  their  annual  work plans and budgets. They
shall meet as often as is required but at least twice a year.
3.   The Borrower shall  establish  a joint Technical Coordinating
Committee  which  shall  be   chaired   by  the  Commissioner  for
Agriculture and Livestock Development. The Committee members shall
be  the  CIP  and  NCDP  coordinators,  the  NCDP  coordinator for
Zanzibar, MALD's cashew and coconut research coordinators, the ODA
cashew research team  leader,  the  Director  of Naliendele, GTZ's
coconut research leader, RALDOs  in  Project  Area, CRDB, TCMB and
representatives of  MLGCCM.  The  TCC  shall  annually  review the
cashew and coconut  development  programs,  the cashew and coconut
research programs and  the  support  services  required by CIP and
NCDP prior to  their  presentation  to  MALD's Management Team. It
shall meet at least once every six months.
Page  13
4.   The Borrower shall continue  to  maintain the Cashew Research
Coordinating Committee  with  membership  from Naliendele's cashew
research team,  CIP's  senior  staff  for  field operations, which
shall be chaired by the cashew research coordinator of MALD.
Annual Work Plans
5.   Annual work plans  shall  be  prepared  for  both crops inde-
pendently by the  Coordinators,  and  reviewed  annually by MALD's
Management Team and the  Association.  The Annual Work Plans shall
include inter alia: (a) a  review of Project Implementation in the
previous year; (b) a  detailed  description  of work to be carried
out in the  following  year,  with  objectives, staff and farmers"
training, monitoring and  evaluation  activities etc; (c) require-
ments  for  additional  staff  and  inputs;  (d)  requirements and
arrangements  for  technical  assistance,  and  local  and foreign
training; and (e) a budget and financing plan.
6.   The Borrower shall commencing  1990,  furnish the Annual Work
Plans to the Association by March 1 in each year, and shall there-
after implement such plans,  taking  the Association comments into
account. The Annual Work Plans for the first Project Year shall be
furnished to the Association by November 30, 1989.
Mid-term Review
7.   A joint mid-term Project review shall be undertaken not later
than three and  a  half  years  after  the  Effective  Date by the
Borrower, the Association, ODA and GTZ. Such review shall be based
on  a  mid-term  review  report   prepared  by  the  Borrower,  in
accordance  with   terms   of   reference   satisfactory   to  the
Association.
Research
8.   The CIP Research will  be  carried  out at Naliendele's Zonal
Agricultural and Livestock Research and Training Center under four
basic programs,  namely,  crop  protection,  varietal improvement,
agronomy and socio-economic.
9.   Seven multipurpose  Cashewnut  Development  Centers  shall be
established in order to make  new tolerant planting materials from
Naliendele rapidly available. The  CDC's  shall produce clones and
scions initially and  later  polyclonal  seeds.  The centers shall
also function as  demonstration  training grounds and verification
test sites for Naliendele's Cashew Research Program.
10.  Demonstration of integrated  more  diversified cashew produc-
tion packages shall  be  initiated  in  about  two hundred village
clusters.
11.  The Coconut Research Program  will be continued with up-dated
work  approaches.  The  coconut   station  at  Chambezi  shall  be
rehabilitated.  The  emphasis  of  the  research  program  will be
shifted to on-farm  varietal  testing  and demonstrations with the
assistance of extension agents and coconut growers.
Input Supply and Marketing Support
12.  The Borrower shall  cause  CRDB  to  open  a  credit line for
licensed importers/traders to procure and distribute sulphur dust,
blowers and protective clothing  in  the cashew production area. A
marketing and credit specialist shall  be provided for three years
to assist in this  and  also  in  the  Pilot Credit Scheme for the
southern cashew production areas. The Sub-loans made by CRDB shall
be for a term of one year  at the interest rate established by the
Bank of Tanzania for such loans.
Pilot Credit Scheme
13.  The Pilot Credit Scheme  shall  provide  resources to test in
Page  14
selected CRDB branch  offices  alternatives  to improve the effec-
tiveness and efficiency of  CRDB's  credit delivery and management
systems. CRDB shall: (a)  increase  coverage of CRDB credit system
to  smallholders;  (b)   improve   its  policies,  procedures  and
analytical  capabilities;  (c)   establish  closer  linkages  with
primary  cooperatives  and  the  extension  system;  (d)  increase
participation  and  operational  responsibilities  in  the process
of  subloan  approval,  supervision  and  portfolio  recovery; and
(e) separate credit  for  supply  and  distribution of inputs from
production credit to farmers.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                        CIP Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a),
(2) (a), (3) (a), (4) (a), (5)  (a),  and (7) (a) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time  to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $750,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the CIP Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments  out  of  the  CIP  Special  Account  shall  be made
exclusively  for  eligible  expenditures  in  accordance  with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the CIP Special  Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of  the  Authorized  Allocation   and  subsequent  withdrawals  to
replenish the CIP Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the CIP Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the  CIP Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits into the  CIP Special Account at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the  CIP  Special  Account   such  amount  as  the
                Borrower shall have  requested  and  as shall have
                been shown by said documents and other evidence to
                have been made out of  the CIP Special Account for
                eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
Page  15
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the  Borrower out of the CIP Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the CIP Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Credit  allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the CIP Special Account  as  of  the  date  of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  CIP Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an  amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of  this  Schedule;  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the  Association  may  request;  or  (B)  deposit  into the CIP
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into the CIP Special  Account  shall be made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit orrefund, as the case 
may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding in the CIP Special Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the CIP Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                       NCDP Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  16
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (b),
(2) (b), (3) (b), (4) (b),  (5)  (b)  and (7) (b) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time  to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $400,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the NCDP  Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out  of  the  NCDP  Special  Account  shall  be made
exclusively  for  eligible  expenditures  in  accordance  with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the NCDP Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of  the  Authorized  Allocation   and  subsequent  withdrawals  to
replenish the NCDP Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the NCDP Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the NCDP Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits into the NCDP Special Account at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the  NCDP  Special  Account  such  amount  as  the
                Borrower shall have  requested  and  as shall have
                been shown by said documents and other evidence to
                have been made  out  of  the  NCDP Special Account
                for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the NCDP Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the NCDP Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Page  17
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Credit  allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the NCDP Special Account as  of  the  date  of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the NCDP Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an  amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of  this  Schedule;  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association  may  request;  or  (B)  deposit  into the NCDP
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into the NCDP Special  Account shall be made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding in  the  NCDP Special Account will not
be required to cover  further  payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the NCDP Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                       CRDB Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (6) and
(8) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time  to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $750,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the CRDB  Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out  of  the  CRDB  Special  Account  shall  be made
Page  18
exclusively  for  eligible  expenditures  in  accordance  with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the CRDB Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of  the  Authorized  Allocation   and  subsequent  withdrawals  to
replenish the CRDB Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the CRDB Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the CRDB Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits into the CRDB Special Account at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the  CRDB  Special  Account  such  amount  as  the
                Borrower shall have  requested  and  as shall have
                been shown by said documents and other evidence to
                have been made out of the CRDB Special Account for
                eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the CRDB Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the CRDB Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated  to  the  eligible  Categories,   less  the  amount  of  any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Credit  allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the CRDB Special Account as  of  the  date  of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  19
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the CRDB Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an  amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of  this  Schedule;  (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association  may  request;  or  (B)  deposit  into the CRDB
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into the CRDB Special  Account shall be made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding in  the  CRDB Special Account will not
be required to cover  further  payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the CRDB Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accord-
ance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
