Report No. PID10501
Project Name                     East Timor-Second Agricultural Rehabilitation...
Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Social Assistance, Natural Resources
Management,
Agriculture Irrigation, Extension,
Agro-Industry and
Marketing,
Project ID                       TPSF73911
Borrower(s)                      EAST TIMOR TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
Implementing Agency(ies)         DIVISION OF AGRICULTURE AFFAIRS (DILI, EAST
TIMOR)
Address: Agriculture Affairs Division.
Dili, East Timor
Contact Person: Serge Verniau
Tel: 618-8942-2204
Fax: 618-8981-5157
Email: untaetagri@yahoo.com
Environment Category             B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Updated                 July 26,  2001
Projected Appraisal Date         July 23, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 5, 2001 (Regional Vice President
Approval)
1. Country and Sector Background
One of the poorest regions in Indonesia before the disruption, East
Timor now faces the challenge for extensive rebuilding, while at the same time
establishing its political, economic and social structures. In the violence
that followed the referendum for independence in September 1999, it was
estimated that over 75 percent of the population of 880,000 was displaced, and
that 70 percent of physical infrastructure was destroyed. Even before the
disturbances the territory lagged behind the rest of Indonesia in most social
indicators, with 30 percent of the population living below the poverty line.
Recent estimates suggest that 50 percent of the population now live on less
than US$1 a day.
Prior to the 1999 referendum, agriculture and its support activities
(agro-processing and agricultural input suppliersindustries) employed about 75
percent of the workforce, contributed to 26 percent of Gross Domestic Regional
Product, and accounted for 90 percent of foreign exchange. Coffee, some
sandalwood and some live cattle were exported. Government subsidies on
fertilizers, fuel, and rice helped rice producing areas, but little was done
to assist the uplands (where the majority of the rural poor lived), and an
overstaffed and underpaid government service contributed to the disempowerment
and dependence of rural communities. Traditional systems of management and
community self-reliance, such as tara bandu, were actively discouraged during



this period.
The agricultural sector was significantly affected by the events
following the 1999 referendum. Livestock for meat and traction, farm and food-
processing machinery, farmers and fishers' houses and tools were destroyed,
and food stocks and seeds were looted. Most staff of the Ministry of
Agriculture and of the food agency (BULOG) left the territory. Overall, the
agricultural gross domestic product (GDP) is estimated to have declined by 49
percent in 1999 relative to the previous year.
The first Joint Agriculture Donors' Agriculture Mission in November 1999
reviewed the priorities for the transitional period and recommended a
"community empowerment and governance program" and identified several priority
areas for the reconstruction of agriculture. These included support to: (i)
vulnerable groups, including the victims of violence and those who had lost
their productive assets; (ii) restoration of basic agricultural
infrastructure, including irrigation systems and access roads; (iii)
restoration of livestock; and (iv) provision of agricultural services. The
first Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP I) was designed to respond to
these priorities. The Project provided for (i) restoration of priority assets
(livestock and farm tools) and emergency vaccination; (ii) rehabilitation of
small irrigation schemes and access roads; (ii) establishment of Pilot
Agriculture Service Centers (PASCs), community radio stations; and (iii)
establishment of a Project Management Unit at DAA and capacity building.
The second Agriculture Donors' Mission in March-April 2001 reviewed the
overall impact of agricultural sector assistance during the post-emergency
phase. While most projects were at their early stages, emergency food relief,
seed multiplication, and rapid impact programs appeared to have been well
received by rural households. Cattle and buffalo vaccination, and community-
based activities such as the rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes,
access roads, and agroforestry also appeared to have been successful. However,
the impact had been uneven. The focus of past assistance on irrigated areas
left upland farmers, among the most vulnerable, largely unassisted. Rural
markets were not yet working well, and farmers cited problems with
availability of inputs, lack of transportation, equipment, high prices of
fuel, and lack of distribution networks. In general, the post-referendum
period has not been easy for East Timorese farmers.
Against this background, the Division of Agriculture Affairs (DAA)
formulated a number of priorities for the agricultural sector. These include:
(i) ensuring food security through improvements in production of staple crops;
(ii) promotion of internal markets; (iii) improvements to farming systems in
upland areas that increase resilience and decrease environmental degradation;
(iv) reducing deforestation through watershed management; (v) creating a
sustainable income generating fisheries sector; and (vi) promoting greater
agricultural productivity, with special emphasis on coffee.     The Joint Donors
Mission further recommended: (vii) strengthening community self-reliance
systems; (viii) moving towards demand-based assistance; (ix) investing in
partnerships with nongovernmental organizations and NGOs; and (x) integrating
agriculture into broader regional development. It was recommended that future
programs of donor assistance be structured along three overlapping phases:
-       Year 2001: Rehabilitation phase, (2001) with a continued focus on
restoration of assets and rapid rehabilitation of services, infrastructure and
- 2 -



supplies for farmers to jump-start agricultural production;
-       Years 2001-02: Transition phase, (2001-2002) with a focus on helping
establish essential agricultural and natural resources policies and
regulations, and help smoothen the transition from a heavily subsidized sector
to one with limited government funding; and
-       Years 2001-onward: Sustainable Development phase (2001-on) with a long-
term focus on sustainable agriculture, income generation, and natural
resources management.
Future assistance would be targeted at participatory programs
encouraging community self-reliance, options for diversified cash income
sources, and traditional systems of natural resources management.
The Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP II) has been designed
to directly respond to these evolving strategic priorities. East Timorese
officials, DAA staff, other donors, and key NGOs were closely involved in the
project design, which benefited from two discussion workshops in Dili in April
and May 2001. The cooperation and understandings established with DAA provide
a firm basis on which to achieve the program's objectives. The project is
part of an umbrella US$9 million grant from the Trust Fund of East Timor
(TFET) to the agricultural sector which also includes a US$1 million
allocation to the rehabilitation of the Hera Fishing Port, managed by the
Asian Development Bank.    The project description below excludes the Hera
Rehabilitation component of the ARP II program.
2. Objectives
Objective and Duration. The objective of the ARP II Project is to improve the
food security and increase agricultural production of farm families in the
program areas. The implementation period is expected to last 27 months
(September 2001 to December 2003).
Locations. The Project will be implemented in selected sites in the 13
districts of East Timor, except the pilot village-based activities under
Component 1 that will be implemented initially in 12 pilot villages (or sucos)
located in six districts: Baucau, Covalima, Dili, Lautem, Liquica, and
Manufahi. If successful, the pilot activities will be expanded to about 30
additional villages (sucos) in these districts.     Similar activities are
expected to be funded by other donors in the remaining districts.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Rationale for Bank Involvement. Although no Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
has yet been prepared for East Timor, the November 2000 Transitional Support
Strategy proposed a short-term focus on social safety nets, and agriculture
and private sector recovery. It included assistance to East Timor in preparing
for independence through macro-economic and baseline social data, analysis of
key policy and options, and capacity building. It stressed the need to build
local ownership of the development process at all levels (including wide
consultation with East Timorese leadership and civil society), a more
effective donor coordination, and sequencing activities to match East Timor's
capacity and political developments. The Project proposed is fully consistent
with this strategy. It combines a focus on short-term recovery (rapid cash
-3 -



infusion programs through infrastructure rehabilitation, stimulation of local
markets through rehabilitation of access roads, and provision of market
information) and longer-term sustainable development strategy. Interventions
such as village grants to strengthen community self-reliance, establishment of
farmers' links to markets and inputs, and training of Village Animal Health
Workers are aimed at building resilience among farm households and smoothen
the transition to a future with scarce government revenues. The Program will
also support agricultural policy and strategy studies aimed at providing the
new Government with a range of options on which to base future policy
decisions.
4. Description
Project Description. The Project will have four components:
(a) Component 1: Pilot Participatory development and natural resources
management (estimated cost: US$1.0 million). This component will pilot
strengthened natural resources management practices that are expected to
increase the resilience and self-reliance of poor communities to external
shocks (economic, market, climatic). The community will initially target 12
pilot villages (sucos) in the upland and coastal areas of Baucau, Covalima,
Dili, Liqui6a, Lautem, and Manufahi. To ensure early success, pilot
communities should have a known history of sound local governance and strong
traditional leadership, and be willing to contribute voluntary labor and local
materials as their in-kind contribution to the Project. If successful, these
initial pilots would be expanded to about 30 sucos. The project would provide
small grants (US$1-$10,000, with a maximum of US$20,000 per suco) against
proposals suggested by the communities themselves. The menu of activities,
primarily related to natural resource management, could include such
interventions as community nurseries, small woodlots, seed storage facilities,
agroforestry, small scale aquaculture, and support for traditional systems of
natural resources management. The Project would finance the costs of
facilitation, training, workshops, community to community visits, village
grants and other operational costs associated with the implementation and
monitoring of the activities.
(b)  Component 2: Rapid infrastructure rehabilitation     (estimated cost:
US$2.8 million). Under this component, the Project will rehabilitate about
2,100 hectares of community irrigation schemes, seven larger irrigation
schemes covering 1,500 hectares that have suffered light-to-medium damage, and
approximately 100 kilometers of farm-to-market roads. The improved irrigation
and strengthened agricultural practices in newly rehabilitated schemes will
help increase agricultural production and benefit farmers by ensuring that
sufficient water arrives to the fields. Rehabilitation of access roads is
expected to help facilitate the local marketing of agricultural products. This
component will also provide technical assistance and training to about nine
Water Users Association (WUA), and conduct a feasibility study for major
damaged schemes. The Project will finance civil works contracts (many of which
directly with communities), services, training, and operational costs.
(c)  Component 3: Services to farmers    (estimated cost: US$3.0 million )
Under this component, the Project will provide essential services (such as
basic market information and vaccination) to help farmers bridge transitional
difficulties associated with lack of information, shortage of cash and poorly
working markets. Under   the   Information to Farmers sub-component,    the
- 4 -



Project will support an information program aimed at the specific needs of
farmers (e.g., market and climatic conditions, timing of vaccination
campaigns, and technical advice). It will link DAA with sources of relevant
global information by establishing a small Liaison Office with international
centers such as the Consultative Group for International Agriculture Research
(CGIAR). The     Sustainable Animal Health Services sub-component will
continue the successful vaccination of cattle, buffalo, pig and chicken
initiated under ARP I, and provide much needed on-site advice and veterinary
inputs. In addition, it will pilot a system of Village Livestock Workers in
200 villages (40 percent of the villages in East Timor) to address long-term
shortages of government staff and budget.      The Pilot Agriculture Service
Centers (PASC) sub-component will provide initial support to the three
farmer-owned PASCs established under ARP I, emphasizing their links to output
and input markets. Subject to a satisfactory evaluation of these pilots, the
Project could support the establishment of an additional 2-3 PASCs. The
Project will finance civil works, services, goods, training, and operational
costs in support of these activities.
(d) Component 4: Program management (estimated cost:US$2.0 million). Under
this component, the Project will assist the future Government in making
essential policy decisions and facilitate future bilateral investments in the
agriculture sector. It will also help strengthen the DAA staff's and partner
NGOs capacity in project management and selected technical topics at both
central and district levels. This is expected to significantly enhance local
capacity in strategic planning, improve communication between national and
district staff, and increase their responsiveness to the needs of rural
communities. The policy option reviews supported by the Project are also
expected to assist the future Government in adopting informed agricultural
policies that could have wide-ranging impacts on the livelihood of rural
populations. The Project will finance policy option studies, technical
assistance, workshops, goods, training, and operational costs. An important
activity under this component will be the provision of vehicles to increase
the mobility of district-level staff and their access to remote communities.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
TFET    $US7.90
ETTA    $USO.90
Total Project Cost       $US8.80
The total project cost is estimated at US$8.8 million, of which US$7.9 million
would be contributed by the multi-donor Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET)
managed by the International Development Association (IDA), and US$0.9 million
would be contributed by the East Timor Transitional Administration (ETTA).
6. Implementation
Implementing agency. The Project will be implemented by the Division of
Agricultural Affairs (DAA) of the East Timor Transitional Administration
(ETTA) at two levels: by a Project Management Unit at the central level (see
below), and by the District Agriculture Officers (DAOs) in collaboration with
NGO facilitators at the district and field levels. Central technical support
will be provided by a team composed of the Heads of Crop Production,
Fisheries, Forestry, Irrigation, and Livestock Units of DAA.
Project management and policy support.    Overall central level coordination
- 5 -



and project management support will be provided by a Project Management Unit
(PMU) which was established under ARP I and will continue to function under
ARP II. Under the Project, The PMU will be headed by a new Director of DAA (an
East Timorese national), who would be assisted by an international Project
Management Advisor and a counterpart local Project Management Advisor. To
ensure effectiveness of project implementation and to ensure integration of
the Project more closely into the DAA operational programs, the heads of DAA's
sectoral units will be also be part of the PMU, reporting directly to the DAA
Director. The PMU would also include key project management staff and advisors
in areas such as procurement, financial management and monitoring and
evaluation. An Agricultural Policy Working Group, to be coordinated by the
DAA Director, will be established to oversee the conduct of the policy studies
and ensure that the resulting policy notes will be discussed and disseminated
to policy makers.
District and farm level implementationers. District level implementation will
be the responsibility of the District Agriculture Officers (DAO), who,
together with NGO facilitators, will be trained on participatory approaches.
Each District has staff responsible for coordinating crop production,
fisheries, forestry, irrigation, and livestock activities, but will need back-
up support from national level staff and expert advisors. Village-based
activities and implementation of village grants will be the responsibility of
participating communities. An Agriculture Working Group has been established
by the East Timor NGO Forum to ensure effective communication and to foster
Government-NGO-Private Sector partnerships.
7. Sustainability
The Project was designed to ensure the sustainability of the activities and
enhance the capacity of the implementers to maintain the new initiatives after
the Project:
(a) Village-level activities. Activities to be funded through village grants
are based on the principle that the Project will not pay for inputs (e.g.,
local labor) that communities are later expected to provide on their own.
Hence, community labor will be voluntary and a condition for receiving project
grants, and only communities that are truly committed to strengthening their
self-reliance will participate.
(b) Infrastructure rehabilitation. Light- to medium-damaged irrigation
schemes were subjected to a rigorous economic and sensitivity analysis that
took into account lower than expected operation and maintenance (O&M) and
other considerations. Only schemes that passed the sensitivity analysis were
considered for rehabilitation under the Pproject. Also, Water User
Associations will be established and the members will be trained to manage and
maintain the rehabilitated irrigation schemes to ensure their sustainability.
(c)   Animal health. The design of the Animal Health sub-component took into
account the possibility that the costs of the vaccination campaigns may be
unsustainable for a cash-strapped future government. Hence, the piloting of a
private system of Village Animal Health Livestock Workers will be carried out,
following surveys confirming the capacity of farmers to pay for this service.
(d) Agriculture service centers. The PASCs will carry inherent risks
associated with new businesses in the country. The Project will seek to
- 6 -



maximize the sustainability of the centers by establishing market links for
agricultural outputs, under the guidance of a highly experienced Farmer
Ownership Model team. This will help ensure that farmers generate sufficient
cash to guarantee cost-recovery of the inputs and services provided by the
centers. The risk will also be minimized by careful selection of PASC
managers, training of members, and establishing joint venture links with
existing businesses.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A number of lessons learned from ARP I, other post-conflict countries, and
similar agricultural and natural resource environments have been reflected in
the project design:
(a) Moving away from input provision to small grants to community groups. A
major lesson learned from ARP I was the difficulty of distributing a small
number of valuable free inputs to a large number of needy farmers. It placed
the burden of beneficiary selection and quality assurance on the government
rather than the communities, resulting in inputs that did not fully meet the
expectations of beneficiaries. In contrast, the community irrigation and
roads rehabilitation piloted under ARP I, which relied on grants for
communities to undertake their own works by providing local materials, were
better received by farmers and helped foster local ownership. ARP II will use
grant-based contracts with communities in the implementation of activities
under Components 1 and 2.
(b)  Building partnerships with civil society.    Given East Timor's limited
government budget and the small number of staff in DAA, it has become
increasingly important to build partnerships with other programs, NGOs, and
the private sector. At the same time, the transition towards a market-
efficient economy needs to be smoothened to protect the poor and the most
vulnerable. The Project will build upon this lesson by investing in a
combination of short-term strategies (emergency vaccination, rapid
infrastructure rehabilitation, and establishing links to output markets) and
longer-term development strategies (village livestock services, technology
support secretariat, and pilot village-based activities).
(c)  Inter-sectoral and inter-agency coordination.    Farmers needs are multi-
sectoral in scope. A key lesson learned from small Pacific Island countries
was that systems of governance that favored sectoral specialization faced
difficulties in meeting local needs and tended to favor supply-driven
programs. The Project will build on these lessons by forming multi-sectoral
teams for the implementation of village-based activities (Component 1), and
will provide specialized inputs once the communities have identified their
priority activities.
(d) Project management and strategic planning. A key lesson learned from ARP
I is the need to invest early on in building project management capacity at
all levels, so that interventions are planned in accordance with a more
programmatic approach and coordination between national and district staff is
ensured.
(e) Flexibility and periodic evaluations. With the socio-political situation
evolving so rapidly, ARP II had to be designed with substantial flexibility
and built-in mechanisms for periodic adjustments. An allowance has been made
for quarterly reviews during the first year of implementation to take into
account the need for periodic adjustments.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
-7 -



East Timor has lagged behind in development with a large proportion of its
880,000 population living below the poverty lie even during the Indonesian
times. Recent estimates suggest that 50 percent of the population now live on
less than US$1 a day, most of whom live in the upland marginal areas where the
environment is fragile. The Project was designed to improve the food security,
increase agricultural production of rural farm families in the project areas,
and improve the resilience and self-reliance of these communities to reduce
their vulnerability to economic and environmental crisis situations. The
Project will support community-based rehabilitation of priority irrigation
schemes and rural access roads and larger irrigation schemes that were damaged
during the disruption period. It will support some activities aimed at
stimulating rural markets and improve poor farmers' access to production
inputs, agricultural services and information.
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The Project has been classified as a Category "B"
Project. An environmental analysis was conducted for the Project in May 2001.
The expected environmental impact is as follows:
(a) The scale of the pilot village activities, under Component 1, will be
small and expected to have no significant negative impact on the environment.
In fact, the improved water and land management introduced by the Project
should help improve environmental conditions in the uplands. All activities
proposed by communities would be screened to ensure their environmental and
social soundness, including lack of impact on cultural property and absence of
known outstanding land claims. As the proposals would originate from the
communities, the component is not expected to involve any land acquisition or
resettlement. A standard clause on land acquisition and resettlement,
however, has been included in the Grant Agreement. The social assessment
carried out during implementation should help identify potential vulnerable
groups in upland areas which may need special outreach to receive information
and benefits from the Project.
(b) The civil works associated with the rehabilitation of existing irrigation
schemes, under Component 2, may have a local and temporary impact on the
environment, primarily during the construction phase. The rehabilitation of
works will bring back into operations existing schemes that are presently
starved of water. Since irrigation water is generally diverted from river
flows, the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes will not significantly affect
ground water supply. The PMU will request the Environment Protection Unit to
carry out periodic monitoring of water quality in these schemes. In addition,
the PMU would ensure that mitigation measures for light-to-medium damaged
irrigation schemes would be included in the terms of reference for consultants
supervising the works, and in the terms of reference for the feasibility study
of major damaged irrigation schemes. The rehabilitation of access roads will
be undertaken only on existing roads and would not enlarge or lengthen them.
Hence, the impact on the areas served by these roads are expected to be
minimal and mainly due to increased traffic.
(c) The establishment of the PASCs, under Component 3, will improve farmers'
access to farm inputs and support services. The Project will provide training
to agriculture staff on integrated pest management, and provide information
and training to farmers on the safe and appropriate uses of pesticides and
fertilizers. Any pesticides to be procured under the Project, through the
- 8 -



PASCs, will be in accordance with the guidelines in Operational Policy 4.09,
which bans the procurement of toxic Class 1 pesticides under World Health
Organization Guidelines and with the UNTAET Draft "Regulation on the
importation and use of agricultural chemicals in East Timor".
11.     Project Benefits:
The following benefits are expected to accrue to rural families:
(a) Under Component 1, the target population will be 4,400 rural households
in 12 pilot village    (sucos)  in Baucau, Covalima, Dili, Liqui6a, Lautem, and
Manufahi Districts. If successful, the expansion of the pilot activities may
benefit up to 10,900 rural households in 30 villages.
(b) The community rehabilitation works, under Component 2, will target about
18,500 rural families based on estimates from ARP I. Increased rice production
from seven irrigation schemes is estimated at 14,000 metric tons at full
development resulting from increased availability of water and application of
improved agricultural practices. An estimated 2,500 rural families are
expected to directly benefit from the rehabilitation of the larger irrigation
schemes.
(c) The vaccination of livestock is expected to benefit up to 97,000 rural
households (60 percent of total) based on estimates of the proportion of the
rural population owning livestock. The provision of market and agriculture-
related information is also expected to reach a large proportion of the rural
population with access to radio.
(d) Training, under Component 4, will benefit 30 DAA staff and NGO
facilitators who will be trained on project management, participatory rural
appraisal techniques, and selected technical topics (e.g., irrigation
management). Farmers, including women farmers, will also benefit from
technical assistance and training on appropriate technologies and
participatory approaches.
12. Contact Point:
Task Manager:
Sofia U. Bettencourt
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-2554
Fax:   (202) 477-2733
13. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
9



Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Note: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into
text files. However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on yoiur computer
you should be able to download the complete original version by going to:
http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/tp73911.doc.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 3, 2001.
- 10 -



