Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22546-TP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.0 MILLION
TO EAST TIMOR
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
September 28, 2001
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Papua New Guinea/Pacific Islands Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 27, 2001)
Currency Unit = US Dollar
US$ I = LC
LC = US$USS 1
US$1 = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp.) 10,015
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACIAR                       Australian Center for Intemational Agricultural Research
ADB                         Asian Development Bank
ARP                         Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
ARP II                      Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
AusAid                      Australian Agency for International Development
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CEP                         Community Empowerment Project (TFET-funded)
CFET                        Consolidated Fund for East Timor
CGIAR                       Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
COSTAB                      Cost Tables Software
DAA                         Division of Agriculture Affairs
DAO                         District Agriculture Officer
DC                          Direct Contracting
EIRR                        Economic Internal Rate of Return
EPU                         Environmental Protection Unit
ETFOG                       East Timorese Forest Officers Group
ETTA                        East Timor Transitional Administration
FAO                         Food and Agriculture Organization (of the United Nations)
FMS                         Financial Management Specialist/System
FOM                         Farmer Ownership Model
FY                          Fiscal Year (July 1 to June 30)
GDP                         Gross Domestic Product
GIS                         Geographical Information System
GPA                         Governance and Public Administration
HA                          Hectares
IAPSO                       United Nations Inter Agency Procurement Services Office
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Klaus Rohland, EACNF
Sector Manager/Director.   Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sofia Bettencourt, EASRD



IDA                         International Development Association
IS                          International Shopping
JICA                        Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KM                          Kilometer
LCS                         Least Cost Selection
LIB                         Limited International Bidding
M&E                         Monitoring and Evaluation
MOU                         Memorandum of Understanding
MT                          Metric Tons
NA                          Not-Available
NCBA                        National Cooperative Business Associations
NGO                         Non-Government Organization
NS                          National Shopping
NPV                         Net Present Value
NRM                         Natural Resources Management
OCSPR                       World Bank Procurement Unit of the Operational Core
Services Network
O&M                         Operation and Maintenance
PAD                         Project Appraisal Document
PASC                        Pilot Agriculture Services Center
PBME                        Project Baseline Monitoring and Evaluation
PIP                         Project Implementation Plan
PMR                         Project Management Reports
PMU                         Project Management Unit
PSW                         Procurement of Small Works
CQ                          Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
SEP                         Small Enterprises Project (TFET-funded)
SFB                         Selection under Fixed Budget
SOE                         Statement of Expenses
SSS                         Single Source Selection
TFET                        Trust Fund for East Timor
UN                          United Nations
UNDP                        United Nations Development Programme
UNOPS                       United Nations Office for Project Services
UNTAET                      United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
USAID                       United States Agency for Intemational Development
USD                         United States Dollars
VLW                         Village Livestock Workers
WFP                         World Food Programme
WUA                         Water Users' Association






EAST TIMOR
SECOND AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                        3
2. Key performance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       13
3. Benefits and target population                                                      13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 19
4. Indications of borrower conmmitment and ownership                                   20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           21
2. Financial                                                                           23
3. Technical                                                                           23
4. Institutional                                                                       25
5. Environmental                                                                       27
6. Social                                                                              28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  32
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      34



2. Critical risks                                                                     35
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     37
G. Main TFET Grants Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            37
2. Other                                                                               38
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          40
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         40
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          42
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    47
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         63
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   64
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               81
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       82
Table A     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al   Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C    Allocation of Grants Proceeds
Table C l   Allocation of Grant Proceeds by Component
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     98
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  101
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  102
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            103
Annex 11: Summary of the Second Joint Donor's Agriculture Mission to East Timor          104
Annex 12: Environmental Analysis                                                        111
Annex 13: Main Results of the Preliminary Social Assessment                              125
Annex 14: Summary of Technical Evaluation of Irrigation Schemes                          131
Annex 15: Project Performance Indicators                                                 135
MAP(S)
IBRD 31525



EAST TIMOR
Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASRD
Date: September 28, 2001                          Team Leader: Sofia U. Bettencourt
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland           Sector Manager/Director: Mark D. Wilson
Project ID: P073911                               Sector(s): AE - Agricultural Extension, Al - Irrigation &
Drainage, AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing, AY - Other
Agriculture, VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Social Protection; Poverty
Reduction; Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [ ] Credit    [X] Grant    [ Guarantee       [ 3 Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$8.0 million
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWERJRECIPIENT                                             0.58           0.33           0.91
SPECIAL FINANCING                                              3.10           4.90           8.00
Total:                                                         3.68           5.23           8.91
BorrowerlRecipient: EAST TIMOR
Responsible agency: UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR
Implementing Agency: Division of Agriculture Affairs of East Timor Transitional Administration (ETTA) or successor
thereof
Address: Fomento Building, Dili, East Timor
Contact Person: Cesar da Cruz; Serge Vemiau
Tel: (61)-408-255-240 (C. da Cruz); (61)409-688-930 (S. Vemiau)       Fax: (670)-390-325-120/1
Email: untaetagri@yahoo.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004
Annual    3.60        4.00       0.40
Cumulative    3.60        7.60      8.00
Project implementation period: 27 months



Year of Grant Approval      2000                         2001                              2002
Project                    ARP I    ARP II    Hera Port Rehabilitation                                    Total
Allocation
TFET Administered by:       IDA        IDA                ADB                              IDA
Financing Plan (US$M)
T'FET                        6.8        8.0                1.0               9.0           3.0            18.8
Government                   0.1       0.9                                   0.9                           1.0
Total                       6.9        8.9                 1.0               9.9           3.0            19.8
-This grant is part of the TFET 2001 US$9 million allocation for agriculture
OCS PAD Foe,, ReV 1h,r2. AXR
- 2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP II) aims to improve food security of rural
families and increase agricultural production in selected areas of East Timor.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The Project has the following key performance indicators:
Key Project outcome indicators (in Project areas):
(i)    Average rice yields increased from  1.5 MT/ha. to  3.0 MT/ha. in 5 years in irrigated areas
rehabilitated by the Project;
(ii)    Production of other food crops such as maize, cassava, and beans at 120 percent of pre-conflict
(1999) levels by the end of the Project; and
(iii)   About 20 percent reduction in the number of household with critically low food reserves by end of
the Project.
Key Project output indicators:
(i)    14 pilot upland and coastal villages assisted (up to 30 if the initial pilot villages are successful by
mid-term review);
(ii)    1,400 and 2,100 hectares of irrigated area resulting from the rehabilitation of, respectively, larger
and small irrigation schemes, and 100 km. of farm-to-market access roads rehabilitated;
(iii)   Liaison Secretariat for Consultative Group of Intemational Agricultural Research (CGIAR)
established;
(iv)    80 percent of adult cattle, buffaloes, and pigs vaccinated annually;
(v)    3 Pilot Agriculture Service Centers (PASCs) fully operational, and 2-3 new PASCs established (if
initial 3 PASCs are successful at mid-term);
(vi)   Policy options papers on agricultural policy, rural development, and forestry strategy prepared and
discussed with key stakeholders;
(vii) 30 DAA staff and NGO partners trained on project management skills, participatory rural
appraisal techniques and selected technical topics; and
(viii)  Overall, about 30 percent of the trained farners and other beneficiaries are women.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: N/A                 Date of latest CAS discussion: N/A
No CAS has been prepared for East Timor. However, the November 2000 Transitional Support Strategy
proposed (Report Number IDA/R2000-193) a short-term focus on social safety nets, and agricultural and
private sector recovery. It also called for helping East Timor prepare for independence through
macro-economic and baseline social data collection, analysis of key policy and options, and capacity
building. It stressed the need to build local ownership at all levels (with extensive consultations with East
Timorese leadership and civil society), ensure effective donor coordination, and sequence activities to
match local capacity and political developments.
The proposed Project is fully consistent with this strategy. It combines a focus on short-term recovery
(rapid infrastructure rehabilitation) with longer-term sustainable development, while smoothening the
- 3-



transition to a future with scarce government resources. The Project includes several agricultural policy
and strategy studies aimed at providing the new Governnent with a range of options on which to base
future policy decisions. The Project was prepared in close consultation with East Timorese agriculture
officers, donors, and non-governmental organizations, and reflects well the guiding principles for future
agricultural assistance of the Joint Agriculture Donor's Mission of March-April 2001 (see Section 2).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
East Timor faces the double challenge of rebuilding its young nation while establishing its new political and
socio-economic structures. In the violence that followed the September 1999 independence referendum,
over 75 percent of the population of 880,000 was displaced (either internally or to West Timor), and nearly
70 percent of physical infrastructure was destroyed. Even before 1999, the territory lagged behind the rest
of Indonesia in most social indicators, with 30 percent of the population classified as poor. Recent
estimates suggest that 50 percent of the population now live on less than US$ 1 a day.
Prior to 1999, agriculture and its support industries employed about 75 percent of the workforce,
contributed to 26 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and accounted for 90 percent of the
foreign exchange. Exports included coffee, and some sandalwood and live cattle. Indonesian Govenmment
subsidies on fertilizers, fuel, and rice helped the rice producing areas, but little was done to assist the
uplands where the majority of the rural poor lived. The overstaffed and underpaid government service
contributed to the disempowerment and dependence of rural communities, with a heavy bias towards
centralized and 'top-down' planning. Traditional systems of management and community self-reliance,
such as tara bandu, were actively discouraged and replaced with Indonesian government systems.
The agriculture sector was significantly affected by the 1999 violence. Livestock, tools, farm  and
processing machinery were destroyed, and food and seed stocks were looted. Farmers and fishers' houses
were burned and their tools destroyed. Most staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and the food agency
(BULOG) left the territory. Overall, the agricultural GDP was estimated to have declined by 49 percent in
1999 relative to the previous year, with the food crops, livestock, and fisheries sub-sectors registering the
most significant losses (Figure 1). Thus, while upland farmers remained the poorest, lowland farmers
suffered significant losses in assets.
Figure 1. Drop in GDP Contribution from Major Agriculture Sub-Sectors in 1999
Compared to Previous Year, East Timor (data from Central Fiscal Authority, ETTA)
>      11993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
a
O   60.0 -
40.0
C,, 20.0
>A'   0.0
2 -20.0-
& X -40.0
I   -60.0
-80 .0
Farm Food crops    ---- Farm nonfood crops
+   Livestock                 Forestry
---O-  Fishery
- 4 -



The United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) was established by Security
Council Resolution 1272 (S/RES/1272) on October 25, 1999 to manage the administration and
reconstruction of East Timor. UNTAET's mandate is to oversee the country's reconstruction, develop local
capacity, and prepare to hand over functions to an East Timorese administration. The process of
Timnorization started in July 2000 with the establishment of the East Timor Transitional Admninistration
(ETTA) and the appointment of five Timorese Cabinet Ministers. Funding for UNTAET comes from the
Consolidated Fund for East Timor (CFET), supporting administrative costs, and the multi-donor Trust
Fund for East Timor (TFET), managed by the International Development Association (IDA) in
coordination with the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Significant additional resources are provided
through bilateral donors and NGOs. TFET has pledged contributions of more than US$160 million for
reconstruction and development projects, approximately 45 percent of the total estimated three-year
reconstruction needs.
The first Joint Agriculture Donors' Mission (JADM) in November 1999 found that virtually the entire
pre-independence governance structure had disappeared. While this left a large void, it also presented an
opportunity for civil service reform. Policy recommendations for the transitional period were that the
aggregate numbers of civil servants should not exceed 12,200 in the first three years, of which 90 percent
will be teachers and health workers. The JADM identified several priority areas for agriculture
rehabilitation, among others (i) support to vulnerable groups (including victims of violence and those who
have lost their productive assets); (ii) restoration of basic agriculture infrastructure, including irrigation
systems and access roads; (iii) restoration of livestock; and (iv) provision of agricultural services.
The first Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP I) was designed to respond to these priorities. The
Project financed (i) restoration of priority assets such as livestock and farm tools, and emergency
vaccination; (ii) rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes and access roads; (iii) establishment of Pilot
Agriculture Service Centers (PASCs); and (iv) establishment of a Project Management Unit at the Division
of Agriculture Affairs (DAA), and capacity building for agriculture staff.
In March-April 2001, a second Joint Agriculture Donors' Mission reviewed the impact of agricultural
sector assistance during the post-emergency phase. While most projects were at their early stages of
implementation, emergency food relief, seed multiplication, and rapid impact programs appeared to have
been well received by farmers. Livestock vaccination and community-based activities, such as the
rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes, access roads, and agroforestry, also appeared to have been
successful. But the impact was uneven. Rural markets were not working well. Farmers cited problems with
non-availability of inputs (fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, veterinary services), lack of transportation and
equipment, high prices of fuel, lack of processing facilities, and high post-harvest losses. Even though local
foods (e.g. rice) were often preferred, the lack of distribution networks constrained their availability in
domestic markets. The loss of traditional safety nets such as livestock and household assets exacerbated the
vulnerability of the poorest households to crop failure and flash floods. And the focus of past assistance on
irrigated areas left upland farmers, among the most vulnerable, largely unassisted. In general, the transition
from a highly subsidized agricultural sector during the Indonesian times has not been easy for East
Timorese farmers.
Against this background, the Division of Agriculture Affairs (DAA) has fornulated the following strategic
priorities for the agriculture sector:
*       Ensuring food security through improvements in the production of staple crops;
*       Increasing production and diversification of niche crops and animal production, and promote
intemal markets with potential to provide sources of cash to subsistence communities;
- 5-



*       Improving farming systems in upland areas to increase livelihood resilience and reduce
environmental degradation;
*       Shifting from  emergency rehabilitation to longer-term  planning of promoting agricultural
productivity and greater food security;
*      Reducing deforestation through improved watershed management and training;
*      Creating a sustainable income generating fisheries sector, with emphasis on research and training;
and
*      Continued emphasis on coffee production and export.
The Government took into account two major considerations in formulating its strategy. First, agriculture
is expected to continue to be the backbone of the East Timor economy. Second, the projected non-oil and
gas revenues for East Timor in the near future are expected to be only about US$19 million, and priorities
have been given to health and education. 11 While at present East Timor is receiving substantial amounts of
foreign assistance, this aid is likely to taper off in the future. As a result, the DAA administrative budget
for FY2001/2002 will be limited to US$1.1 million, for a total of 160 staff. Many of the
Government-supported agricultural services during Indonesian tirnes may no longer be affordable in the
future, requiring further focus on partnerships with the private sector, NGOs, and rural communities.
Consistent with the Government's strategy, the Joint Agriculture Donor's Mission of March-April 2001
recommended the following main guiding principles for future donor assistance in the agriculture sector:
*      Ensuring the sustainability and market viability of all investments;
*      Addressing food security and improve targeting of the rural poor;
*      Strengthened community resilience and self-reliance systems in rural areas;
*      Moving towards demand-based assistance to rural comnunities;
*      Improving the balance of investments between irrigated and upland areas;
*      Investing in partnerships with the private sector and NGOs;
*      Moving progressively towards integrated rural development.
Future donor assistance will be structured along three overlapping phases:
*      Rehabilitation (2001) - with a continued focus on restoration of assets and rapid rehabilitation of
services, infrastructure and supplies for farmers to jumnp-start agricultural production.
*      Transition (2001-2002) - with a focus on helping establish essential agricultural and natural
resources policies and regulations, and help smoothen the transition from a heavily subsidized
sector to one with limited government funding.
*      Sustainable Development (2001-on) - with a longer-term focus on sustainable agriculture, income
generation, and natural resources management. Future assistance would be targeted at
participatory programs to encourage community self-reliance, provide options for diversified cash
income sources, and enhance traditional institutional arrangements for natural resources
management.
1/    Of the US$65 million CFET budget for FY2001/02, health and education accounted for about 38 % of the
appropriations.
-6 -



The ARP II Project has been designed to directly address these strategic priorities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a) Rapid rehabilitation of infrastructure. To assist rural communities in the rehabilitation of priority
infrastructure and provide a much needed infusion of rapid cash to rural areas, the Project will
support the rehabilitation of community-based small irrigation schemes and farm-to-market access
roads (based on the successful models developed under ARP I). It will also rehabilitate a limited
number of light- to medium-damaged schemes assessed as feasible during ARP I.
(b)   Stimulate rural markets.  The Project will help support several activities aimed at stimulating
rural markets: rehabilitation of farm-to-market roads, dissemination of market information, and
establishment of fanner-owned Pilot Agricultural Service Centers (PASCs) in areas with high
potential to serve local markets.
(c)   Strengthenfood security, community resilience, and self-reliance in upland areas. The Project
will pilot, in close collaboration with other donors, a demand-based component aimed at increasing
the resilience of isolated upland and coastal communities. This component will also promote
integrated rural development and decentralized decision making.
(d)   Invest in sustainable services to farmers. The Project will include three activities aimed at
gradually increasing the role of external partners (private sector and NGOs) in delivery of farmer
services, and decreasing the financial burden on the future Government: (a) a system of Village
Livestock Workers (VLWs) to provide simple fee-for-service veterinary assistance to local
communities; (b) expansion of the farmer-owned PASCs; and (c) establishment of a high-speed
electronic link at DAA with centers of international expertise, to allow agriculture officers and
farmers to access inforrnation and expert's advice through the web.
(e)   Analyze key policy and strategy options. The Project will fund a number of policy and strategy
studies to provide the new Governnent with a range of informed options on which to base future
policy decisions.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project will have four components:
I.     Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
2.     Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation
3.     Services to Farmers, with three sub-components:
(i)    Information to Fanners
(ii)    Sustainable Animal Health Services; and
(iii)   Pilot Agricultural Service Centers
-7 -



4.    Program Management, with two sub-components:
(i)    Policy and Strategy Development; and
(ii)   Program Management and Capacity Building
The Project costs are estimated at US$8.9 million, including a USS$8.0 million TFET grant and a USS0.9
Government counterpart contribution.
The 2001 TFET assistance to the agriculture program also includes a US$1.0 million grant for the
Rehabilitation of the Hera Fishing Port, which will be managed by the Asian Development Bank under a
separate but parallel Grant Agreement. Hence, the total TFET 2001 allocation for the agricultural sector is
US$9.0 million. An additional US$3.0 million TFET commitment is likely to become available during
2002, and would be earmarked for the rehabilitation of three major-damaged irrigation schemes designed
under ARP II. This Project Appraisal Document describes primarily the IDA-managed ARP II project. In
reality, close collaboration during negotiations, supervision and reporting is expected between ARP II and
the ADB-administered Hera Port Rehabilitation Project.
The implementation period of ARP II is 27 months (September 2001 to December 2003). This is feasible
since most activities - with the exception of component 1, the village livestock workers, and the policy and
strategy sub-component - are a logical continuation of ARP I, and the Project Management Unit (PMU) is
for the most part fully established. A brief summary of the Project is provided below.
Component 1: Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
This component will pilot an approach to strengthen the resilience of poor farming communities by helping
them improve the management of their natural resource base and diversify their sources of income. The
component will provide small grants (US$1,000-$10,000) to community groups to fund their own
proposals, against commitments of in-kind labor and materials. The proposals will be checked against a
positive and negative list of possible activities (see Annex 2). The component would target primarily
upland and coastal communities with solid local governance and traditional leadership, in seven districts
(Baucau, Covalima, Dili, Lautem, Liquica, Manufahi, and Oecussi). A similar approach will be followed
by other donors in the remaining districts.
The Project will finance the costs of non-government facilitators, services, training, workshops, and study
tours, community grants, and incremental operating costs associated with the following activities:
(i)    Provision of community grants to the Village Councils (Conselho do Suco) of pilot villages for
natural resources management and participatory development activities;
(ii)   Strengthening the capacity of farmers in pilot villages, agriculture officers, and partner NGOs in
the planning, implementation and monitoring of the community grants, through:
*     Establishment of facilitation teams and selection of pilot villages;
*     Applied technical and participatory training and cross visits;
*     Facilitation of community proposals; and
*     Monitoring and evaluation.
-8 -



Component 2: Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation
This component will seek to increase agricultural production in irrigated areas rehabilitated by the Project
and stimulate off-farm employment in selected rural areas of East Timor. It will finance civil works,
consultancy services, training, study tours, policy development, workshops, and incremental operating costs
in support of the following activities:
(i)    Rehabilitation and maintenance works on community-based irrigation schemes and farm-to-market
access roads;
(ii)    Rehabilitation works on about seven larger light- to medium-damaged irrigation schemes in the
districts of Baucau, Bobonaro, and Oecussi (assessed as viable based on economic, social,
technical, and environmental considerations during ARP I);
(iii)   A feasibility study for the rehabilitation of about three major-damaged irrigation schemes;
(iv)   Establishment or consolidation of Water Users Associations (WUAs) in the irrigated areas
rehabilitated by the Project, and development of a policy for the operation and maintenance of
irrigation schemes;
(v)    Provision of training in irrigation management to DAA and district irrigation staff, ; and
(vi)   Monitoring and evaluation (including technical audits).
Rehabilitation of small works will be implemented through direct contracts with local communities,
following the successful models developed under ARP I. Particular attention will be paid to operation and
maintenance (O&M) of all rehabilitated works.
Component 3: Services to Farmers
This component will provide essential services to farmers and help them bridge transitional difficulties
associated with lack of information, unavailability of production inputs, shortage of cash, and poorly
working markets. It will also help to gradually introduce private delivery mechanisms to address the
staffing and budgetary constraints of the new Govemment.
Sub-Component A: Information to Farmers. The aim of this sub-component will be to establish a
foundation for a more effective communication system between isolated farmers, NGOs, Government, staff
and centers of intemational expertise. The Project will finance goods, services, training, and incremental
operating costs in support of the following activities:
(i)  Development of information programs addressing the specific needs of farmers (such as market and
climate information, and timing of vaccination campaigns), and dissemination via appropriate means
of public communication, such as radio, printed and electronic media, religious venues and markets,
and mobile video units.
(ii) Establishment of a small Liaison Secretariat for the Consultative Group of International Agriculture
Research (CGIAR) in East Timor. This could consist primarily of electronic links with centers of
international expertise in modem agriculture and natural resource management, and provision of
technical assistance on demand to meet the needs of DAA staff and participating farmers.
Sub-Component B: Sustainable Animal Health Services. This sub-component will continue the veterinary
vaccination program initiated under ARP 1, while providing training and starter kits to a cadre of private
Village Livestock Workers (VLWs) to assist farmers in simple treatment of diseases and improve access to
veterinary inputs. The Project will finance vaccines, equipment, supplies, services, regulatory framework,
incremental operating costs, and training in support of the following activities:
-9-



(i) National vaccination campaigns to immunize livestock against prevailing infectious diseases (including
Swine Fever for pigs, Newcastle disease for chickens, and Hemorrhagic Septicemia and Brucellosis for
cattle and buffaloes).
(ii) Establishment of a system of private Village Livestock Workers (VLWs), including training, provision
of veterinary equipment starter kits and medicines, and assistance to DAA staff in drafting of a
supporting regulatory framework.
Sub-Component C. Pilot Agriculture Service Centers. This sub-component will help consolidate and
operationalize the three PASCs established under ARP I and expand the model to an additional 2-3 PASCs
in other locations, if the first three pilots are evaluated as being successful at mid-term. The PASCs would
be farmer-owned legal commercial entities which will be established under the guidance of a professional
Farmer Ownership Model (FOM) team. Links to output markets will be established first, and then worked
backwards to support production and processing. Two types of PASCs are envisaged: larger enterprises
specializing in particular markets (such as domestic rice market and candlenut export), and nucleus-type
PASCs linked to existing enterprises such as Cafe Timor. The Project will finance rehabilitation of offices
and facilities for the PASCs, provision of equipment (including vehicles, agricultural inputs, processing
machinery, tools, and spare parts), technical assistance and training, and incremental operating costs to
assist in the PASC's establishment and initial operation. (see Annex 2).
Component 4: Program Management
This component will help the new Government to evaluate key policy options, help upgrade core skills of
agriculture staff, and oversee the implementation of the agriculture program. The Project will finance
policy studies, technical assistance, services, workshops, goods, vehicles, training, and incremental
operating costs for the Project Management Unit (PMU) and the District Agriculture Offices in support of
two sub-components.
Sub-Component A: Policy and Strategy Development. The Project will finance four policy studies to
support decision making by the new Government that will produce the following outputs:
(i)    Policy options paper on food security, self sufficiency, and agriculture growth
(ii)    Policy options paper on rural development
(iii)   Revised forest strategy
(iv)   Coastal fisheries baseline report
Given the considerable social and political uncertainties, this sub-component will be flexible allowing for a
small amount of unallocated technical assistance to meet the emerging needs of the new Government.
Sub-Component B: Project Management and Capacity Building. This sub-component will support:
(i)    Enhancement of the operational capacity of the District Agricultural Offices through the provision
of vehicles, office equipment and furniture;
(ii)    Training, study tours, and program review workshops for agricultural staff and partner NGOs on
project management, fellowships, administration, participatory techniques, and priority technical
skills;
(iii)   Core PMU advisor positions;
(iv)   Monitoring and evaluation and general PMU and district agriculture office operations.
The table below specifies indicative targets for Project activities. It should be noted that East Timor has
just been completed its first national election, and that the social, political and economic conditions are in
- 10-



flux. This calls for a flexible, programmatic approach to Project irnplementation that can be periodically
evaluated and adjusted. For this reason, contingency allocations of approximately 15 percent have been
built into the Project design, and frequent review missions (on a quarterly basis during the first year, and on
an biarmual basis thereafter) are being planned.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                    Sector         Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
1. Pilot Participatory Development    VM                 0.94       10.5       0.90       11.3
and Natural Resources
Management:
(i) Selection of 14-30 pilot
villages
(ii) Training on participatory
techniques
(iii) Facilitation of community
proposals
(iv) Village grants
(v) Monitoring and evaluation
2. Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation: Al                2.71      30.4       2.60       32.5
(i) Community-based
rehabilitation of
about 2,100 hectares
of small irrigation
schemes
(ii) Rehabilitation of 1,400
hectares of larger
irrigation schemes
(iii) Feasibility study for 3 major
damaged schemes
(iv) Community-based
rehabilitation
of 100 kms of access roads
(v) Establishment of 11 Water
Users Associations, including
policy development for
irrigation operation and
maintenance
(vi) Training on irrigation
management
- 11 -



(vii) Monitoring and evaluation
3. Services to Farmers            AE                    3.10       34.8      2.64      33.0
A. Information to Farmers
(i) Information programs
(ii) Establishment of a CGIAR
Liaison Secretariat
B. Sustainable Animal Health
Services
(i) Vaccination of buffaloes, cattle,
pigs and chickens
(ii) Training of 200 Village
Livestock Workers
C. Pilot Agricultural Service
Centers (PASCs)
(i) Operation of 3 PASCs
(established under ARP 1)
(ii) Expansion into 2-3 new PASCs
4. Program Management             AY                    2.16       24.2      1.86       23.3
A. Policy and Strategy
(i) Agricultural policy studies
(ii) Forestry Strategy and
Fisheries Baseline studies
B. Project Management and
Capacity Building
(i) Improved transportation for
district staff
(ii) Training, workshops and study
tours
(iii) Core project management
team
(iv) M&E and project operations
Total Project Costs                    8.91     100.0       8.00     100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00        0.0      0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                      8.91     100.0      8.00      100.0
- 12 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project will support the following policy and institutional reforms:
*      Strengthened community self-reliance and decreased dependency on government assistance.
*      Gradual private sector involvement in the provision of inputs and marketing of agricultural
products (through the Pilot Agriculture Service Centers) and in the provision of veterinary health
services (through the system of Village Livestock Workers).
*      Reduced recurrent cost burden of agricultural programs by divesting further responsibilities to
communities, NGOs, and the private sector.
*      Institutional integration across agricultural sub-sectors by moving towards demand-based
programs, where community-based needs determine the type of government assistance.
*     A gradual move towards integrated rural development, with greater roles for district staff.
*      Participatory natural resources management and environmentally friendly development that
strengthen community adaptation and decrease their vulnerability to extemal shocks.
*      Strategic analysis of key policy options (food security vs. self-sufficiency, rural development, and
fisheries and forestry) to help the future Government make informed policy and strategic decisions.
*      Training for DAA staff and NGO partners on basic principles of project management, strategic
planning, participatory rural appraisal approaches, and priority technical skills.
*      Mainstreaming project activities into the programmatic priorities of the Division of Agriculture
Affairs, in close coordination with other donors.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits that are expected to accrue as a result of the Project include:
Under the Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management Component, the Project
will introduce improved natural resources and farning practices that will increase the resilience of the
resource base from rural households derive their livelihood. The target population are 5,100 rural
households in 14 villages (sucos) in Baucau, Dili, Liquica, Lautem, Covalima, Manufahi, and Oecussi. If
successful, the pilot activities will be expanded to about 30 sucos, benefiting an estimated 10,900 rural
households. Women and poor villagers will be significant beneficiaries of this component.
Under the Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation Component, the Project is expected to rehabilitate about 36
community-based irrigation schemes and 18 farm-to-market access roads, which will facilitate local
marketing of agricultural products. Assuming spill-over benefits over the entire villages, the community
rehabilitation works will target a population of about 18,500 rural households, or about 73,000
person-days of work. Increased rice production from the rehabilitation of seven larger irrigation schemes is
estimated at 14,000 metric tons at full development, with an estimated 2,500 rural families as direct
beneficiaries.
This component will also support the activities of 11 Water Users Associations (WUAs) and training of
fanner-members (including women farmers), in addition to the development of national policies clarifying
the responsibilities of the Government and communities in irrigation operation and maintenance (O&M).
The strengthened water resources management will enhance the resilience of the communities during the
dry season and improve overall efficiency of water use. While water scarcity is primarily a problem during
short periods in the dry season, there is a need to ensure that institutional systems are in place to cope with
possible future increases in demand. The O&M teams in newly rehabilitated schemes will also ensure that
sufficient water arrives in the fields. Removal of silt from the canals will be a key aspect of the work
performed by these teams.
- 13 -



The provision of market and sectoral information under the Information to Farmers sub-component is
expected to reach a large proportion of the rural population with access to radio. The vaccination services
provided by the Sustainable Animal Health Services sub-component could benefit up to 97,000 rural
households (60 percent of the total in East Timor), based on an 80 percent coverage target and estimates of
the proportion of the rural population owning chickens (about 70-80 percent), pigs (40-50 percent) and
cattle or buffaloes (20-30 percent). The system of Village Livestock Workers in 200 sucos (40 percent of
the villages in East Timor) is also expected to provide much needed on site advice and veterinary inputs. In
addition, there will be increased marketing of local agricultural products and availability of farm inputs as
a result of the activities of the Pilot Agricultural Service Centers, benefiting an estimated target population
of about 17,500 farmers.
Under the Program Management component, the Project aims to train about 30 DAA staff on basic project
management, and 30 staff and NGO partners on participatory rural appraisal techniques. This is expected
to significantly strengthen local capacity in strategic planning, enhance conmmunication between national
and district staff, and improve their responsiveness to farmers' needs. The policy studies to be supported
by the Project are expected to assist the new Government in adopting informed agricultural policies that
could have wide-ranging beneficial impacts on rural populations.
Contribution to Poverty Alleviation: ETTA's Census and Statistics Unit is currently undertaking a poverty
assessment in East Timor. No results are yet available from this study. Previous UN reports suggest that
50 percent of the population lives on less than US$ 1/day. Given the rural focus of ARP II, it is highly likely
that the proposed activities will have a beneficial impact in alleviating poverty amongst the population
living in the project areas by generating additional income and strengthening their resilience against
extemal factors such as adverse climatic conditions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management. The Project will be implemented by the Division of Agriculture Affairs or the
equivalent Ministry of Agriculture under the new Government. The Project Management Unit (PMU)
established under ARP I will be adjusted to take into account lessons of experience from the first Project,
which showed the need for a full-time Project Management Advisor, more procurement back-up, and the
need to further integrate the PMU into the operational programs of DAA. Under ARP II, the PMU will be
headed by the East Timorese Director of DAA (or an equivalent position under the new Ministry), who will
retain full signatory responsibility and authority over the Project.  He/she will be assisted by an
intemational Project Management Advisor.  The PMU  will also include East Timorese financial
management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation specialists (civil servants), who will be assisted
by intemational advisors for an expected maximum period of 12 months. All intemational advisors will be
evaluated at three months interval by the PMU Director to determine their ability to transfer skills and
knowledge to their local counterparts, who will in tum be evaluated to determine their readiness to take the
responsibilities on their own. To secure effective implementation and integrate the
Project more fully into the activities of the agriculture program, the Heads of the Forestry, Fisheries,
Livestock, Irrigation, and Crop Production sectors will form a team that will oversee closely the
implementation of Project activities and make them more responsive to the needs of beneficiary
communities, reporting directly to the Director. The PMU and the Heads of Sector team will meet weekly
to review progress, resolve implementation issues, and plan Project activities.
The PMU responsibilities will include (i) coordinating and supervising Project implementation; (ii)
monitoring project progress through regular reviews, mid-term evaluation, and monthly and quarterly
project reports; (iii) managing disbursements and the Project's Special Account and preparing withdrawal
- 14 -



and replenishment applications; (iv) financial management and assets accounting; (v) ensuring the
preparation of annual Project account audits; (vi) preparing, advertising, evaluating tenders and awarding
contracts for Project-related procurement; and (vii) ensuring effective communication between Project
stakeholders.
The Project is designed to build institutional capacity within DAA while ensuring sufficient technical
assistance to meet urgent farmers' needs. Consistent with the process of Timorisation, the Project will
support intensive capacity building for agriculture staff and NGO partners on project management,
strategic planning, and priority technical disciplines. Language training (English and Tetun) will also be
supported to improve comnmunication between national staff and international advisors. Training on project
management will be provided through progressive training modules coinciding with regular project reviews,
and allowing the best qualified staff to progress towards professional certification.
The PMU will liaise regularly with the Agriculture Working Group established by the East Timor NGO
Forum, to help foster Govemment-NGO-private sector partnerships at all levels. The Project will also
provide for NGO support in monitoring and evaluating project activities, and seek to involve agriculture
NGOs in project activities for which they would have a comparative advantage.
An Agriculture Policy Working Group, coordinated by the DAA Director (or equivalent position under the
new Ministry), will oversee the preparation and discussion of the agricultural policy studies supported by
the Project. This informal group, composed of interested stakeholders and policy makers, will act as a
'think tank' for agricultural policy in East Timor. Preparation of the revised Forestry Policy and Strategy
will be the responsibility of the Head of Forestry, while the Baseline Fisheries Assessment will be under the
responsibility of the Head of Fisheries.
Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management Component. This component will
be implemented by the District Agricultural Officers (DAOs) at the district level, and coordinated by the
Heads of Forestry, Fisheries, Crop Production, and Livestock sectors at the national level. In each of the
target districts (Baucau, Covalima, Dili, Lautem, Liquica, Manufahi, and Oecussi) the DAOs will lead a
team composed of agriculture staff from national and district levels, NGOs, members of religious
organizations, well respected traditional leaders, and representatives of relevant projects (such as the
Community Empowerment Project). This team will select the pilot communities in accordance with the
criteria outlined in Annex 2. A Facilitation Team, composed of trained agricultural staff and NGO
facilitators, will then carry out the initial consultation with the communities to determine their priorities. It
is expected that the initial facilitation will be carried out by multi-sectoral teams, which will become more
specialized once comnmunities have identified their priority activities. Forestry and Fisheries staff are
expected to play a major role in the implementation of the component.
Component I will provide grants (US$1,000 to 10,000 per activity) to community groups based on their
proposals. Annex 2 shows the type of activities that these grants could typically support. The menu of
activities has been designed to favor natural resources management activities aimed at reducing local
vulnerability. Following acceptance and signature of the community grants by the PMU Director, the
funds will be disbursed directly from the District Financial Officer to the Treasurer of the Village Council (
Conselho do Suco) in the presence of several witnesses. The Treasurer would then hand over the funds to
the final group of beneficiaries. This fund flow mechanism (described in more detail in Annex 6) is already
well established under the Community Empowerment Project (CEP). Thus, the component will utilize
existing mechanisms at the community level, while focusing on natural resources activities that would not
be normally selected under the open menu used by CEP. The similarity of approaches provides for
maximum community impact and admninistration effectiveness.
- 15-



Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation. This component will be implemented through the Irrigation Team
of DAA (or successor thereof), in close coordination with District Irrigation Officers.
Community rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and access roads will follow the procedures already used
successfully under ARP I (see Annex 6). Rather than providing grants to the communities, the Project will
use a community designated contracting entity (which could be a church organization, or farmers' groups).
Once farmers approach District Agricultural Officers for assistance, an irrigation engineer from DAA will
carry out the initial consultations, does a technical assessment of the works, estimates the costs involved,
and identifies a contracting leader or group to represent the community in the contract. DAA then signs a
memorandum of agreement-type contract with the contracting community leader for items described in the
contract (including specialized labor and construction materials). Most of the work will be carried out by
commnunity members using simple hand tools. Priority for contract labor will be given to poorest
individuals, as determined during community consultations. The DAA irrigation team will organize the
contract work and designates crew chiefs to supervise and record the work progress. Technical audits will
be conducted periodically to monitor the progress of rehabilitation and fund use.
DAA will contract out the rehabilitation of larger irrigation schemes to qualified contractors. Given the
present limited capacity within DAA for contract management and construction supervision of large works,
the Project has allocated a separate budget for contracting out the supervision and monitoring of the works.
ARP II is expected to support the establishment of eleven Water Users Associations (WUAs). The
Irrigation Unit at DAA, working closely with DAO staff, will be responsible for this activity. The Project
will finance training on participatory irrigation management and transfer techniques for establishing water
use groups and devolving operation and maintenance to community users. The Irrigation Unit will also
liaise closely with other projects (such as the ADB-supported Water and Sanitation Project and
NGO-flinded projects) to ensure the sustainability of the WUAs.
Services to Farmers. The Crop Production Unit at DAA (or successor thereof) will be responsible for
implementing the Information to Farmers and Pilot Agricultural Service Centers sub-components, using the
institutional arrangements of ARP I. Information programrming (e.g., through radio) will be contracted out
by the PMU to a specialized group. Access to technical information and expert advice from international
centers (primarily via Internet) will be coordinated by an international CGIAR Liaison Officer and a
counterpart staff, who will also be responsible for identifying short-term technical assistance from these
centers based on priorities identified from the field.
The establishment and operations of the PASCs will follow the model already piloted under ARP I. The
PASC Teams (composed of Crop Production Unit staff, DAOs, and a professional agri-business advisory
team contracted under the Project) will organize initial meetings with farners to gauge their interest and
identify business opportunities. The team will assist in preparing a business plan for each proposed PASC,
including (i) the PASC administrative structure and shareholders; (ii) marketing viability analysis; (iii)
sales and marketing strategy; (iv) proposed operations; (v) PASC management (vi) technical assistance and
training requirements; and (vii) financing plan. Candidate PASCs will have to register as a legal entity and
have a confirmed commitment for assistance of a professional manager and sales/marketing specialist
financed by the Project.
- 16 -



Upon assessment of the initial costs for services, goods and works, a lump-sum payment will be made by
the PMU to the PASC company bank account, certified by the PASC Accountant and Manager. All
services and inputs provided by the PASCs to their members will be based on wholesale prices with a small
profit margin, to be determined by the members. Given that the PASCs long-tern viability will be
dependent on the quality of its management, the Project will fund the salary for six months of a professional
Manager and Sales/Marketing Specialist, as well as management training. Lessons learned from the first
three PASCs established under ARP I will be carefully evaluated before proceeding with new PASCs under
ARP II.
The DAA Livestock Unit will be responsible for coordinating the Sustainable Animal Services
sub-component. The vaccination programs will follow the guidelines established under ARP I (see Annex
6). Prior to the start of a vaccination campaign, each District Livestock Officer prepares an action plan and
budget, detailing requirements for fuel, transport, vaccinator contracts, and materials. The Project will hire
private vaccinators (8-12 per district per campaign), who will be paid per vaccine delivered as certified by
the livestock owners using campaign monitoring sheets.
Further details on the administrative and other Project implementation arrangements are included in Annex
2. The fund flow mechanisms are outlined in Annex 6.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following altematives were considered and rejected during project design:
*     Asset distribution vs. village grants. Provision of inputs (rather than grants) was considered but
rejected during project design due to the difficulties of ensuring appropriate targeting of
beneficiaries, quality control, and distribution logistics. This was based on lessons learned from the
implementation of the Priority Asset Restoration component of ARP I (see Section D.3).
*     Disbursing village grants through the Community Empowerment Project The possibility of
implementing the Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management component
through CEP considered but rejected due to the need to focus the component on natural resources
activities (in contrast to the open menu followed by CEP), and the importance of institutionalizing
community-based assistance within DAA.
*      Continuedfocus on irrigated areas. A continued focus on irrigated areas (as originally designed
in ARP I) was rejected due to emerging evidence that upland areas where many of the poorest and
most vulnerable people dwell were being neglected by donor assistance.
Short term  rehabilitation focus.  A project focus on immediate rehabilitation needs was
considered but rejected due to the danger that this would favor infrastructure rehabilitation over
other urgent (but longer-term) development needs - such as assistance to upland areas.
Applied research. The possibility of supporting applied research activities was rejected due to the
slow progress of this activity under ARP I, and the short duration of ARP II (research activities
will require multi-season interventions).
- 17 -



*     Community radio stations. Continued support for the establishment of community radio stations
was considered but rejected given the comparative advantage of CEP in undertaking this activity at
the national level.
*     Sectoral approach to natural resources management The option of supporting a sectoral
approach to natural resource management interventions was considered but rejected based on the
need to encourage further sub-sectoral integration within DAA, and shift towards demand-based
assistance for rural communities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Note: Bank means TFET-financed
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
1. Provision of Grants for Conmmunity  Community Empowerment        S             S
Development, Targeting of Highly   Project I
Vulnerable Groups, and Assistance Community Empowerment
in Community Radios             Project II
2. US$2 million credit line (>US$ 1,000 Small Enterprises Project I  S            S
each) for agri-business
3. Provision of micro-credit to 20,000  Small Enterprises Project II  S           S
poor households.               Micro-Finance Project (ADB)
4. Rehabilitation of mnajor road  Emergency Infrastructure          S             S
networks and ports.            Rehabilitation Project (ADB)
5. District water supply repair and  Water and Sanitation Project   S             S
rehabilitation in 9 districts.  (ADB)
Second Water and Sanitation
________________  _ _ ______________   Project
Other development agencies
1. Rapid impact projects in upland    East Timor Rural Development
and lowland areas, and long-term  Program (AusAID)
rural development in Bobonaro,
Aileu, and Viqueque
2. Strengthened commnunity        Ainaro and Manatutu
linkages to agricultural services in Community Activation Program
Ainaro and Manatutu           (UNDP/UNOPS)
3. Applied seeds research         Seeds of Life Project (ACIAR)
4. Development framework for      Study of Integrated Agricultural
agriculture, forestry and fisheries, Develp. of East Timor (I and Il;
- 18 -



and pilot agricultural projects    JICA)
5. Horticulture and coffee technology  Horticulture and Coffee
and capacity building for DAA    Technology Centers in Aileu
and Ermera
6. Support to coffee cooperative and   Timor Economic Rehabilitation
coffee extension              and Develp.Project (TERAP,
USAID)
7. Assistance on sub-sector       Several projects (FAO)
strategies, reduction of
post-harvest losses, capacity
building, rice and maize
multiplication
8. Replacement of fishing equipment,  Government of China donation
farm machinery and inputs
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A number of lessons learned from ARP I, other project in post-conflict countries, and similar projects in
agriculture and natural resources (e.g., in Indonesia) are reflected in the Project design. These include:
-     Shiftingfrom input to cash provision to community groups. A major lesson leamed from ARP I
was the difficulty of distributing small numbers of valuable free inputs to a large number of needy
farmers. Such an approach puts the burden of beneficiary selection and quality assurance on the
Government rather than the communities, often resulting in inputs that do not fully meet the
expectations of the beneficiaries. By contrast, the community irrigation and roads program piloted
by ARP I - which relied on cash-based contracts to communities to undertake their own works and
provide local materials - were well received by farmers and fostered local ownership. Consistent
with these lessons and those of rural development projects in Indonesia, ARP II will use a
cash-based approach in both the Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources
Management and the Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation components.
*     Ensuring the sustainability of project interventions. During the emergency period, donor-funded
projects paid high wages for rural labor (up to US$5/day), and provided imported inputs and food.
While this approach may have been needed to provide rapid cash outlays, it is vital that the Project
will not perpetuate the culture of community disempowerment and dependence that characterized
the Indonesian period. Lessons learned from comrnunity-based programs around the world stress
the need of not paying for activities that the conmmunities are expected to do on their own once
project activities end. Hence, the Project will pilot an approach of requiring voluntary community
labor inputs as counterpart contributions to the village grants.
*     The Project will also invest in promoting operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes and in
establishing Water User Associations at the community level, to ensure local ownership and reduce
the fiscal burden on the new Government.
- 19 -



Buildingpartnerships with civil society. Given East Timor's constrained government budget and
the small number of DAA staff, it will be important to build partnerships with other programs,
NGOs, and the private sector. The transition towards a market-efficient economy needs to allow
for a 'soft landing' to protect the poor and the most vulnerable. ARP II will build upon this lesson
by investing on a combination of transition activities (emergency vaccination and rapid
infrastructure rehabilitation) while laying the foundation for longer-term sustainable development
(such as the Information to Farners sub-component, the Village Livestock Workers program,
PASCs, the Pilot Participatory Development and NRM component, and capacity building efforts).
*     Inter-sectoral and inter-agency coordination. Farmers needs are multi-sectoral in scope. A key
lesson learned from similar small Pacific Island countries is that systems of governance that favor
sectoral specialization faced difficulties in meeting local needs and tended to favor supply-driven
programs.  ARP II will build on these lessons by forming multi-sectoral teams for the
implementation of the Pilot Participatory Development and NRM component, and only provide
specialized inputs once communities have identified their priorities.
*     Project management and strategic planning. A key lesson leamed from ARP I is the need to
invest early on project management capacity building at all levels, so that interventions are planned
in accordance with a more programmatic approach and strengthened coordination between national
and district staff.
*     Flexibility andperiodic evaluations. With the socio-political situation evolving so rapidly, ARP II
had to be designed with substantial flexibility and built-in mechanisms for periodic adjustments.
An over-designed project in such a fluid situation will run a high risk of 'missing the mark' and
will soon become obsolete.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
East Timorese political leaders and senior agriculture officials have maintained great interest in the Project
and participated in key review and decision meetings. The Project design has also benefited from two 3-4
day discussion workshops held during the Joint Agriculture Donors' Mission in March-April 2001 (to
review lessons learned and identify future strategic priorities), and in May 2001 (to review the design of
ARP II). The workshops were attended by 50-70 DAA staff, District Agricultural Officers, NGO
representatives, and donors. Agriculture staff at the national and district levels were also involved in
extensive consultations with the World Bank mission during pre-appraisal and appraisal and took a leading
role in the preparation of the draft Project Implementation Plan. The cooperation and understandings
reached with agriculture staff have provided a firm basis for recipient ownership of the Project.
DAA has allocated about US$450,000 in counterpart financing to the Project for FY2001/2002 (including
salaries of staff and UN volunteers), or about 41 percent of its annual operating budget. This follows the
example of ARP 1, where DAA provided operational management support by maintaining the Project
Management Unit, financing key advisory positions, and accelerating the process of Timorization for
functional positions. DAA has also institutionalized several of ARP I's components within its core work
program, such as irrigation rehabilitation and livestock vaccination. The additional human resources,
facilities and equipment provided by DAA were vital to the continuing satisfactory performance of ARP I,
and are expected to be maintained under ARP II.
The commitment of East Timorese civil society and beneficiaries to participate in post-conflict rebuilding
has been demonstrated under ARP 1. Community involvement in the rehabilitation activities have also
clearly demonstrated their commitment and sense of ownership for sustaining economic recovery.
- 20 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In addition to managing TFET, IDA provides significant value added to the Project by:
* Using its world-wide experience (especially in other post-conflict areas) to assist East Timor in the
formulation of a sustainable rural and agriculture sector strategy.
* Assisting DAA in establishing agriculture services that match the expected future budgetary resources,
where the public sector is focused on essential Government functions, the creation of an enabling
regulatory environment, and partnerships with communities, NGOs, and private sector.
* Allowing DAA to directly contract highly qualified expert advisors that can be selected without
nationality or company constraints.
* Building the capacity of the new Government in all aspects of project design and implementation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
3 Cost benefit    NPV=US$3 million; ERR = 20.6 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
A cost benefit analysis was carried out for the Project as a whole and for individual project components.
All project benefits and costs were considered except for component 1 as described below. The assumptions
used for the analysis are outlined in Annex 4, and resulted from extensive discussions over a five week
period with farmers, DAA and district staff, economists, fiscal revenue specialists, and agriculture experts.
At 10 percent cost of capital, the overall results show a rate of return of 20.6 percent, with a NPV of about
US$ 3.0 million.
Component 1. Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
This component will provide small grants to community groups where each community activity proposal
will be assessed against a set of criteria (see Annex 2). However, without pre-determined activities'
descriptions, a cost benefit analysis cannot realistically be undertaken for this component. Nonetheless, a
supplementary project analysis was done for ARP II including all the projected costs of Component 1 but
assuming no benefits (under a worst case scenario). This analysis revealed a NPV of US$2.4 million an
EIRR of 18.4 percent for the overall Project. Given the expected benefits of this component on target
communities, it is expected that it will contribute to improve the overall Project EIRR of 20.6 percent.
Component 2. Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of light- to medium-damaged schemes. A cost benefit analysis was carried out for all seven
light- to medium-damaged schemes proposed under ARPII (see Table 1). The NPV for these schemes is
expected to be US$1.3 million with an EIRR of 36 percent. This is based on conservative assumptions that
rice yields will increase from 1.5 metric tons per hectare (MT/ha.) to 3.0 MT/ha. over a period of five
years as a result of (a) an increase in cropping intensity made possible by improved irrigation during the
dry season; and (b) improved farming practices and marketing promoted by other Project activities.
- 21 -



Production will also be enhanced by an increase in irrigated area. Annex 4 presents details of the analysis.
Table 1. Estimated NPV and ERR for Light- to medium-damaged-Medium Damaged Irrigation
Schemes
District   Scheme        EIRR NPV(lJS$)
Bobonaro  Batugade       35%      51,775
Bobonaro  Marco          46%      74,601
Bobonaro  Cailaco        25%      23,161
Oecussi   Nakftka        40%      99,902
Oecussi   Tono           43%    178,605
Oecussi   Oemathitu      39%    102,521
Baucau    Seixal Down    45%    246,934
Rehabilitation of communtiy-based irrigation schemes and maintenance. The rehabilitation of
community-based irrigation schemes is expected to yield an NPV of US$149,000 and an EIRR of 26
percent (see Annex 4). The resilience of families to external factors such as dry years should also improve
because of (i) the improved design of the schemes, allowing water into the irrigation canals even in low
flow periods, (ii) strengthened arrangements for operation and maintenance, extending the longevity of the
schemes.
Community-based roads rehabilitation and maintenance. The expected NPV for this activity is
US$88,000 with an EIRR of 22 percent. The analysis relied on data gathered from field observations by
DAA staff and standard cost-benefit analysis for similar roads in Indonesia (see Annex 4).
Rehabilitation of major damaged schemes. Subject to a satisfactory feasibility study and funding
availability, the Project is expected to finance the rehabilitation of three major damaged schemes (Seixal
Up, Maliana I, and Uatulari I) under a supplementary US$3.0 million grant to ARP II. The initial
reconnaissance of the schemes indicates EIRRs of about 17, 16, and 23 percent, respectively. These are
preliminary figures that will need to be reviewed during the feasibility study conducted under ARP II, and
which have not been included in the overall EIRR of the Project.
Component 3. Services to Farmers
Information to farmers. The effects of these activities were modeled in the economic analysis by assuming
that they will contribute to the improvement of rice yields under Component 2, and by introducing a slight
"improvement factor" in the vaccination impact (see Annex 4). The expected NPV and EIRR for this
sub-component are, thus, tied to the overall results of Component 2 and of the Sustainable Animal Health
Services sub-component.
Sustainable animal health services. The calculated EIRR for this component is 30, 28, and 25 percent for
the vaccination of chickens, pigs, cattle and buffaloes, respectively. The equivalent NPV values are
US$185,000, US$207,400, and US$ 200,300, based on the projected costs and mortality savings projected
by the Project's impact indicators (see Annex 4).
Pilot Agricultural Service Centers. Under ARP I, three pilot PASCs are expected to be established, and
these would continue to be supported under ARP I. Each center will benefit an average of about 3,500
farmers. Personal income is expected to increase by US$150 in the third year, a conservative estimate
based on international experience in 10 developing countries where similar farmer-owned enterprises have
-22 -



been established. An initial capital investment of about US$1 million under ARP II should return an
estimated NPV of just over US$1.5 million with an EIRR of 33 percent.
Component 4. Program Management
The benefits of this component are intended to be reflected in the other project components by improving
their overall viability. Program management costs have therefore been included in the overall Project
economic analysis.
Sensitivity Analysis. A sensitivity analysis was also carried out to model the effect of variations in key
Project assumptions (primarily benefits and costs). The results indicate that Project activities are generally
robust to changes in key assumptions, though the irrigation investment would be sensitive to a large decline
(> 25 percent) in the expected incremental rice yields (see Annex 4).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 3 million; FRR = 20.6 % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
From the total US$1.2 million of recurrent costs estimated for ARP II, the Government's contribution is
expected to be about 31 percent or US$ 347,000 (excluding staff salaries). This financial commitment is
approximately 32 percent of estimated total recurrent budget for DAA for FY2001/2002. Contribution by
the comnmunities would be approximately US$24,000 per year. Assuming US$1.5 per day for labor wage
rates, this represents about 2.2 days per capita per year labor commitment in the project areas. Given that
many children cannot contribute, the estimated recurrent contribution may increase to about 7 to 10 days
per year per family. The remaining recurrent costs would be incurred by the private sector, particularly for
the operation of the PASCs.
3. Technical:
The technical design of the Project is sound. It builds upon lessons learned from the implementation of
ARP I, experience from similar developing countries, and the expressed needs of East Timorese
stakeholders who actively participated in the design.
The Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management component will use small
community grants mechanisms that have been successfully piloted under the CEP Project. The component
is designed to disburse rapidly against basic guidelines that encourage sound practices of natural resource
management, and improved community resilience against external shocks amongst the participating
cornmunities.
Rehabilitation of light- to medium-damaged-medium damaged schemes. Under ARP I, a technical
analysis was carried out on 22 potential scheme to determine their feasibility for rehabilitation. The criteria
used were as follows:
Irrigated area: priority was given to schemes with the larger irrigated and potential expansion
areas.
Water resources: priority was given to schemes which were connected to other schemes, and with
water availability passing the I in 3 year low flow criteria
- 23 -



*     System condition: priority was given to schemes with headworks/intakes, control structures and
canal structures in poor or damaged condition and in need of urgent rehabilitation.
*      Water distribution: priority was given to simple schemes and schemes with previous investments
in intake structures and distribution systems (headworks/canals).
*     Access roads: priority was given to schemes with reasonably functioning access roads (schemes
with headworks further than 10 km from the nearest passable road were excluded).
*     Data availability: priority was given to schemes for which existing data such as maps (1:25,000
and/or 1:5,000 scale) and technical designs or agriculture data was available.
*     Fluvio-Geomorphology/Sedimentation: priority was given to schemes with relatively stable
fluvio-geomorphological conditions, and suitably selected locations for the intakes/weirs
considering the natural high sediment loads and shifting river beds. This would help ensure
minimum operation and maintenance due to excessive sedimentation.
*      Others: priority was given to schemes which needed urgent preventive maintenance and/or
rehabilitation to prevent further damage, and those which had been identified by East Timorese
authorities as priorities for special attention.
A summary of the technical evaluation is included in Annex 14. In addition, candidate schemes were
selected based on the following ARP I guidelines: (a) economic rate of return of 10 percent or higher; (b)
benefit to the greatest number of poor farmers; (c) minimum impact on the environment; (d) highest
beneficiary participation; (f) communities willing to provide operation and maintenance; and (g) location
outside natural protection areas. These results are summarized in Annex 4 (Economic Analysis) and
Annex 12 (Environmental Analysis). Complete reports are available in the Project files (see Annex 8).
Rehabilitation of community irrigation schemes and farm-to-market roads. The rehabilitation of
community irrigation schemes and rural access roads will use technical guidelines and funding mechanisms
already successfully tested under ARP 1. The works are envisaged to generate rapid cash to beneficiary
comnmunities, and encourage expansion of agricultural activities. Participation of farners as contractors
will reinforce traditional community cooperative groups or associations for the purpose of road and canal
maintenance.
Information to farmers. The provision of relevant and high quality information to farmers is expected to
be enhanced by radio information programs, the establishment of electronic links with CGIAR centers and
other centers of intemational expertise, and the mobilization of specialized technical assistance on demand.
This approach is expected to focus research knowledge in responding to farmers' immediate needs, and
help provide specialized back-up to DAA and district agriculture staff.
Sustainable animal health services. The system of Village Livestock Workers (VLWs), even though it is
untested in East Timor, draws upon a similar successful model in Cambodia, where para-veterinarians
were mobilized and now derive 30 percent of their income from veterinary services after just one year of
implementation. DAA will provide training and the regulatory framework to encourage progressive
provision of veterinary supplies and advice by a cadre of trained private VLWs. As in other developing
countries, vaccination of animals against public health threats or highly infectious diseases (including
Hemorrhagic Septicemia, Brucellosis and Classical Swine Fever) could continue to be provided by the
- 24-



Government. Public funding of vaccination campaigns has been included in ETTA's recurrent budget
projections up to mid-decade.
Pilot Agrcultural Service Centers. The PASC activities are new to East Timor, even though they have
been introduced in over 10 other developing countries. It is recognized that, although the PASCS are
designed to be community owned and operated, farmers' experience and capacity in East Timor remains
low for effectively managing the operations. Hence, the Project will provide for specialized technical
assistance to assess the PASCs business potential, and provides interim management training and support
until local capacity has been upgraded.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
See Project Management below.
4.2 Project management:
DAA and Project Management Unit. ARP 11 will build upon improved PMU capacity for Project
implementation developed under ARP I, where East Timorese counterparts received on-the-job training on
project planning and monitoring, procurement, and financial management procedures. Key staff also
received intensive training on Project management at the University of Michigan, which was applied to the
completion of the Project Implementation Plan.
During ARP I, the administrative capacity of DAA was constrained by the lack of a Project Management
Advisor to assist the PMU Director on day-to-day implementation. ARP II has made provisions for this
position. To ensure full ownership of the Project, key specialist positions at the PMU will be given to East
Timorese staff from the onset, who will be assisted during the initial stages of the Project by intemational
advisors in the vital functions of project management, procurement, financial management, and monitoring
and evaluation. The Project will provide for periodic modules of training on project management, and key
intemational advisors will be evaluated quarterly to determine their effectiveness in capacity transfer. In
addition, the Project will seek to improve language communication between local and intemational
advisors. This could include (a) requiring intemational advisors to speak Tetun, Bahasa Indonesia, or
Portuguese, or operate regularly through translators; (b) having key project documents prepared or
translated in the local language of choice; and (c) providing for English language training for DAA staff,
and Tetun training for foreign advisors.
The Information to Farmers component will require the close assistance of a highly qualified CGIAR
Liaison Officer, sufficiently familiar with the network of international centers to be able to convey and
clarify requests from the field. This qualification will be built into the expert's terms of reference.
Additional assistance on information programming is also expected to be provided by a communications
expert to be contracted by the Project.
DAA's capacity to establish and oversee the PASCs remains weak, but is being reinforced under ARP I by
a team of Farmer Ownership Model (FOM) experts who is assisting DAA in establishing the first three
pilot centers. Together, this team will assess the qualifications of the proposed private sector managers for
the centers to ensure that they have the required expertise.
- 25-



District Agricultural Officers. With their experience in vaccination campaigns and community works
during ARP I, the District Agriculture Officers are -expected to play a major role in these activities under
ARP II (under the oversight of DAA central staff). Component 1 is new, however, and there is limited
experience among district staff on how to provide effective extension advice to communities on natural
resources management. During pre-appraisal, the World Bank and DAA discussed the option of
implementing this component directly through DAA or through contracts between DAA and NGOs. This
will, however, undermine the need to establish effective partnerships between NGOs and the local
Government, which is essential considering their proximity to the communities and the fact that many
NGOs work only in few districts. Careful phasing of the component (starting only with two pilots per
district) and staff training on participatory rural appraisal techniques are expected to help build local
capacity. In addition, it is envisaged that district facilitation teams will require strong technical support
from DAA staff, experienced NGOs, and expert advisors during the initial implementation.
With only two veterinarians in the country and 13 District Livestock Officers, the capacity of DAA to
oversee the proposed system of Village Livestock Workers remains limited. However, this could be
addressed by establishing minimum qualifications and training for VLWs, and ensuring quality regulations
for the private supply of veterinary inputs. The District Livestock Officers will periodically evaluate the
qualifications of VLWs, as currently done in Cambodia under similar institutional constraints. In this
context, an early and progressive mobilization of the system, accompanied by periodic retraining of VLWs
will be of high importance to the success of this sub-component.
NGOs. NGOs are expected to be directly involved in the implementation of Component 1, the Information
to Farmers sub-component, monitoring and evaluation of project activities, and other project activities for
which they may have a comparative advantage. With some exceptions (e.g., the East Timorese Forest
Officers Group, or ETFOG) the capacity of local NGOs to facilitate community-level planning for natural
resources management remains limited. In the initial stages, assistance from experienced intemational
NGOs may be required to help build their capacity.
Rural Communities. The Project will use established mechanisms for community involvement and
financing. Component 1 will use village grants and fund management mechanisms that have been tested
under CEP, now in its second phase. The participation of traditional leaders and women in Project activities
will need to be monitored closely to ensure their effective involvement. The community works under
Component 2 will follow model contracts and supervision of the works by DAA and district irrigation staff
that have been successfully used under ARP I.
An important institutional issue is the distinct possibility that DAA will become a full-fledged Ministry
under the new Government, shortly after Project approval. ARP II's implementation mechanisms have
been designed with sufficient flexibility to accommodate these changes, focusing on inter-sectoral
coordination within DAA. Nonetheless, shifts in key Project staff and agricultural priorities under the new
Government remain a distinct possibility and are identified as a risk to the Project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6
4.4 Financial management issues:
See Annex 6
- 26 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental analysis of the project component activities was conducted during the Bank mission to
East Timor on 7 May - 1 June 2001. The assessment involved field visits to Tutuala, Los Palos, Baucau,
Aileu, Dili, Bobonaro, Maubessi, Ermera, Covalima and Oeccusi where the team interviewed farners,
market traders and district agricultural officers of both genders. The assessment also benefited from
discussions with officials of the Forestry Unit, the Irrigation Unit, the Crops Unit, the GIS Unit, and the
Environmental Protection Unit. Initial environmental screening was conducted during feasibility study of
irrigation schemes by SNC Lavalin. The environmental analysis reviewed the feasibility study report and
conducted field surveys and interviews to identify issues relevant to the project design. Key issues identified
include mitigation of irnpacts for irrigation rehabilitation, safe use of agricultural inputs, international
waterways, and public participation and awareness. A detailed description of issues is provided in Annex
12. The agreed environmental safeguards are summnarized in Section 7.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Due to the low capacity of the DAA, the emergency nature of the project and short implementation period,
there is no formal environmental management plan for this project. What the project has done, however, is
to incorporate mitigation and prevention measures into the implementation plan. The details of these
measures are given in Annex 12.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: July 23, 2001
An Environmental Analysis of the project was undertaken by a World Bank staff in May 2001. The draft
final report was submitted on 23 July 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) enviromnental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The environmental screening was conducted by SNC Lavalin during the feasibility study of irrigation
schemes. The study conducted extensive field surveys and questionnaires and maintained close consultation
with the DAA. The environmental analysis reviewed the findings of the feasibility study based on technical
soundness, field interviews and discussions with key personnel of DAA and EPU.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The assessment identified the long-term incremental environmental impact of the irrigation schemes as a
potential risk. This includes issues such as the encroachment of irrigated lands into nearby mangrove
forests and springs, contamination of ground water through inappropriate use of fertilizers, and the spread
of diseases such as malaria. This impact, however, lies beyond the purview of the PMU both because of the
short life-span of the project (two years) and the absence of policies and regulations related to
environmental control and management in East Timor. The PMU, however, will put in place water quality
monitoring to gauge the environmental performance of its schemes. Given the capacity constraint of the
- 27 -



PMU on environmental management, the PMU will collaborate with the Environment Protection Unit
(EPU) to design and implement this activity. Against the absence of any water quality standards in East
Timor, the project may refer to the "Government Regulation of The Republic of Indonesia Number 20 of
1990 Concerning The Control of Water Pollution" or any other suitable standard as a guide. As far as
possible, the PMU will involve the water user associations in the monitoring through the use of proxy
indicators.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
During pre-appraisal, a social assessment was carried out based on information from recent surveys and
field visits by a small group of experienced researchers. The review included the social analysis conducted
for the Joint Agriculture Donors' Mission, results of anthropological reviews carried out by CEP, results of
a recent suco poverty census, analysis of services demanded by communities under CEP and SEP, and
other relevant recent reports. The results of the social assessment are sunmmarized in Annex 13. The full
report is included in the Project files (see Annex 8). Below is a summary of the key social issues relevant to
the Project.
Indigenous peoples.  The people of East Timor do not fit the traditional World Bank's Indigenous
Peoples definition though their society does contain a mix of relatively isolated social groups. Despite being
small in terms of population (with about 880,000 people) and land area (154,000 square kilometers), East
Timor is inhabited by many groups with different cultures and languages, engaged in a wide range of
socioeconomic activities that include sea fishing and salt farming along the coast, irrigated rice production,
subsistence upland farming, and commercial coffee production. Anecdotal evidence from experienced
fieldworkers indicated that even between similar types of communities (e.g., rice farmers) large differences
can be expected in their willingness to adopt new technologies or spend more time working the land. The
Project is designed to benefit poor populations in upland areas which could be considered particularly
vulnerable. In addition, through the social assessment that is expected to continue through implementation,
the Project will be cognizant of the diversity of social groups in East Timor and be prepared to address
potential issues that may arise to ensure that the most vulnerable groups are not adversely affected.
Traditional systems. In many villages, traditional clan leadership is strong and religious leaders play a
major role, though community authority is extremely variable and influenced by clan, resistance, and
post-referendum systems. Village level programs must involve local, traditional leaders, while ensuring that
elite benefit capture is avoided. Care must be taken to ensure that decisions on the selection of pilot
communities and Project-funded activities take into consideration the interests of most community
members. One of the major criteria for selection of pilot communities under Component I is the presence
of both highly respected traditional leaders as well as sound governance (e.g., well developed Village
Councils). The Project will, however, continually monitor the selection of pilot communities and activities
to prevent capture of benefits by elite groups, and to work through structures that are recognized by local
people as legitimate.
Traditional social obligations remain important to farmers in most rural communities in East Timor. Even
poor families try to set aside some money, an animal, a store of grain that could be used for funerals,
weddings, or other important family events. To abdicate on this obligation would be unacceptable, and
families have gone heavily in debt rather than risk social stigma.
Current socio-economic conditions. The findings of the social assessment indicate the following:
- 28 -



*      Upland areas.  Farming in upland areas tends to be on small plots of rainfed, subsistence
cultivation. In many places only part of the plot is farmed, under a modified shifting cultivation
system. Farmers often practice mixed cropping and tend to plant the same crops every year. In
most upland areas these crops are not a significant source of income. In general, there is
significant variety in upland settlements, from densely packed centers of habitation to linear
villages that have developed along roads or mountain tops, to extremely sparsely scattered farms.
Upland farmers tend to be poorer and more fatalistic than their lowland neighbors.
*      Lowland areas.  Farmers in lowland areas are generally wealthier than in the uplands due to the
large amounts of irrigated rice that can be grown there. Recent data, however, suggests they have
been the most affected by the 1999 events and that rehabilitation of lowland areas is critical for the
national economy (see Figure 1).   There are also impoverished fishing communities and
'salt-farmers' along the coast. Lowland villages tend to be more densely populated than in the
uplands, and usually have better access to basic services. They follow a more typical Asian village
model, with most hamlets settled amidst shade trees in walking distance from their respective rice
fields.
*      Markets. Markets were severely disrupted at the end of 1999. Though they have gradually
returned to operation, many farmers complain that they still find it hard to sell their produce.
There are serious problems of low purchasing power, high costs of commodities, and buyers
lacking access to funds and transportation.
*      Reasons for subsistence farming abound. One of the reasons why farmers have not felt compelled
to generate surplus production is that, for as long as they can remember, they continually received
a low level of profit from the sales. There are also social and cultural values that act as
disincentives to produce more (such as sharing systems in rice producing areas).
*      Labor force.    The labor force currently has high expectations for wages and few real
opportunities. Largely due emergency and rehabilitation programs, unskilled wage rates in rural
areas hover between Rp. 25,000 and Rp. 30,000 per day (ca. US$2.5-$3/day) - ten times the rate
across the border in West Timor.
*      Road networks and transportation. Road transport tops the list of needs for most communities.
The costs of transporting people and products to the nearest towns are prohibitively high, making it
expensive to buy goods and move surplus harvest. The high price of fuel is often blamed for high
transport costs. Unlike the subsidized fuel in Indonesia, East Timor imports fuel from abroad and
imposes a tax on it.
Future expectations People have very mixed expectations for the future. Not surprisingly, poor people
tend to been more pessimistic, with the poorest upland farmers almost fatalistic about their future. People
are requesting a range of support including: better agricultural extension services; easier access to farming
inputs; rebuilding the farm-to-market and market-to-consumer linkages and access to credit facilities.
Participation of women. Women tend to work more hours every day than men, and carry out a wider
range of tasks. They play major roles in family health, education, and welfare activities as well as in farm
work. Women and children are expected to undertake poorly paid or laborious jobs such as the collection
of water and planting rice. Men carry out more prestigious or less exhausting jobs, such as using farm
machinery. In ARP I, it has been difficult for DAA to involve women in project activities since most
- 29 -



beneficiary lists identified men as the head of households. Under ARP II, special efforts will be made to
ensure that at least half of all proposals under the Participatory Development and Natural Resources
Management component will be from women's groups. In addition, women farmers will receive targeted
training by the Project and are expected to benefit largely from improved livestock health services.
Claims and disputes. While the full extent of land and assets claims and potential disputes are not know
given the displacement of such a large proportion of the population in 1999, the Project will not consider
funding for activities where there are known claims to land or assets. This could be included in the
screening criteria for these activities defined under the Project Implementation Plan.
Election disruption risks. It is not known how disruptive the first national election will be to village-level
development programs, but many government and non-government observers have suggested that activities
should be scaled down in the weeks immediately following the elections. Timing of provision of inputs and
information needs to avoid the politicization of the Project and, in particular, lessen the inherent risks to
extension staff working in the villages.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Many of the activities supported by ARP 11 attempt to inform and involve farmers proactively. The
rehabilitation of community works and vaccination campaigns are a continuation of similar activities
implemented under ARP 1, where farmers were already active participants. As East Timor moves away
from the rehabilitation phase, rapid, 'top-down' responses are gradually making way for longer-term
development, including a shift to more sustainable, appropriate, and demand-driven agricultural services.
ARP II has taken this strategy into account in all of its community-based activities.
The focus on participation is based on sound social and economic principles. In classic, top-down programs
the community are passive recipients of aid and dependency can set in. A participatory approach, by
contrast, creates a feeling of inclusion and ownership from the onset. Local people discuss their needs,
prepare their own plans, mobilize their own resources, manage implementation, and maintain the results.
The extension worker becomes their assistant, not their manager. Project resources are viewed as a
supplement rather than a substitute for those of the community.
In ARP II, Component I makes the greatest effort to encourage community participation. Pilot
communities would be able to obtain direct assistance for a wide range of natural resource management
practices. The choice is made by communities, using Participatory Rural Appraisal methods to ascertain
problems and resources before finally deciding on appropriate solutions.
The multi-sectoral teams that will carry out facilitation of Component I will focus on a small number of
locations initially. Their members should include extension workers from different agricultural sub-sectors
as well as NGO field workers, in order to provide impartial, non-sectoral focused assistance. Once the
communities identify their priorities, more specialized facilitation can be provided. The teams will undergo
special training to upgrade their participatory skills.
The Project will finance grants to help communities attain their goals, but only after the communities
themselves prepared the proposals, including commitments for in-kind inputs. The Facilitation Team will
assist in explaining the menu choices and, if necessary, arrange for farmers to visit other areas where the
activities have been carried out successfully. Transparency will be continually stressed, so that community
members know how funds are being used and the progress of activities. Adherence to guidelines and
enforcement of local sanctions will help ensure accountability. The existing Village Councils will assist in
the process and supervision of project activities.
- 30 -



The Project will also ensure that local traditional leaders such as clan heads, village chiefs, religious figures
and others, will participate actively in all village activities, to ensure the success and sustainability of
project activities. At the same time, elite capture of project benefits must be avoided. This will be one of
the most important challenges for the project facilitators, and a major reason why both traditional leaders
and Village Councils are involved in the implementation of the component. Special attention must also be
given to the inclusion of women and the poorer families, as they are often the main workers but seldom
participate in decision making.
Participation of beneficiaries and other stakeholders will also be encouraged to participate in other project
components. Examples include the community irrigation works, the rehabilitation of farm-to-market access
roads, and strengthening of Water User Associations. The establishment of the PASCs and the training of
Village Livestock Workers should also ensure farmers' participation and help make agricultural services
more demand-driven over the long-term.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs were involved from project preparation itself through consultation and participation in project design
workshop. NGOs are seen as an important stakeholder in the delivery of training and services to farmers.
NGOs will receive training and support through the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The following principles will ensure that project social development outcomes are achieved. Annex 13
provides more detailed inforrnation about the institutional arrangements:
*      Encourage real coordination with the traditional leadership. This institution should play an active
role in planning and supervision of ARP community driven activities. At the same time the project
should ensure that abuses of authority and elite capture is avoided. This can be done through the
inclusion of beneficiary groups in the formulation of proposals and the channeling of funds through
the village councils for ultimate allocation to beneficiary groups.
*      The institution of traditional leadership is a crucial factor for mobilizing village support and
ensuring the success of the project. All efforts should be made to ensure that the leaders feel that
they are engaged with the project. The actual role of the traditional leadership in the management
of the project should be assessed on a village by village basis. Where the institution of traditional
leadership is robust and intact, greater management license should be given to the traditional
leader. In villages where the institution is weak, the traditional leader may play an advisory role in
guiding and supporting the process of project implementation rather than a controlling role.
*      Both CEP and ARP seem to indicate that small, local working groups can be an effective means of
management. These working groups should be created, under the leadership (where appropriate)
or guidance of the councils and traditional leaders, to manage the day-to-day business of an
activity. Ideally the group would be established at the level of the actual activity, often the
subvillage or aldeia, and be responsible for procurement, maintaining records and reporting.
*      It is suggested that a team be formed to decide on the exact composition of the project menus.
These menus must be broad enough to give real choice in each location, but narrow enough to
ensure easy processing.
- 31 -



*      Emphasis of training should be on step-by-step procedures supported by a user-friendly project
manual.
*     The grants should be provided through the District Financial Officers to the Treasurer of the
Village Councils (Conselho do Suco). The Village Councils would then be responsible for the
allocation of the funds to the end recipients (such as particular farmers groups or traditional
leaders chosen by the community).
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social development outcomes will be ensured through stringent screening process, effective communication
and close supervision. Lessons from CEP have been incorporated into the project in order to ensure that
only legitimate groups receive the benefits of the Project under Component 1.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       * Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment. The Project has been classified as Category "B". A summary of the agreed
environmental safeguards is outlined below (see also Annex 12).
1.    Community activities under the Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources
Management component will be screened against criteria to evaluate their environmental and social
soundness.
2.   For the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and access roads:
a)    Mitigation measures for light-to-medium damage irrigation schemes will be included in the
terms of reference of the consultants undertaking the supervision of the works.
b)    An environmental assessment will be included in the terms of reference for the feasibility
study of major damaged irrigation schemes.
c)    The Division of Agricultural Affairs (or a successor thereof) will provide for water quality
monitoring of light-to-medium irrigation schemes.
- 32 -



d)    Community rehabilitation activities will be screened against the same environmental and
social checklist developed for the Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources
Management component (including possible impact on cultural property and
existence of known land claims).
e)    No irrigation or road rehabilitation activities will be supported inside protected areas.
f)    The Division of Agricultural Affairs (or successor thereof) will provide advice on
environmental best practices to local communities involved in road rehabilitation.
3.    For the Pilot Agricultural Service Centers:
a)    The procurement of pesticides by the PASCs will adhere to the Bank's OP 4.09 and
UNTAET's "Regulation on the Importation and Use of Agriculture Chemicals in East
Timor".
b)    DAA will ensure that agriculture staff are trained in the principles of Integrated Pest
Management and that information and training is provided to farmers on the safe and
sustainable use of pesticides.The procurement of pesticides by the PASCs will adhere to
OP 4.09.
c)    DAA will ban the sales of pesticides and agrochemicals in areas served by PASCs where
organic coffee is grown. that pesticides and other agrochemicals are not sold by the PASC
in upland areas where organic coffee is grown.
4.    DAA will ensure adequate public disclosure of Project activities, and availability of relevant
documents in publicly accessible locations.
Natural Habitats. All irrigation and farm-to-market access roads proposed for rehabilitation under the
Project will be located outside protected areas (one of the criteria used in the selection). The Pilot
Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management component is expected to help strengthen
the management of natural habitats by introducing improved methods of vegetative watershed management
and replanting.
Pest ManagemenL Given the potential increase in use of pesticides under the Pilot Agriculture Service
Centers and rehabilitated irrigated areas, the Policy on Pest Management (OP 4.09) will apply. The
Project will not procure pesticides classified as Class I (toxic pesticides) by the World Health
Organization. In addition, any pesticide procured through the PASCs will have to adhere to the
UNTAET's "Regulation on the Importation and Use of Agriculture Chemicals in East Timor" (under
finalization), which requires compliance with the FAO Code of Conduct on Distribution and Use of
Pesticides, the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, and the Rotterdam Convention on
the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for Chemicals and Pesticides in Intemational Trade. The Project will
also provide training in integrated pest management (IPM) and the safe use of pesticides (see Annex 12).
Indigenous People. Since the Project is designed to benefit poor and isolated upland communities (under
Components I and 3), an Indigenous People Plan will not be required. The social assessment undertaken
through implementation will help identify potential indigenous groups and ensure that they are not
adversely affected by Project activities.
- 33 -



Involuntary Resettlement and Land Acquisition. As the Project will only rehabilitate existing irrigation
schemes and roads and will not consider new areas, no involuntary resettlement is anticipated. As a
safeguard, however, provisions have been made in the Grant Agreement to ensure that any village grants
and irrigation and road rehabilitation activities under Components I and 2 will only be implemented after
East Timor adopts a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, and would follow the
provisions of the policy. In addition, the Project will not make any investments in areas where outstanding
land claims are known. The construction of the proposed PASCs will only involve the rehabilitation of
existing buildings under long-term leases, with no land acquisition or resettlement.
Cultural Property.   Since proposals for Component I and community works under Component 2
willoriginate from the communities themselves, no significant impact on cultural property is expected.
However, impact on cultural property will be one of the criteria used in the Project Implementation Plan to
screen these proposals against potential social or environmental impacts.
International Waterways. Irrigation schemes located in tributaries linked to the Naktuka river in Oecussi
and the Nunura and Malibaka rivers in Bobonaro will fall under the Operational Policy on Intemational
Waterways (OP 7.50), as these rivers are shared with Indonesia. However, an exception to this policy has
been granted based on the considerations outlined in Section I of this PAD.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project has been designed to minimize demands on the future recurrent budget of the Government. At
present, the anticipated recurrent financial burden for DAA is about US$240,000 a year (excluding staff
salaries). The larger rehabilitation schemes will require major repair by the end of 10 years.
Under Component 1, communities will be expected to provide voluntary in-kind contributions (such as
local labor) for inputs that they will need to continue to provide after the Project. In addition to ensuring
sustainability, this requirement will also help select communities truly committed to strengthening their
self-reliance.
Light- to medium-damaged irrigation schemes were subjected to rigorous economic and sensitivity analysis
during pre-appraisal that took into account such factors as lower than expected operation and maintenance,
poor construction quality, changes in climate, lower water availability, lack of inputs, delays in benefits,
and production cost increases (see Annex 4). Only schemes that passed the sensitivity analysis were
considered for rehabilitation. Nonetheless, future government policies (especially on rice) could affect the
viability of the schemes. This risk is diminished by the fact that the rehabilitation of these schemes is only
expected during the 2002 dry season, when critical policy decisions will be known. The role of Water User
Associations will be critical for future operation and maintenance, and this has been given close attention in
the project design.
Under ARP I, communities were paid for unskilled labor for the rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes
and access roads. This was justified by the need to restore a cash-strapped rural economy during the
post-emergency period, and by the long time commitment required for completion of the rehabilitation
works (about two months). Such payment, however, could lower fuiture maintenance incentives to the
communities (when cash payments will no longer be available). Under ARP II, payments for unskilled
labor will be provided when so identified in the community proposals. In all cases, however, payments
will not exceed prevalent rural wage rates, and beneficiary water users and/or Conselhos do Suco would be
- 34 -



requested to formally agree to maintain the irrigation and roads at their cost following the completion of the
works, as a condition for proposal acceptance.
The design of the Sustainable Animal Health Services sub-component recognizes that with only 13 District
Livestock Workers (one per district) DAA will be unable to provide all adequate veterinary advice and
medicines needed by some 80,000 farmning families. Hence, a carefully piloted privatized Village Livestock
Workers program will be introduced to complement the publicly funded vaccination campaigns.
The PASCs carry inherent risks associated with new businesses in East Timor. However, ARP II will seek
to maximize the sustainability of the centers by focusing first on establishing market links for agricultural
outputs, under the guidance of a highly experienced Farmer Ownership Model team. This will help ensure
that farmers generate sufficient cash to guarantee cost-recovery of inputs and services provided by the
centers. The risk of failure will also be minimized by a careful selection of PASC managers, and by the
establishment of joint venture links with existing businesses and/or exporters (see Background Paper on
PASCs, available in the project files).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Election period causes major delays or        H         Key contracts for FY01/02 dry season are being
disturbances in project activities.                     advanced through retroactive financing provided
by ETTA.
Markets and links to markets                  S         Project design (road rehabilitation, PASCs,
(transportation, distribution network and               information to farmers) and other donor
processing) not continue to operate                     interventions (e.g., road network rehabilitation
effectively.                                            by ADB, SEP)are expected to stimulate local
markets.
Local food crops cannot be produced at        S         Field surveys suggest problem with domestic
competitive prices.                                     rice markets is related to distribution and
packaging, and not exclusively to price
competition. Economic analysis takes into
account conservative assumptions of rice
production outputs.
From Components to Outputs
Facilitators for Component 1 are not          S         The number of pilot communities under
effective in helping communities to                     Component 1 has been reduced to only two per
strengthen their resilience and select                  district during the first year, because of limited
appropriate pilot activities for project                number of qualified facilitators and to learn
support.                                                gradually from lessons of experience.
Farmers are not willing to adopt new         M          Project will start only with two pilots per
natural resource management practices                   district, thus selecting only communities that are
and to contribute voluntary labor to                    willing to contribute voluntary labor.
-35 -



sustain these activities.
Farmers are not willing to collaborate in    S        Particular attention will be paid to supervision
maintaining irrigation canals and roads               of O&M activities and establishment of Water
and in managing water resources in times              Users Associations.
of scarcity.
Major prolonged droughts or floods will      S        Sensitivity analysis on irrigation schemes
occur.                                                considered possible crop failures and delays in
accrued benefits due to natural causes.
Radio network in isolated upland areas      M         DAA has formed a radio team with CEP and
cannot be effectively established.                    Radio UNTAET to plan radio coverage network
into remote areas.
Farmers do not recognize the benefits of    M         Information campaign will pay particular
vaccination and will not bring their                  attention to forward announcement of
animals to vaccination corrals.                       vaccination campaigns.
Farmers are unable to pay for veterinary     S        PASC design starts by establishing viable
services and/or for inputs provided by the            output markets to ensure cash availability; the
PASCs.                                                Project will support a farmer survey to study
carefully the ability to pay for services before
launching the Village Livestock Workers
program.
PASCs are not managed effectively and        S        Particular attention will be given to the selection
are unable to compete in private markets.             of PASC Managers and to developing a detailed
business plan to study market viability for all
proposed interventions. proposed.
Possible changes in institutional            S        Project has been designed with broad-based
arrangements, key staff and priorities                consultation among DAA and DAO staff to
under the new Government.                             hedge against staff changes.
Strategy and policy option papers are not   S         Strategy and policy advisors will be selected
acceptable to and not used by East                    with special attention to process skills, and will
Timorese policy makers.                               respond to a high-level "think tank" of East
Timorese agricultural experts and future policy
makers; options are expected to be discussed
with key stakeholders as they are developed.
There is insufficient counterpart funding   M         Risk is relatively minor given good
to ensure the achievement and                         institutionalization of ARP activities to date and
sustainability of project objectives.                 good track record of counterpart funding.
Trained staff fail to apply project         M         Project management training will be provided on
management skills effectively to improve              a continuous basis for over a year, coinciding
strategic planning and project                        with regular project management reviews. This
coordination.                                         is expected to internalize principles of project
- 36 -



management and strategic planning into DAA's
operations.
Overall Risk Rating                          S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The Project entails substantial risks, but also potentially high benefits to East Timorese farmers. The level
of risk is associated primarily with the instability of post-conflict conditions, and uncertainties of the
transition period. The risk minimization strategy adopted by the Project include: (a) a programmatic,
flexible design responsive to changes in socio-economic conditions; (b) intensive IDA supervision (3-4
times a year); and (c) a heavy focus on training agriculture staff in project management and strategic
planning. This will facilitate periodic project evaluations and adjustments as the socio-political conditions
evolve.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible controversial aspects include:
*     PASCs. The PASC concept is still new to East Timor, and three pilot centers will have just been
established by the start of ARP II. The concept has come under intense criticism in the past due to
the perception that farmers may not be able to pay for inputs, and that the present market failures
may not allow a direct transition from a highly subsidized agricultural sector (under Indonesian
times) to a private model of input supply. This was considered in redesigning the PASCs to
facilitate farrners output markets first (to generate much needed cash) and then establish the
necessary input links. The three PASCs established under ARP I will become fully operational
before an evaluation is carried out to determine lessons of experience and the feasibility of their
expansion into 2-3 new PASCs supported by the Project in other locations.
*      Village Livestock Workers. The concept of introducing a system of private Village Livestock
Workers (VLWs) is also new to East Timor, but it is urgently needed to address the shortfall in
veterinary services at the village level. Possible controversial aspects of a privatized system of
VLWs include the future ability of farmers to pay for livestock services, and the ability of DAA to
adequately oversee the quality of service provided. The Project has considered these factors by
ensuring that the VLWs program would be introduced gradually, and as a complement (rather than
a replacement) of basic vaccination campaigns, which would continue to be paid by the
Government. The Project will also ensure government certification and monitoring of VLWs
qualifications and services provided.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*  DAA will staff all key PMIU positions, with expertise and qualifications acceptable to IDA.
*  DAA will complete and adopt an Accounting and Procurement Manual acceptable to IDA, including:
(a) a description of the Project's procurement procedures and standard procurement documentation;
and (b) the Project's reporting requirements, and agreed financial management and audit procedures.
This should also include the establishment of a Fixed Assets Registry for all assets financed under ARP
I and ARP II and a strengthened system for procurement filing and monitoring.
- 37 -



2. Conditions of Disbursement:
* Disbursement of Community Grants under the Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources
component of the Project will be subject to finalization and adoption of an Operational Manual for the
component, and to the adoption of a Land Acquisition Resettlement Policy Framework, acceptable to
IDA.
* Disbursement of Civil Works (irrigation and road rehabilitation and maintenance) under the Rapid
Infrastructure Rehabilitation component will be subject to the adoption of a Land Acquisition
Resettlement Policy Framework, acceptable to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Accounts/Audits
- UNTAET will prepare, not later than October 1, 2002, quarterly Project Management Reports in
accordance with the guidelines agreed at negotiations, and submit them to IDA not later than 45 days
after the end of each calendar quarter.
- UNTAET will appoint an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, to review the Project records,
accounts, and financial statements. Project audits, including an opinion on financial statements,
Special Account, withdrawals from the grant based on Statement of Expenditures, and certified copies
of the financial statements, should be submitted to IDA no later than December 31 of each year (with
the first audit due on December 31, 2002).
Management of the Project
* UNTAET will maintain, until the conclusion of the Project, a Project Management Unit responsible for
the overall management of the Project, headed by a qualified and experienced Project Director, and
provided at all times with adequate funds and resources. The PMU will be staffed by qualified and
experienced personnel in sufficient numbers, including a full time Procurement Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist, and Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, and equivalent foreign Advisors on
Project Management, Procurement, Financial Management and Monitoring and Evaluation. UNTAET
shall ensure the appropriate participation of the heads of sectors representing irrigation, crop
production, livestock, fisheries and forestry in the implementation of the Project.
Monitoring. Review and Reporting
* The PMU will provide IDA with monthly and quarterly progress reports in accordance with TFET
requirements. The reports should include the progress of activities for the rehabilitation of the Hera
Port funded through the Asian Development Bank.
* UNTAET will maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis the carrying out the Project and achievement of its objectives.
* UNTAET will prepare and submit to IDA, on or about October 1, 2001, a mid-term review report
integrating the results of the Project's monitoring and evaluation, and the recommended measures to
- 38 -



achieve the Project's objective. UNTAET to carry out the mid-term review by October 31, 2002, and
thereafter, adjust project implementation in accordance with the conclusions and recommendations of
the review.
Implementation
*  UNTAET will adopt and, thereafter, follow the procedures in the Accounting and Procurement Manual
developed under the Project.
* UNTAET will adopt and thereafter follow an Operational Manual for the Pilot Participatory
Development and Natural Resources Management Component, provided that it can be updated from
time to time with IDA's prior agreement. The Operational Manual should include: (i) the criteria for
pilot villages and terms and conditions of the village grants; (ii) the process of preparation of the village
grant proposals and their monitoring; (iii) procurement, reporting, financial, and audit procedures; (iv)
the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework; (v) environmental criteria; and (viii)
maintenance provisions.
. UNTAET will make available to participating Districts and villages public information on all
administrative, financial, environmental, procedural, and technical aspects pertaining to the village
grants.
e In carrying out the Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management Component,
UNTAET shall select pilot villages in the districts of Baucau, Covalima, Dili, Latuem, Liquiqa,
Manufahi, and Oecussi in accordance with the following criteria: (i) preference will be given to poor
upland and coastal villages; (ii) villages shall have dynamic and productive groups of farmers and a
known history of sound local governance and strong traditional leadership; and (iii) villages should be
willing to contribute local labor and materials as their in-kind contribution.
* UNTAET will ensure that the technical reviews of community grant proposals under Component I
confirm that the activities (i) follow the agreed selection criteria; (ii) have secured all necessary
funding (including voluntary contributions by villagers); (iii) incorporate appropriate technical and
environmental standards and practices; (iv) comply with the requirements of the Land Acquisition and
Resettlement Policy Framework; and (v) have an acceptable maintenance program. UNTAET will also
ensure that the PMU and the Conselho do Suco have entered into an agreement which includes an
implementation and maintenance plan in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.
* UNTAET shall cause each Conselho do Suco to ensure that farmers' groups carry out the activities
under Component 1 in accordance with the Operational Manual and the respective community grant
agreements.
* In carrying out the village grants, and the irrigation and road rehabilitation and maintenance works
under Components I and 2, UNTAET will take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land
or assets and to avoid the displacement of persons. Where this is unavoidable, compensation and
rehabilitation measures will be provided in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework.
- 39 -



*  In carrying out the rehabilitation and maintenance works under Component 2 of the Project, UNTAET
shall follow appropriate environmental procedures acceptable to IDA, including carrying out
preliminary screening of irrigation schemes and farm-to-market access roads, and implementing any
environmental mitigation measures that may be required.
*  In carrying out the rehabilitation of irrigation and road schemes under Component 2 of the Project,
UNTAET shall select ongoing schemes involving only minor additions or alterations that (a) will not
adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to Indonesian riparians; and (b) will not be
adversely affected by Indonesian riparians' possible water use.
* UNTAET shall take all measures to ensure that provision of pesticides for the Pilot Agriculture Service
Centers follows IDA's Operational Procedure 4.09, and that appropriate training is provided to farrners
on the safe use of pesticides.
*  Training under the Project shall be in accordance with a training program acceptable to IDA.
*  UNTAET will furnish the results of the policy study on rural development to IDA for comments by no
later than October 30, 2002.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
O 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L. Completeness and readiness of the engineering design documentsfor thefirstyear's activities.
The designs of the light- to medium-damaged irrigation works proposed under the Project have been
completed.
2. Completeness and readiness of the procurement documentsfor thefirstyear's activities.
The bidding documents for the larger irrigation works and major contracts under the Project are being
finalized. Community irrigation and road works, and consultants' contracts will use contract models
developed under ARP I. The Procurement Plan for the first year of the Project has been finalized and
reviewed by the appraisal mission.
3. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
A final draft PIP acceptable to IDA has been completed.
-40 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
An exception to the Intemational Waterways Policy (OP 7.50) under paragraph 7(a) of the policy was
granted on August 2, 2001 based on the following considerations: (i) the proposed rehabilitation will not
involve any major additions or alterations of existing schemes, but just rehabilitation of presently
operational schemes to enable their full operating potential; (ii) because the schemes are simply being
rehabilitated, the water quantity requirements will remain the same in relation to the original schemes, with
no decline in water quality; and (iii) the possibility that riparian users in Indonesia will have an adverse
impact on the schemes is considered very unlikely given the location of the schemes in the border areas, the
location of the intakes (inside East Timor), the physiographic and geological characteristics of the border
(making it unlikely that dams, large captive storage reservoirs, major agricultural chemical disasters, or
industrial complexes will be developed), and the small size of the schemes relative to the size of the
catchment, ensuring that the water yield of basins is sufficient to support anticipated riparian demand.
All light- to medium-damaged irrigation schemes proposed for rehabilitation under ARP II were screened to
ensure that they complied with the exception to the policy. However, it was not possible to assess up front
the location of the community irrigation schemes (since they will be proposed by communities each season).
Given the small scale nature of the works, it is expected that the exception to the policy will also apply.
The initial screening procedure for community irrigation works will alert DAA staff whether the policy
could apply.  Any proposed community schemes that might potentially fall under the policy will
subsequently be reviewed in consultation with IDA to ensure that they qualify for the exception. In cases
where this cannot be ensured, the schemes will not be considered for rehabilitation under the Project. A
covenant to this effect has been included in the Grant Agreement.
Sofia U. Bettencourt              Mark D. Wilson                    Klaus Rohland
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country ManagerlDirector
- 41 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives                       Indicators                 Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:             Sector Indicators:                   Sectorl country reports:              (from  Goal to Bank Mission)
Agriculture Sector Strategy Goal:
I. Improved standard of living of    1. I Increased household assets      Poverty study (baseline) and
rural households                      (e.g., # of livestock, farrn      project monitoring
equipment, household
durables) in project areas.
2.Economic growth stimulated         2.1 Contribution ofagricultural      County Economic Memorandum
sector to national real GDP
incteased from US$78 million
in 2001 to US$95 million in
2003 (in 1993 dollars).
2.2 Increased export sales of key
commodities (coffee,
candlenut, etc).
Project Development                  Outcome I Impact                     Project reports:                     (from  Objective to Goal)
Objective:                           Indicators:
1. Improved food security and        1.1 Average rice yields              Irrigation areas monitoring          Intemational market prices for key
increased production of farm         increased from 1.5 MT/ha to                                           export commodities (e.g. coffee) do not
families in project areas             3 MT/ha in 5 years in                                                become unfavorable.
.                                         rehabilitated irrigated areas.
1.2 Production of other food         DAA food production estimates        No major delays or disturbances in
crops such as maize,                                                 project activities due to the election
cassava, and beans at 120%/                                          period,
of pre-conflict (1999) levels
in project areas.
1.3 About 20% reduction in           Project baseline survey              Markets and links to markets
number of households with                                            (transportation, distribution network
critically low food reserves                                         and processing) start operating
in project areas.                                                    effectively.
Local food crops can be produced at
competitve prices.
-42 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives                     Indicators                Monitoring & Evaluation              Critical Assumptions
Output from  each                  Output Indicators:                 Project reports:                   (from  Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Pilotparticipatory              * 14pilotsucos assisted by the     Component monitoring survey        There is sufficient capacity to provide
development and natural            project (up to 30 if initial                                       appropriate technical back-up to
resources management               pilots are successful by                                           farmers
program implemented                mid-term)
*  # of community grants                                              Farmers are willing to adopt new
provided and successfully                                          natural resource management practices
completed                                                          and to contribute voluntary labor to
*  About 50% of the proposals                                         sustain the activities
submitted for village grants
funding from women's groups.
2. Rapid rehabilitation of         * 2,100 ha. of irrigated area      Irrigation PBME surveys             Farmers are willing to collaborate in
infrastructure implemented            resulting from rehabilitation of                                    maintaining irrigation canals and roads
community-based irrigation                                         and managing water resources in times
schemes                                                            of scarcity.
* 100 km. of agriculture access                                       No major prolonged droughts or floods.
roads rehabilitated to year round
passable level
* 1,400 ha. of irrigated area
resulting from the rehabilitation
of light-to-medium damaged
irigation schemes
* I Water Users Associations
established and members trained,
including women, with WUA
functioning and maintaining the
rehabilitated schemes.
3. Farmer services provided        3.1 Farmer information system      Supervision and Project monitoring    Radio network to isolated upland areas
established and operational:                                     is effectively established.
* Weekly agriculture radio
program institutionalized.
* Multi-media materials like
posters, leaflets, radio
cassettes, videos prepared
and distributed.
* CGIAR Liaison Secretariat
established and functional.
3.2  Sustainable Animal Health    Vaccination campaign monitoring    Farmers recognize the benefits of
Services provided:                             ~~~~~~~~~~~vaccination and bring their livestock to
Services provided:                                              vaccination corrals.
* 80% of adult cattle,       Supervision and Project Monitoring
buffaloes and pigs
vaccinated
* Nos. of bottles of                                             Farmers are able and willing to pay for
Newcastle disease                                              veterinary services.
medicine taken by sucos.
* 13 district livestock
trainers trained
* 200 Village Livestock                                          Centers are effectively managed and
Workers trained (including  Supervision and Project Monitoring    able to compete in private markets.
women) and provided with
starter kits
3.3 PASCs piloted and validated:
* 3 PASCs (established under
ARP I) fully operational
as business enterprises
- 43 -



* 2-3 new PASCs established
and operational (if                                            Farmers are able and willing to pay for
successful evaluation of                                       inputs.
initial pilots)
4. Program management               4.1 Policy and Strategy           Supervision and Project Monitoring    Possible  changes  in  institutional
framework strengthened:                                        arrangements, key staff and priorities
under the new Govemment do not
* Policy options papers on   Supervision and Project Monitoring  affect project implementation.
agriculture policy and
regional development
prepared and discussed
with key stakeholders.                                        Options presented are acceptable to and
* Revised forest policy and                                     used by East Timorese policy makers
strategy prepared and
discussed with key
stakeholders.
* Coastal fisheries baseline
database completed
4.2 Project Management
strengthened:
strengthened:                                              Adequate counterpaTt funding is
*  Project management and     Supervision assessments            maintained to ensure the achievement
M&E system established                                         and sustainability of project objectives
and operational.
* Key project management                                        There is effective increase in capacity
positions filled.                                             to ensure that East Timorese staffcan
* 30 staff and NGO partners                                     successfully take over project activities
trained on project
management and selected                                        Stafftrained apply project management
technical topics including                                     skills effectively to improve strategic
social, gender, and                                            planning and coordination
environmental issues.
* Overall about 30% of
trained farmers and other
beneficiaries are women
* Effective coordination
and communication with
DAOs and NGOs
established.
-44 -



I     Key Performance              l                                  l
Hierarchy of Objectives                     Indicators                Monitoring & Evaluation              Critical Assumptions
Project Components /               Inputs: (budget for each           Project reports:                   (from  Components to
Sub-components:                    component)                                                             Outputs)
Total  Project  Costs  (Including
Contingencies)
US$8.91 million
1. Pilot Participatory             Component total: USs0.9 million    Project financial accounts and progress  Communities are willing and able to
Development and Natural                                            reports                            contribute their share of voluntary
Resources Management                                                                                  unskilled labor (as opposed to working
1. I Suco selection and  USS4,600                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~for competing rural wage programs)
1.1 Suco selection and            US$4,600
establishment of facilitation
teams
1.2 Applied training              US$138,000
1.3 Facilitation of community     US$71,000
proposals
1.4 Village grants                 US$700,000 (US$20,000/suco)
1.5 Monitoring and evaluation     US$27,500
2. Rapid Infrastracture           Component total: USS2.7 million
Rehabilitation
2.1 Community-based irrigation    US$420,000
scheme rehabilitation
(including technical audit)
2.2 Rehabilitation of             US$1,510,000
light-to-medium damaged
irrigation schemes
2.3 Farm-to-market access roads   US$320,000
rehabilitation
2.4 Feasibility study for major   US$230,000
damnaged schemes
2.5 Establishment of Water User   US$ 145,000
Associations and policy
development for O&M
2.6 Imrgation training            USS90,000
3.  Farmer Services                Component total: USS3.1 million    Project financial accounts and progress
2.1 Information to farmners        US$685,000                         reports
3. 1.1  Information programming   US$530,000
3.1.2  Establishment of CGIAR     US$155,000
Liaison Secretariat
3.2  Sustainable Animal Health     US$1,290,000
Services
3.2.1. Vaccination programs        US$750,000
3.2. 2. Village Livestock Workers  US$540,000
3.3    Pilot Agriculture Service   US$1,130,000
Centers
3. 3. 1. Operation of 3 Pilots     US$770,000
(established under ARP I)
3. 3. 2. Expansion into 2-3 new    US$360,000
PASCs
4. Program Management              Component total:                   Project financial accounts and project
US$2.2 million                     reports
4.1 Policy and Strategy            US$265,000
- 45 -



4.1.1I. Agrnculture Policy Studies  US$ 145,000
4. 1.2. Natural Resources Studies  US$ 120,000
4.2   Project Management        US$1 ,900,000
4.2.1. Improved district        US$685,000
transportation
4.2.2. Training and workshops    US$270,000
4.2.3. Core Project Management   US$640,000
team
4.2.4. M&E and General          US$270,000
Operations
4.2.5. External Audit           US$35,000
- 46 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
SUMMARY
This Annex provides a description of the East Timor Second Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP I1).
The objective of the Project is to assist the Government in improving food security of farm families and
increasing the agricultural production in selected areas of East Timor. The Project consists of four
components:
*     Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management (US$0.9 million)
*     Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation (US$2.7 million)
*     Services for Farmers (US$3.1 million)
*     Program Management (US$2.2 million)
The estimated total costs of the ARP II Project are US$8.9 million, of which US$8.0 rnillion will be
provided by TFET and US$0.9 million by CFET counterpart financing. The implementation period of
ARP II is estimated to twenty seven months. Contingencies of approximately 15 percent will help ensure
flexibility during project implementation.
In addition to ARP II, the 2001 TFET assistance to the agriculture sector includes a US$1.0 million grant
for the Rehabilitation of the Hera Fishing Port, which will be managed by the Asian Development Bank
under a separate, but parallel project. Hence, the total TFET 2001 allocation for the agriculture sector is
US$9.0 million. An additional TFET commitment of US$3.0 million may become available during 2002,
and will be earmarked for the rehabilitation of three major irrigation schemes designed under ARP II. This
Annex describes primarily the ARP II Project, though close collaboration in supervision and reporting is
expected between ARP II and the ADB-administered Hera Port Rehabilitation Project.
THE CONTEXT
The violence that followed the August 30, 1999 referendum in East Timor resulted in the temporary and/or
permanent displacement of about 75 percent of the population. The food distribution and marketing
systems, together with commerce and essential services, were paralyzed, traditional assets (such as
livestock and fishing gear) were destroyed, and agricultural production was severely disrupted in many
areas of the country.  Estimates from the recently completed village poverty survey put the number of
buffaloes, goats and pigs lost to the violence at respectively 29, 43 and 38 percent of the 1999 levels.
Much of the damage to rural infrastructure was due to delayed maintenance, in part related to lack of
security and risks associated with freedom struggle, and in part related to the legacy of past dependence on
government assistance for infrastructure maintenance. The lack of road maintenance made it very difficult
for farmers to move their agricultural products to markets. At the same time, the damage to large intake
structures and poor state of irrigation canals kept large areas from being irrigated or cropped. In some
schemes (e.g., Maliana I and II in Bobonaro) more than 50 percent of the area could not be irrigated due to
broken intakes or major canals being clogged by heavy sediments. Rice production suffered adjustments
due to the loss of traditional markets in West Timor (for Bobonaro, Oecussi, Covalima), and the loss of
government subsidies on fertilizers and fuel. New investments on irrigation rehabilitation, therefore,
require careful assessment to conform to the emerging market adjustments.
- 47 -



Agricultural support services, such as research, extension, input supply, and market information, have been
severely curtailed. From a staff of 6,000 and an annual budget of about US$1.87 million equivalent during
Indonesian times, the Division of Agriculture Affairs (DAA) is projected to have only 160 staff and budget
allocation of US$1.1 million in FY2001/2002. This operational budget is unlikely to be increased in the
short-term, given a total estimated CFET budgetary envelope of US$65 million and the current priorities
given to health and education. Pending revenues from the Timor Gap starting from 2004/2005, DAA will
have to rely much more on partnerships with the private sector, NGOs and rural communities for the
delivery of agricultural services. Lessons of experience from other developing countries indicate that such
an approach will, in the long-term, be more effective than the heavy reliance on government subsidies and
disempowerment of rural communities that characterized the Indonesian times.
The First Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP I) addressed these issues by: (i) providing replacement
of priority assets (buffaloes, cattle, handtools and chicken) to poor farming families; (ii) rehabilitating
about 5,200 hectares of community irrigation schemes and 50 kilometers of farm-to-market access roads;
(iii) establishing the foundation for three Pilot Agriculture Service Centers and disseminating information to
farmers; and (iv) establishing a Project Management Unit at the DAA and carrying out capacity building of
its staff.
The lessons of experience from ARP I and other donor-funded projects during 2000-2001 illustrated the
effectiveness of working through communities for the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure. It also showed
the difficulties that DAA faced in distributing a limited number of valuable assets to a large number of
needy beneficiaries. While national distribution of assets was appropriate immediately after the emergency
period (due to their general scarcity in East Timor), this approach is no longer justified under ARP II.
Instead, it will be replaced by a pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
component that will build upon the experience from community works supported under ARP I and other
community-based programs (such as the Community Empowerment Project or CEP).
In ARP I, high priority was placed on the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes. This approach has been
reassessed in light of improved information on the market conditions and likely benefits of the rehabilitation
work.  The heavy donor focus on irrigated areas has helped create distortions at two levels: first, the
majority of poor, subsistence farmers in East Timor live in upland areas. With the loss of traditional safety
nets and general paucity of cash, upland farmers were particularly vulnerable in the post-emergency period
(though lowland fanners appear to have suffered the most losses). Second, under ARP I, three Sectoral
Units of DAA (Livestock, Crop Production, and Irrigation) were involved while excluding two others
(Fisheries and Forestry). The establishment of a relatively well-funded Project Management Unit within a
fund-constrained Division generated conflicts over programmatic priorities and allocation of equipment and
operational funds.
Discussions have been carried out with the East Timorese leadership and other donors on expectations for
the post-TFET period. It is currently envisaged that TFET would phase out around independence, and be
followed by a top-off of public expenditures allocated against agreed sectoral budgets and benchmarks. In
this context, it is important that the second phase TFET projects help pave the way for programmatic
financing, either by bilateral donors and/or by a post-TFET fund administered by the World Bank. This
argues for a wider coverage of sectoral priorities than would normally have been considered under a regular
project.
The Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP II) has been designed to meet these evolving priorities.
It would invest in short-term activities aimed at addressing key transitional difficulties (e.g. rapid
rehabilitation of infrastructure) while paving the way for longer-term sustainable development in the sector.
- 48 -



Unlike other sectors, where basic rehabilitation of schools or health centers are key strategic priorities,
agricultural priorities are spread among a larger number of activities and agro-ecological zones. Limiting
investment to only one key area (e.g., irrigation schemes) would run the risk of distorting agricultural
markets and leave large numbers of the rural poor unassisted. The challenge for ARP II will be to balance
short-term rehabilitation needs with the establishment of a long-termn sustainable development framework
for the agriculture sector.
The first component - Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management - will pilot
an approach to strengthen the self-resilience of poor upland commnunities and make them less vulnerable to
external shocks. It directly addresses the Project objective of strengthening food security, and help
re-establish strong community self-reliance systems that will decrease dependence on Government
assistance unlikely to be available in the future. The approach - relying on village grants to the
communities rather than provision of inputs -- builds upon the lessons of experience from the Regional
Agricultural Area Development Projects in Indonesia, the Kecamatan Development Project in Indonesia,
and the Community Empowerment Project (CEP) in East Timor. While the component will use a similar
mechanism as CEP to ensure consistency, the menu of options favors natural resources management
interventions (forestry, fisheries, land, and water management). By testing and institutionalizing this
approach within DAA, the Project will help create an institutional shift towards more integrated and
demand-based regional development. A similar approach to Component I will be piloted by AusAID in
Bobonaro, Viqueque, and Aileu, and by UNDP in Manatutu, and Ainaro.
The second component - Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation - will seek to foster agricultural growth,
provide a much needed infusion of short-term cash to rural communities, and stimulate agricultural markets
(through the rehabilitation of farm-to-market access roads).
The third component - Services to Farmers - will help provide emergency needs (such as basic market
information and vaccination), while helping establish the foundation for longer-tern private sector delivery
of services in the areas of veterinary health, input supply, and market outlet.
The fourth component - Program Management - will assist the new Government in making essential
policy decisions and facilitate future bilateral investment in the sector. It will also help strengthen the
capacity of staff on project management, participating approaches, and priority technical topics at the
national and district levels.
Many of the Project's activities - such as community irrigation and road rehabilitation, vaccination
campaigns, provision of information, and the PASCs - are continuation of activities piloted during ARP I.
Sufficient lessons of experience and staff capacity have been acquired to help ensure satisfactory
implementation. Bidding documents for larger irrigation schemes have or are in the process of being
processed, and the expected retention of key ARP I staff and advisors on project management (especially in
the areas of procurement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation) should help ensure no
initial mobilization lags in activity implementation. In addition, the fact that project activities are clearly
divided amongst established units within DAA will help facilitate implementation, effectively limiting the
number of activities that each unit is responsible for. Mechanisms have been built in project design to
ensure effective coordination of project management.
- 49 -



The Project also includes activities that will pave the way for future govermment decisions and/or future
donor financing, such as, the initial establishment of a small Liaison Secretariat of the Consultative Group
of International Agricultural Research (CGLAR) at DAA, expected to be funded in the post-independence
period by external donors, and the preparation of policy options papers on critical areas of agricultural
policy for consideration by the new Government. The Project design has been developed in close
consultation with other donors, DAA staff at the national and district levels and NGOs, to ensure
consistency with the emerging priorities in the sector and availability of socio-economic information on
farmers' conditions.
At the same time, East Timor has recently conducted its first national election. The social, political and
economic conditions are in flux, and emerging infornation is becoming available that may result in new
priorities and strategies. This argues for a flexible, programmatic approach that can be periodically
evaluated and adjusted. While the ARP II design outlines approximate targets and implementation
approaches, these will be re-evaluated during regular supervisions and at the mid-term review (planned for
October 2002) to make any necessary adjustments.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$0.94 million
Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
This component will pilot an approach to increase the resilience of poor farming communities to extemal
shocks (economic, market, climatic). The component will be tested initially in about two villages (sucos)
per district in Baucau, Covalima, Dili, Lautem, Liquica, Manufahi, and Oecussi (a total of 14 sucos).
Subject to a satisfactory evaluation at mid-term, the activities could be expanded to a total of 30 sucos by
the end of the Project (about 4-5 per district). A similar approach is expected to be piloted by AusAID in
Viqueque, Aileu and Bobonaro, by the Portuguese Mission in Ermera, and by UNDP in Ainaro and
Manatutu.
The component aims to strengthen traditional self-reliance groups and render them less dependent on
external assistance. It will also help community groups to be less vulnerable to times of scarcity and
external factors by, inter alia, improving the management of their natural resource base and diversifying
their sources of income. The menu of activities - primarily related to natural resource management - was
designed to benefit large sections of the community and involve the poorest and most vulnerable groups
(e.g., women).
The Project will finance the costs of non-governmental facilitators, training, workshops, cross visits,
community grants, and incremental operating costs associated with the following activities:
*      Selection of pilot villages and establishment of facilitation teams
*      Applied training
*      Facilitation of community proposals
*      Community grants
*      Monitoring and evaluation
11
The international centers under CGIAR have organized themselves into a group called "Future Harvest.'
Throughout this document, the word 'farmners' includes foresters, fishers, and primary industiy workers associated with
agriculture, natural resources managemnent and rural industries (such as processors or marketers).
- 50 -



The implementation of this component would be led by the District Agriculture Officers of each pilot
district, in close collaboration with a national DAA team composed of the Heads of Forestry, Fisheries,
Crop Production, and Livestock. Given the component's emphasis on natural resources management,
Forestry and Fisheries staff are expected to play a major role in providing technical back-up.  District
Agriculture Officers will provide monthly progress reports to the Director of Agricultural Affairs on the
progress of the village activities.
Selection of Pilot Villages and Establishment of Facilitation Teams. The pilot communities will be
selected according to the following criteria:
*      Preference will be given to poor upland and coastal villages.
*      Pilot villages should have dynamic, productive groups of farmers, and a known history of sound
local governance and strong traditional
leadership 
*      Pilot sucos should be willing to contribute free local labor and materials as their in-kind
contribution to the Project.
Ideally, pilot villages should not be too close to one another, to allow more communities to learn from the
success of the activities. Pilot areas should coincide with administrative boundaries of sucos, although in
some cases (e.g., for watershed management) adjacent sucos may need to be counted as a single area.
In each district, the selection of pilot sucos will be made by a team led by the District Agriculture Officer,
including agriculture staff from the district and national levels, members of the Church, non-governmental
organizations working in the agriculture sector, and key stakeholders such as well-respected traditional
leaders and representatives of other related projects (e.g., the Community Empowerment Project). The
results of the selection would be made public.
The Project will help set up village facilitation teams, drawing upon the expertise of agriculture officers at
the national and district levels, as well as NGO facilitators. The initial visits to the pilot sucos are expected
to be done by multi-sectoral teams (such as members of the initial selection committee). Once the sucos
identify their initial priorities, the facilitation team could be adjusted to the areas of specialty necessary to
support implementation (e.g. forestry, fisheries, food crops, etc.). At least one facilitator per district should
be a woman to ensure that women groups are effective beneficiaries from the Project. NGO facilitators
will be paid at monthly rates, but no higher than salaries of district agriculture staff.
Applied Training. The Project will finance training of staff, NGO partners, and participating farmers
(including women), on participatory rural appraisal techniques, participatory land action, applied technical
subjects, and cross visits by farmers in support of the component activities.
3/ It may be noted that this combination of characteristics may not be found among the poorest, most isolated
upland communities. As the approach is being piloted, however, it will be essential to ensure that the selected
pilot communities result in early 'wins'. Good traditional leadership and solid governance are essential
foundations for strengthening community self-reliance, while ensuring that the most vulnerable groups (such as
women) are not overlooked.   This criteria could also help stimulate other neighboring communities to
strengthen their govemance to be eligible for follow-up projects.
4/ This would help ensure that assistance is provided primarily to those groups willing to take action to strengthen
their self-reliance.
- 51 -



Facilitation of Community Proposals. Following village meetings, the facilitation team will assist the
communities in drafting simple proposals outlining the assistance requested from the Project, as well as the
communities in-kind contribution (halulu) and arrangements for maintenance. Although the time required
for community facilitation can be high, this is essential to ensure ownership by the community. Separate
meetings will be held with groups of women to decide on their priorities. At least 50 percent of the
proposals submitted by pilot communities in each suco for consideration by the Project should be proposed
by women's groups.
Community Grants. The Project will provide grants according to the following criteria:
*      Grants could be between US$1,000 and US$10,000, with a maximum of US$20,000 per suco, or
up to US$125,000 per district.
*      The proposals for the grants should originate from the community.
*      Activities must benefit a large section of the community-preferably at the level of the aldeia
(sub-village).
Activities must encourage greater self-reliance, mutual support, and social harmony.
Activities should contribute to strengthen comrnunity resilience and decreased vulnerability to
extemal forces.
-      Activities should have a rapid implementation period.
-      Activities must show  community in-kind contributions and have a clear operations and
maintenance plan with the responsibilities clearly assigned.
Grants must be timely (e.g., planting cannot take place out of season).
-      Investments must not be likely to incur high recurrent costs.
-      Activities must be technically and financially feasible (to be reviewed by the appropriate agencies)
5/
*      Activities must be environmentally and socially sound (as verified against a checklist included in
the operational manual for the component).
*      Activities should not involve direct income generation to particular groups that would be best
funded through micro-credit programs.
5/
For example, in the case of water supply schemes, the design should be reviewed by Water and Sanitation staff.
In case of new infrastructure, by the Environmental Protection Unit to ensure no negative environmental or
social impacts.
- 52 -



Project activities could be of the following types:
Positive Menu                                         Negative Menu
(Activities which the Project could support)        (Activities which the Project would not support)
*      Community nurseries                      *      Salaries of government officials and council members
*      Community woodlots and agroforestry      *      Works for government administration or religious
*      Seed storage or seed banks                      purposes
*      Community infrastructure related to water   *   Inputs that benefit individuals or small groups (such as
management (e.g. water retention               livestock, vehicles, tractors, fishing gear, boats, motors)
facilities, and inter-village water systems)    *  Sit-in fees for workshops or payments for community
*      Watershed management                             inputs that are expected to continue to be needed after
*      Extensive aquaculture (e.g. carp, milkfish)      project completion
*      Community living fences                  *      Imported hybrids
(to protect crops from pests)          *      Pesticides, herbicides, fungicides and other chemical
*      Sustainable sloping agriculture,                 inputs
improvements in cropping pattems, and    *    Chainsaws or other equipment that may harm the
other environmentally friendly                 environment
technologies                           *      Explosives, asbestos, poisons and other dangerous
*      School based plots for children education        materials
*      Support for traditional law and traditional   *  Expenditures intended for military or para-military
systems of natural resources management        purposes (such as weapons or ammunitions)
*      Other activities not on the negative menu    *  Activities likely to have significant environmental or
that help strengthen the management of       social impacts (such as farming on steep slopes)
natural resources, as approved by the  *     Activities where funding is available from other sources
DAOs.                                         (such as road or irrigation rehabilitation, covered by
Component 2, or CEP-type activities) and other
income-generating activities that would qualify for
micro-credit support.
Proposal Approval and Fund Flow. After consulting with the offices of the District Administration,
DAA, and other relevant units (including The Environmental Protection Unit or EPU and the Water and
Sanitation Services Unit) to ensure that the proposals met the criteria for selection, the District Agriculture
Officers will certify the proposals and recommend them for approval to the PMU Director. The PMU
Director and the designated representatives of the Conselho do Suco will then sign the approved proposals.
The community grants will be provided through the District Financial Officers to the Treasurer of the
Village Councils (Conselho do Suco). The transfer of funds will be witnessed and countersigned by the
District Financial Officer, the Treasurer of the Village Council, the Chief of the Village Council, and at
least one well-respected traditional leader. The funds would be disbursed in three installments depending
on the specific proposal, including an advance of up to 40 percent of the value of the grants, an
intermediary payment upon verification of satisfactory progress, and a final payment upon verification of
completion of activities. The Village Councils will be responsible for the allocation of the funds to the end
recipients (such as particular farmners groups or traditional leaders chosen by the community). The
mechanism for the channeling of funds is outlined in further detail in Annex 6.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The Project will finance the costs of monitoring and evaluating the progress
of village activities under this component. To ensure accountability and transparency, the activities funded,
including the amount received and later the results attained, will be posted in bulletin boards displayed
- 53 -



prominently in the villages. Given its pilot nature, the results of the activities and the effectiveness of the
village institutional arrangements will be evaluated during the mid-term review to allow for adjustmnents in
the original approach and targets. Subject to a satisfactory evaluation at mid-term, the pilot activities could
be expanded to cover approximately 30 sucos (4-5 per district).
Project Component 2 - US$2.71 million
Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation
This component will seek to increase agricultural production and stimulate off-farm employment through
the rehabilitation of approximately 2,100 hectares of community-based irrigation schemes, 1,430 hectares
of larger irrigation schemes that have suffered light- to medium-damage, 100 kilometers of farrn-to-market
access roads, and the establishment of II Water User Associations (WUAs). The component will be
national in scale.
The component will finance civil works, services, training, and incremental operating costs in support of
the following activities:
*    Community-based irrigation schemes rehabilitation
*    Rehabilitation of larger light- to medium-damaged irrigation schemes
*    Feasibility study for major-damaged irrigation schemes
*    Community-based farm-to-market access roads rehabilitation
*    Establishment of Water User Associations including development of policy for operations and
maintenance of the rehabilitated schemes
*    Irrigation training
The component will be implemented by the Irrigation Unit of DAA, in close collaboration with District
Ifrrigation Officers and other relevant institutions.
Community-Based Irrigation Rehabilitation (US$0.4 million). This activity will target the rehabilitation
of about 2,100 hectares of small-scale irrigation schemes, to be implemented by local communities.
Following upon the model successfully developed under ARP I, the Project will provide small contracts
(averaging about US$160/hectare) to community designated entities (such as well respected village
representatives or religious organizations, depending on the beneficiaries' communities preference) for the
financing of community proposals for irrigation rehabilitation. These proposals will be checked by project
staff against acceptable technical specifications. Depending on the proposals, the Project could cover labor
costs (at prevalent rural wage rates) and constructions materials. The grants will be disbursed in three
installments, with an initial advance and payment benchmarks proportional to the work completed (see
Annex 6). As a condition for the approval of the proposals, the water users or their representatives (such
as the Conselho do Suco) will sign (or thumb print) an agreement outlining clearly their future obligations
for the schemes' operation and maintenance.
As in Component 1, the community proposals will be screened against a standard checklist included in the
Project Implementation Plan to ensure that they are enviromunentally and socially sound. The amounts
approved and weekly progress reports will be shown in bulletin boards displayed prominently in the
recipient villages. The works will be subject to periodic technical audits to monitor the use of the funds
and soundness of the rehabilitation.
- 54 -



Rehabilitation of Light- to Medium-Damaged Irrigation Schemes (US$1.5 million). The Project will
rehabilitate seven medium-scale irrigation schemes covering an estimated 1,430 hectares (average area to
be rehabilitated is 205 hectares) that suffered light- to medium-damaged as a result of the 1999 violence.
These schemes have been assessed as feasible from an economic, social, and environmental point of view
(see Annexes 4, 12, and 14). The proposed schemes are outlined below:
Packages                                    Schemes                Area (ha)
I (Bobonaro)                   Batugade, Marco, Cailaco/Meligo        400
2 (Baucau)                     Seixal Down                            430
3 (Oecussi)                    Naktuka, Tono, Oemathitu               600
Rehabilitation of these schemes will be contracted to qualified contractors, who will be encouraged to use
local labor and materials, and will be closely supervised throughout the works. The Project will also
employ a full-time Irrigation Advisor to assist the Irrigation Team at DAA in the oversight of the
component.
Feasibility Study for Major-Damaged Irrigation Schemes (US$0.2 million). The Project will support a
feasibility study of three major-damaged irrigation schemes in Baucau (Seical Up), Bobonaro (Maliana I),
and Viqueque (Oetelari). The schemes will be assessed using the following criteria:
*     The rehabilitation of the schemes should show an economic rate of return of at least 10 percent,
estimated through an economic analysis, and a robust sensitivity analysis allowing for at least 10
percent variation in production and input costs.
The rehabilitation should have no negative social or envirornental impact in the area.
The rehabilitation should benefit a large number of beneficiaries, and they should be willing to take
over responsibility for about 50 percent of the costs of regular operation and maintenance.
The schemes should have acceptable recurrent cost implications for the new Government.
Subject to the availability of funds and satisfactory appraisal by IDA, the schemes could be
rehabilitated under a US$3.0 million supplemental TFET allocation, which may become available
in early 2002.
Rehabilitation of Farmer-to-Market Access Roads (USS0.3 million). The Project will help communities
to rehabilitate an estimated 100 kilometers of existing farm-to-market access roads (at an estimated average
cost of US$2,700 per km) to bring them to a year-round passable status. The roads will be rehabilitated
according to technical standards developed under ARP I. Rehabilitation will be done by the communities
under grants following the same procedures as for the community irrigation sub-component (including
periodic technical audits and commitments for future operation and maintenance).
Establishment of Water User Associations (US$0.15 million). The Project will help establish about 1 1
Water Users Associations, through the provision of technical assistance and training on farmers'
organization, financial management, and operation and maintenance.  This activity will also fund the
development of a national policy for operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes, in close consultation
with other key stakeholders such as the Water and Sanitation Services Unit and the Environmental
Protection Unit.
Irrigation Training (US$0.1 million). Component 2 will include a modest allocation for continued
training of DAA and District Irrigation staff on selected irrigation management topics.
- 55 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 3.10 million
Services to Farmers
This component will provide essential services to farmers to help them bridge transitional difficulties
associated with lack of information, shortage of cash, and poorly working markets. It will also help
establish long-term private service delivery mechanisms that take into account the staffing and budgetary
constraints of the new Government.
The Project will finance civil works, goods, services, training and incremental operating costs in support of
the following sub-components:
*      Information to Farmers
*      Sustainable Animal Health Services
*     Pilot Agricultural Service Centers
Sub-Component 3.1. Information to Farmers (USS0 7 million)
This sub-component will provide information to farmers, and help establish a small Liaison Secretariat for
selected centers of the Consultative Group on International Agriculture Research (CGIAR) and other
relevant centers working on agriculture. The aim will to enable DAA to access appropriate global
information to support more effective two-way communication system  between isolated farmers,
Government staff, and NGOs. This is expected to result in a better channeling of Government assistance
and help establish effective linkages with centers of international expertise.
The sub-component will be managed by the Crop Production Unit of DAA, and will comprise two major
activities:
Information Programming (US$0.5 million). The Project will help develop information programs
addressing specific needs of the farmers (such as market and climatic conditions, timing of vaccination
campaigns, technical advice), disseminated through appropriate channels, such as radio, religious
organizations, markets, and mobile audio-visual units. Information programming will use appropriate
multi-media materials such as audio-visual units, posters, radio, leaflets, and slides. This activity will be a
continuation of the radio program and information campaign supported under ARP I. Dissemination
through religious organizations could be via short information sheets read after religious services,
concerning issues such as the timing of vaccination campaigns, and warnings regarding pests or diseases.
Dissemination in market areas might include information posted on boards or agriculture radio programs
broadcasted from small, portable amplifiers.6/
The Project will work closely with Radio UNTAET and CEP to ensure complementary with the community
radio stations established under the CEP. In addition, the Project will provide two mobile audio-visual units
to enhance the dissemination of information to rural areas. Information dissemination methods targeting
specific beneficiaries (e.g., women) will be evaluated periodically for their effectiveness.
The Project will also help maintain an Agriculture Web page in DAA and facilitate electronic links with
District Agriculture Offices. The focus will not be on providing Internet links per se but to improve
comnmunications between national and regional offices. This could be achieved, for example, through
standard electronic forns that would facilitate two-way reporting. It will be much more difficult to
establish links between agriculture staff and farmers, so that problems can be heard and solutions supplied
rapidly to the field. Particular attention will be paid during project implementation to facilitating these
links through appropriate communication channels.
6/ Market information could be mixed in with music and other programs so farmers would want to keep listening.
- 56 -



Establishment of a CGIAR Liaison Secretariat (US$0.2 million). In a country with isolated rural
communities and limited Government resources, electronic linkages with intemational centers of excellence
will become increasingly important. Such links will enable East Timorese officials contact intemational
experts via the Intemet to diagnose new plant or animal diseases, or identify suitable new crop varieties.
The Consultative Group of Intemational Agricultural Research is funding a group of 16 international
research centers (now organized into a group called "Future Harvest") specialized in such topics as rice,
maize, potatoes, forestry, and coastal resources. The foundation for establishing a small CGIAR
Secretariat already exists in East Timor with the "Seeds for Life" program funded by the Australian Center
for Intemational Agricultural Research (ACIAR), AusAID's upcoming Rural Development Program, and
the Portuguese-funded centers in Ermera and Aileu. The Project will build on these initiatives and provide
a technical liaison officer and computer equipment to establish a small CGIAR Secretariat at DAA. The
liaison officer should have excellent knowledge of the intemational centers and their various experts.
Initially, it is anticipated that the following centers would be of interest to East Timor:
CGIAR and Other International Research      General  Forestry   Crops    Livestock   Irrigation    Fisheries
Centers with Relevance to East Timor
IRRI        International Rice Research                        9/
Institute
ACIAR       Australian Center for          /                    /         /
International Agricultural
Research
CIP         International Potato Center                        V
CIMMYT    International Center for                             V
Improvement of Maize and
Wheat
CFOR        Center for International Forestry        V
Research
ICRISAT    International Crops Research                         /                     /
Institute for the Semi-Arid
Tropics
ICRAF       International Centre for Research        /          /         /
in Agroforestry
CIAT        International Center for Tropical                  V
Agriculture
ICLARM      International Center for Living                     /         /                       /
Aquatic Resources Management
AVRDC       Asian Vegetables Research and                       /
Development Center
AFED
SPC         Secretariat of the Pacific                                                            /
Commission (for tuna research)
ITTO        International Tropical Timber            9/
Organization
SEAFDEC   Southeast Asian Fisheries and                                                           /
Development Center
INFOFISH   Information Network for                                                                /
Fisheries
IOTC        International Tuna Commission                                                         /
CSIRO       Commonwealth Scientific and    /                             /
Industrial Research Organization
- 57 -



The Project will also provide for an estimated five person-months of relevant technical assistance from
these intemational centers, to be identified based on needs from the field. The CGIAR Liaison Secretariat
would be established in partnership with ACIAR and FAO, who have expressed interest in possibly
continuing to fund the Secretariat once East Timor becomes independent.
Sub-Component 3.2. Sustainable Animal Health Services (US$1.3 million)
This sub-component will support continuation of national vaccination for cattle, buffaloes, pigs, and
chickens. It will also help to establish a pilot system of trained private Village Livestock Workers to
provide basic veterinary services to communities, modeled upon a similar program in Cambodia. Once
trained, Village Livestock Workers could, assisted by participating local suppliers, assist farmers with
advice on the treatment of their animals, and use of veterinary medications.
The sub-component will be national in scale and be implemented by the Livestock Unit of DAA, in close
collaboration with District Livestock Officers. The Project will finance vaccines, equipment, starter kits,
training, services, and operational costs in support of two major activities:
*     Vaccination of buffalos, cattle, pigs, and chickens
*     Establishment of a System of Village Livestock Health Workers
Livestock Vaccination (US$0.8 million). Under this activity, the Livestock Unit of DAA will carry out
vaccination campaigns for cattle and buffalo for Brucellosis and Hemorrhagic Septicemia, and of pigs for
Classical Swine Fever (hog cholera), following upon the successful campaigns carried out during APR I.
Vaccination will be carried out by contracted private vaccinators. As in many other developing countries,
vaccination of animals against highly infections diseases will be fully subsidized by the Government (public
financing of vaccination campaigns has been included in ETTA's recurrent budget projections up to
mid-decade). Newcastle disease vaccine (eye-drop vaccine) will be provided three times a year to all
interested persons at the community level. District staff will train village women to administer the
Newcastle vaccines. This activity will be closely linked to the information to farmers sub-component to
inform communities of the start of the campaigns.
Village Livestock Workers (US$0.5 million). The Project will train 13 district-level trainers to help
develop a program of Village Livestock Workers (VLW). The target will be to train VLWs in two phases
starting with about 50 VLWs during the first year and 150 additional VLWs (one for each three sucos) in
the second year of the Project. VLWs will be provided with simple starter kits of equipment and veterinary
medicines, and will be retrained periodically (every six months). The VWL system is modeled upon the
successful para-veterinary program in Cambodia. The selection of VLWs will follow clear guidelines and a
transparent process. It is expected that candidate VLWs will be livestock owners with previous business
and/or service delivery experience. Village women candidates should be considered in the selection of
VLWs to be trained. With the assistance of the Project, VLWs will be expected to progressively establish
standard fee-based systems at the village level for simple services, such as the provision of medicines.
VLWs could also be contracted by the Government to deliver public vaccination campaigns. The Project
will also help establish a mentoring link between VLWs and District Livestock Officers to ensure
appropriate technical back-up, and help liaise with the PASCs or other private suppliers of drugs and
equipment to ensure availability and quality control.
- 58 -



Sub-Component 3.3. Pilot Agriculture Service Centers (US$1.1 million)
The Project will help consolidate and ensure full operation of three Pilot Agricultural Service Centers
(PASCs) that will have been established under ARP I. Subject to a satisfactory evaluation of the three
initial pilots, the Project will help establish an estimated 2-3 additional PASCs in other locations. As in
ARP I, this sub-component will be implemented by the Crops Production Unit of DAA, with guidance from
a specialized team of international advisors.
As originally designed, the PASCs will be farmer-owned, legal commercial entities (limited liability
companies, farmers or rural associations, etc.), designed to provide services and inputs required by the
communities the centers served - such as farm inputs, mechanization, veterinary services, and mechanical
repair. This design has been modified in ARP II to a Farmer Ownership Model (FOM) approach, where
links to output markets are first established, and then worked backward to support production and
processing. Under this approach, a vertically integrated farmer-owned agribusiness will first be established
and operated on a profitable basis for the benefit of its owners. The PASCs will focus on four basic
requirements for a successful enterprise: business structure and organization, access to working capital
finance, access to competitive output markets, and competent daily operations management.
It is envisaged that two types of PASCs will be established: (i) larger enterprises such as currently being
established under ARP I in Bobonaro (for the domestic rice market) and Viqueque (for candlenut export),
with processing facilities for rice milling or candlenut processing, and (ii) smaller, nucleus-type PASCs (in
Aileu) that would link to existing enterprises, and specialize in input provision, smaller-scale output
marketing, and commercial transport. The Aileu center, for example, is expected to be linked to the
NCBA/Cafe Timor Farmer Cooperative supported by USAID. Some of the production inputs to be
provided by the PASCs could include seeds, fertilizers, selected pesticides, veterinary supplies, and other
inputs based on local demand.
The Project will provide specialized technical assistance, the services of a PASC Manager and a
Sales/Marketing Specialist, training, vehicles, limited inputs, and civil works in support of the initial
establishment of the PASCs. A business plan will be prepared for each PASC, assessing crop production
potential, markets and buyers, financial forecasts, crop and project budgets, risk factors, PASC
membership and operations, the proposed location for the PASC, and training needs. Each PASC will have
an average membership of about 3,500 farmers, a small Board of Directors, and a Manager. A
Sales/Marketing Specialist will be responsible for identifying buyers, providing packaging materials, and
negotiating prices with farmers. During the first year of the Project, the costs of the Manager and
Sales/Marketing Specialists and their operation will be borne by the Project. Thereafter, marketing
services will be paid by the farmers in the form of a commission of the gross sales price. Each PASC will
be tailored closely to the local market conditions.
Given the pilot nature of the PASCs, a careful evaluation will be carried out after the first three PASCs
become fully functional and at mid-term before considering further expansion to establish new ones.
Project Component 4 - US$2.16 million
Program Management
This component will assist the new Govemment to evaluate key policy options on agriculture, rural
development, and natural resources management. It will also help build core skills among DAA staff,
district agriculture officers and their partners, and oversee the management of the Project.
- 59 -



The component will finance studies, technical assistance, workshops, goods, training, and operational costs
in support of the following two sub-components:
Policy and Strategy Development
*     Project Management
Sub-Component 4.1. Policy and Strategy Development (US$0.3 million)
This sub-component, which should be kept flexible given the political and institutional uncertainties of the
post-election period, is expected to fund four policy studies with the following outputs:
*     Policy options paper on food security, self sufficiency and agriculture growth
*     Policy options paper on rural development
*     Revised forest strategy
*      Coastal fisheries baseline report
The first two policy studies will be undertaken by short-term experts reporting to an Agriculture Working
Group led by the Director of DAA. The revised forest strategy will be carried out by a short-term Forestry
Advisor reporting to the Head of the Forestry Unit of DAA. The coastal fisheries baseline study will be
carried out by a small team of experts reporting to the Head of the Fisheries Unit of DAA. Extensive
consultation with stakeholders is expected in developing the policy option papers. The rural development
study will be completed last so as to consider and consolidate the results of the three other policy studies.
Close coordination with other donors should be made during the implementation of the studies. The
sub-component will also include a small amount of unallocated policy and strategy expertise to meet the
emerging needs of the new Govemment as they are identified.
Policy options study on food security, self sufficiency and agricultural growth. Much has been
discussed in recent times about the transition problems faced by farmers in East Timor. These include the
loss of traditional rice markets in West Timor, disruptions in retail chains and transport networks, decline
in government subsidies, and increase in fuel prices (affecting transport and mechanization). To better
inform the new Government of their policy options and lessons learned from other countries under similar
situations, the Project will help support a small study of the rice markets, the prospects for agricultural
growth, food security vs. food self-sufficiency issues, and the potential for mechanization of agricultural
production. The policy options paper will primarily be based on the results of emerging surveys (such as
the poverty study and the social assessment carried out under ARP II), and is expected to be discussed with
a wide range of governmental and non-governmental stakeholders.
Policy options study on rural development. This policy options study will investigate the prospects
towards a more integrated rural development strategy, including the optimal institutional set-up of the new
Government to address rural development issues that are responsive to the needs of the rural communities.
It will also analyze prospects to curb urban migration.
Revised forest policy and strategy. This activity will support a short-term Forestry Advisor (3-4 months)
to assist the Forestry Unit of DAA to prepare an updated forestry strategy that will meet the requirements
of the new Govermnent and European Union (EU), expected to become a major donor in the forestry sector.
- 60 -



Coastal fisheries baseline study. This study will carry out basic habitat mapping, an inventory of inshore
fishing vessels, and the viability of forming a system of user rights for community-based management of
inshore resources. The study will be carried out in close coordination with fisheries regulatory assistance
provided by AusAID.
Sub-Component 4.2 Project Management and Capacity Building(US$1.9 million)
This sub-component will provide overall management and coordination of the Project. It will also support
capacity building within DAA. The Project will finance equipment, vehicles, training, services, and
incremental operating costs in support of the following activities:
*      Improved transportation and office equipment for District Agriculture Offices
*     Training, workshops, and study tours
*     Core project management team
*      Monitoring and evaluation and general PMU operations
The Project Management Unit under ARP I will continue in ARP II under the direct responsibility of the
Director of DAA. Core staff in the PMU will include a Procurement specialist, Financial Management
specialist, Monitoring and Evaluation specialist, PMU Facilitator and External Program Liaison Officer.
The PMU will be supported by international Project Management advisors, Financial Management advisor,
Procurement advisor and Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor.
Improved transportation for District Agricultural Officers (US$0.7 million). One of the key problems
currently faced by District Agricultural Officers is lack of transportation. To date, most offices have only
two motorcycles for six district staff, and insufficient budget for their operation. CFET will allocate (under
counterpart funding) a total of 53 motorcycles and miscellaneous office equipment for the district
agricultural offices. In addition, four-wheel drive vehicles will be needed to reach distant communities
through difficult access roads, and for activities to be carried out close to the rainy season. The Project
will finance one four-wheel drive vehicle for each of the 13 districts agriculture offices, and two additional
vehicles for DAA to support core project activities. The assignment of vehicles to be procured by the
Project will follow clear guidelines and these assets should be considered as shared resource.
Training, workshops, and study tours (US$0.3 million). The Project will finance training, short-term
study tours, and workshops on project management and priority technical topics for DAA staff and NGOs
partners. Central training of DAA staff and NGO partners will be managed by the Training Coordinator
of DAA. Training of farmers and other beneficiaries will be coordinated by the relevant DAA unit
managing the specific project component to which the training is targeted.
The training modules will include social and gender issues to enhance the awareness and understanding of
DAA staff and district officers on how to deal with these issues at the field level. Other priority training
needs include project management and administration, environmental assessment, and integrated pest
management. A training needs assessment and plan is expected to be done prior to project implementation.
The training plan will be reviewed every six months and training courses will be continued or revised based
on the results. The Project will also provide short-term English language training for DAA staff and local
language training for foreign Project Management Advisors to facilitate communications.
Training in project management will be carried out in progressive modules, at regular intervals (every two
months), with each module addressing key aspects of project design and implementation - such as the
- 61 -



setting up the project planning, monitoring and evaluation system. The training modules should coincide
with regular project review workshops. A selected group of promising East Timorese could be trained to
become professionally certified project managers.
Core Project Management Management Team Unit (US$0.6 milion). Given the short time frame for
project implementation, the Project Management Unit will need a core Project Management Team
comprising the following positions:
DAA Counterpart Positions                              International Advisors
a Project Management Advisor
*  Procurement Specialist                          * Procurement Advisor
*  Financial Management Specialist                 * Financial Management Advisor
*  Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist            * Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor
* PMU Facilitator and External Program Liaison Officer
The role of the Project Management Advisor will be to assist the PMU Director and other project team
members in day-to-day project operations. The international advisors will not be decision makers. This
responsibility will rest from the start with East Timorese counterpart specialists. To ensure a rapid transfer
of responsibilities to East Timorese counterparts, international advisors will be evaluated every three
months to determine their performance and ability to transfer skills to local counterparts, who will in tum
be evaluated to determine their readiness to take on the responsibilities on their own. This will help ensure
that international advisors are retained primarily during the initial period (a maximum of 12 months) where
counterpart capacity may still require strengthening.  To account for periods of heavy procurement, the
Project will provide for an additional 3-4 months of procurement support on an as-needed basis.
Monitoring and evaluation and general operations (US$0.1 million). The Project will finance
incremental operating costs for the PMU and District Agriculture Offices, and regular monitoring and
evaluation activities. Some of the monitoring activities are expected to be contracted out to NGOs. This
activity should involve not only monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, but regular reviews of the
broader agricultural program and of other donor and NGO-funded programs.
- 62 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Local   Forei    - - Total''
Project Cost By Component-:                                  US; S  illion -
Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management   0.74       0.07         0.81
Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation                                0.84        1.49        2.33
Services to Farmers                                                 1.15       1.53        2.68
Program Management                                                 0.42        1.47        1.89
Total Baseline Cost                                                 3.15      4.55        7.71
Physical Contingencies                                          0.32       0.44        0.76
Price Contingencies                                              0.20       0.24        0.44
Total Project Costs                                                3.68       5.23        8.91
Local   Foreign-    Total
Project Cost by Financier                                  us $ million -
The Government (CFET)                                               0.5       0.33        0.91
TFET                                                                3.10       4.90        8.00
Total Project Costs                                                 3.68       5.23        8.91
Notes: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Does not include US$1 million managed by a separate ADB project for the rehabilitation of Hera Port.
- 63 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
A. Introduction
This annex provides an overview of the agriculture sector in East Timor as it relates to the proposed
investment and summarizes the cost benefit and sensitivity analysis of the Second Agriculture
U,
Rehabilitation Project. The detailed analysis can be found in a background document listed in the Project
Files (see Annex 8).
The Agriculture Rehabilitation Program was designed in 2000 to respond to sector priorities as identified
by East Timorese stakeholders and the November 1999 Joint Assessment Mission (JAM). The program
envisaged an extensive (US$8.6 million) investment in irrigation and agriculture roads rehabilitation. As a
result, a feasibility study of 22 light- to medium-damaged schemes was carried out under ARP I, and 13
schemes were identified for possible rehabilitation. The results of this feasibility study are included in "
Feasibility and Engineering Study in Respect of Rehabilitation of Identified Irrigation Schemes in East
Timor", by SNC Lavalin (see Project Files on Annex 8).
The Joint Agriculture Donors Agriculture Mission of March-April 2001, however, questioned the extent of
the proposed irrigation investment. This was based on emerging information about market uncertainties,
unavailability of essential inputs (e.g. fertilizers and pesticides), competition from imported foods, and the
lack of cash in the rural economy. Other concems related to the imbalance of the proposed investment
between lowland and upland areas, and the suitability of the design of the works for the hydrological and
fluvio-geomorphological characteristics of East Timor.
As a result of this mission, an extensive economic and sensitivity analysis was carried out on the proposed
irrigation works. Other project components were also analyzed in detail. The assumptions used in the
analysis were the result of extensive discussions over a five week period in East Timor with economists,
fiscal revenue experts, agronomists, agricultural scientists, East Timorese agriculture and district staff and
farmers. An economic internal rate of return of 10 percent (equivalent to the opportunity cost of capital)
was adopted as the acceptable minimum return on investment.
The results indicate that the project is feasible and robust to variations in major economic variables. At 10
percent opportunity cost of capital, the overall results show a rate of return of 20.6 percent with a net
present value (NPV) of about US$3.0 million. This analysis takes into account all project benefits and
costs with the exception of Component 1 (see Section D).
B. The East Timor Rural Economy
East Timor's agriculture was brought to a halt in many districts by the events following the 1999
referendum. Prior to these events, agriculture and its support activities (agro-processing and agricultural
input industries) employed about 75 percent of the workforce, contributed to 26 percent of the Gross
Domestic Product (GDP), and accounted for 90percent of foreign exchange. Agriculture's key position in
the economy created an imperative for rapidly rebuilding agricultural capacity for both food security and
income-generating reasons.
IL
This economic analysis covers only the IDA-administered project (US$8.8 million), and excludes the US$1 million
rehabilitation of Hera Port administered by ADB under a separate agriculture sector TFET grant
- 64 -



Figure 4.1 compares the economy of pre-referendum East Timor (1993-1999) with expected sectoral
contributions in the 2001-2005 period, as derived from discussions with the Central Fiscal Authority and
qualitative assessments. Prior to the referendum, construction and public administration and defense
accounted for 46 percent of total GDP. Both of these sectors were nearly entirely financed by the
Government of Indonesia (GOI). The sudden withdrawal of G01 activities following the 1999 referendum
left a large monetary vacuum that affected the availability of cash in all other sectors of the economy. The
level of traded agricultural activity also declined with a shift towards increased subsistence activities,
though this decline may not have been as dramatic as first suspected. Figure 4.1 shows the decline in total
GDP and sector contributions following the post-referendum civil disturbances in 1999. Indicative
forecasts show that the agriculture sector is projected to remain an important contributor to total GDP, at
least for the next Syears.
Figure 4.1: Sector Contribution to GDP in East Timor (1993-2005)
Sector Contribution to GDP in East Timor (1993-2005)
250.0
200.0
a.
150.0
s  100.0
50.0
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005
-          1. Agriculture                             -  3. Manufacturing industry
- - - - 5. Construction                             0    6. Trade, hotels, and restaurants
9. PRblic Admin. And Defence                 0    10. Private Services
Sources: Statistics Office of East Timor and ETTA Central Fiscal Authority
Figure 4.2 shows the relative importance of the different agriculture sub-sectors in East Timor. While
projections indicate a possible decrease in the relative contribution of food crops in the near future (due to
an anticipated emphasis on export commodities such as coffee and fisheries), absolute values show that
increased contributions to GDP from food crops are likely.
- 65 -



Figure 4.2: Relative Con tribution of Agriculture Sub-Sectors to the Agriculture GDP
(1998 and 2005- Projected)
1998       Forestry                           2005
2%       Fishery                          Forestry    Fishery
Livestock       /   3%                                1%   Al  7%
12                                          Livestock 
10%
Farm                                                                    Farm
nionfood   ~     ,Farm                                                   Food
crops                     Farm                  nornfood                crops
18%                        Food                 crops                   56%
crops                  26%
C. Overview of Current Grain Production, Consumption and Markets
Grain Production. Observations during field visits indicate that rice is being harvested and planted also
as a second crop in many regions, where circumstances allow. It may well be that at the moment, farmers
are keeping as much of the produced rice for themselves due to uncertain future and/or the inability to sell.
In the latter case, signals of slow market conditions would reflect in the following seasons and farmers
would produce less rice and agricultural products. In addition, farmers have developed risk averse behavior
resulting from climatic and political uncertainty. This has the effect also to narrow their cropping options
and adopted management practices and renders them more susceptible to seasonal fluctuations in
production. In addition, unreliable dry season rainfall and flows compounded by the necessity for constant
operation and maintenance to extract silt from irrigation canals currently prevent increased production of
rice. The rehabilitation of the proposed schemes and the operation and maintenance program under ARP II
are designed to address these water shortages.
Data collected by the Indonesian Governnent for 1991-1997 and the current Transitional Government for
2000 is shown in Figure 4.3. Production for Bobonaro and Oecussi districts in 2000 seems to be much
loweT than the average for 1991 to 1997. This may be related to the fact that these districts are on the
border with Indonesia, that West Timor was their principal market outlet, and that production was
interrupted to a greater extent during thel999 violence. Other districts show a small drop compared to
average production. Whilst it is possible that production data may be exaggerated, it may be reasonably
concluded based on available data that production of crops in East Timor has not significantly dropped
from long-term average figures except for some districts on the border.
- 66 -



Figure 4.3. Paddy production for 1991-1997 compared to 2000
Average year(1991-1997) and 2000 Paddy production (tons)
16000
14000
12000
10000
8000
6000
4000
2000
0
|QAverage (1991.1997) U2000|
Source: Indonesian Govemment (1991-1997) and UNTAET statistics (2000)
Similarly, maize production seems to have continued relatively unabated except for Bobonaro and Oecussi
(Figure 4.4).
Figure 4A. Maize production for 1991-1997 compared to 2000
Average Maize Production compared to 2000 in Er
Tons
30,000
20,000
5,000
lF 1991-1997M 200
Source: Indonesian Govemment (1991-1997) and UNTAET statistics (2000)
Grain Consumption. The estimated population of East Timor is presently 750,000. Based on rice
consumption figures in Indonesia (150 kg per capita per annum according to SNC Lavalin, pers. comm.)
and assumning a figure of 100 kg per annurn for East Timor to account for cultural differences, the potential
rice consumption could reach 115,000 metric tons (MT) per annum in the near future, assuming a 65
2!
percent yield of milled rice from paddy . Discussions with agricultural officers in Maliana indicate that
upland communities typically eat 70 percent maize and 30 percent rice. In urban areas, the mix is about
50:50. Field experience indicates that people are willing to eat rice or maize depending on what is available.
The decision to eat either rice or corn is not fixed and seemed to depend on availability and price. In a
typical East Timorese diet, 70 percent of daily energy needs are derived from cereals including rice and
maize, 9 percent from root crops, 10 percent from legumes, and only 2.1 percent from animal protein
sources (including fish, eggs, milk, animal oil and fat). This situation is likely to continue at least into the
next decade given the persistence of fanning methods and habits.
- 67 -



Local Rice Markets. During pre-appraisal, an assessment was made of the level of operation of local
markets to address concerns expressed by the March-April 2001 Joint Agriculture Donors Mission that
rural markets were not operating well, and that farmers were producing little more of what was needed for
their subsistence. Evidence collected during pre-appraisal suggests that the picture may be less clear-cut.
According to the World Food Programme , ".. . the overall food supply prospects in the medium to long
term (the 2000/2001 marketing year April/March) are less gloomy than envisaged at the height of the
crisis", although it is acknowledged that ".....country wide cereal trade remains minimal. Main items
found in the market are: vegetables, fruits, salt, sugar, benzene and basic household supplies".
According to the WFP report, the main districts where markets are not functional are Ainaro, Covalima,
Manufahi and Oecussi. It is probable that the level of market trade has decreased in mnany rural areas;
however, there was never much for sale at rural markets, even during the 1997-98 period. The fanning
community in East Timor has always been basically subsistence oriented.
Field discussions indicated that many farmers now keep a substantial part of their crop to ensure
subsistence until the next harvest. The reasons for this include (i) the pending election (end of August
2001), which contributes to political and civil uncertainties; and (ii) the absence of the Indonesian system
(which guaranteed a floor price for rice and secured markets for the farmers in other provinces). In
addition, the human networks necessary for the distribution and marketing of rice are not currently
established or operational.
It is unlikely that such essential links were fully developed during the period of the Indonesian government
administration. In effect, the Indonesian system relied on a very centralized collection and distribution
system for rice through Dili where the market was created by a guaranteed floor price, collection was
organized and re-distributed to markets outside East Timor, and rice from other provinces was sold in local
markets. Some local rice may have also been distributed to local markets. Following civil disruptions at the
time of the referendum and the collapse of the Indonesian government system, this artificial rice market and
distribution system stopped suddenly operating.
At the moment, rice traders have found a niche market selling mostly imported rice to buyers in the
mountains via existing road networks from Dili. However, local rice is not able to compete with imported
rice because it is not well connected to this network. Figure 4.5 below shows the availability of rice taken
from a recent census of 498 sucos in 13 districts throughout East Timor . Clearly, imported rice has a
more organized and direct network for distribution in most districts except Covalima and Viqueque.
Results from the 2001 household survey undertaken by ETTA's Census and Statistics Unit were not yet available at the
time of writing of this report.  A more detailed assessment of consumption patterns could be undertaken during
subsequent missions to East Timor once the survey results become available (in September 2001). The assessment
presented here is therefore preliminary.
3/
AO/WFP (1999). Crop and Food Supply Assessment Mission to East Timor. Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations and World Food Programme, December.
4/
This is based on personal experience of the project economist, who lived in East Timor in 1997-98. The situation is,
however, different in Dili. Markets are stocked with produce primarily due to the UN-driven economy. This situation may
not last once UN activities decline.
5'1
Census and Statistics Unit (2001). Survey of Sucos of Timor Lorosae (Agen Sensus dan Statistik Timor Lorosa 'e; Survei
Desa-Desa di Timor Loroso 'e). East Timor Transitional Administration (ETTA), Dili, East Timor.
- 68 -



Figure 4.5. Rice Availability in East Timor in Early 2001
s/100 -=%0  ti0
>80%
260%
40%
E  20%
o         E         v   2 ~                E 2. 
ED                        E  
0 ~  -J   0                                                     2
l o ampls w th iported nce available as percentage of total samples|l
1 Samlesw ih lcal rice available as percentage of total sampfes | 
Source: Census and Statistics Unit (2001). Survey of Sucos of Timor Lorosae.
Possible impediments to wider distribution and consumption of local rice also include (i) post harvest
processing, packaging, storage (ii) distribution problems including networks, roads and transport
infrastructure and (iii) uncompetitive costs of production for local rice against imported rice. A lack of
cash in the uplands may also prevent the purchase of more rice.
The recent suco census confirms that on average, local rice bought at markets and stores is cheaper or at
least on a par with imported rice (Figure 4.6). The average imported price for rice is Rp. 4,628/kg (ca.
US$463/MT), while local rice sells for an average Rp. 4,109/kg (ca. US$41 I/MT). Given that local rice is
on average cheaper with fully unsubsidized production, there is a reasonable ground for promoting local
varieties by developing rice growing capacity. The major benefits of substituting imported rice for local
rice include (i) sustaining significant portion of overall income for many farmers in East Timor  , (ii)
strengthening foreign exchange position, (iii) improving land value due to increased yields; and (iv)
improving equity.
6!
74% of farmers in Baucau, 21% in Bobonaro and 93% in Viqueque reported that rice growing was their main source of
income.
- 69 -



Figure 4.6: Prices of Local vs. Imported Rice in East Timor, early 2001
7000 -
6000
5000
j4000
3000
2000
1000
0
2                      E   0 m   *      .'
C Average price/kg (Local) O Average price/kg (Imported)
Source: Census and Statistics Unit (2001). Survey of Sucos of Timor Lorosae.
Development of irrigation is only one aspect of development of the rice growing industry in East Timor.
Post harvest processing, loss reduction, transport, and marketing are all important links of the chain. Road
conditions are not excellent, but are not significantly worse than during the pre-referendum period.
However, given the need to find local markets, a good local road network may become important for
improved distribution of crop products, more so than before the referendum when a larger proportion of the
rice was sold via main roads to markets outside East Timor.
D. Economic Analysis of the Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Component 1: Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
This component will adopt a program approach where each community proposal is assessed individually
against a set of criteria and a positive and negative menu (see Annex 2).  Since the proposals are not
identified up front, it is not possible to define specific descriptions, implementation costs, benefits, labor
used, and other inputs needed for a cost-benefit analysis. This is consistent with the approach taken by the
Community Empowerment Project (CEP) which notes that "analysis of cost and benefit or
cost-effectiveness is not as practical as it would appear under a typical grant or loan-financed
development project where inputs and outputs are determined at the project design stage".
However, a supplementary project analysis was done for ARP II that included the costs of this component,
while assuming no benefits gained (a worse case scenario). The analysis showed a NPV of US$2.3 million
and an EIRR of 18.4 percent. Thus, the project would still be viable in the unlikely event that the
component produced no benefits. It is expected, however, that the benefits to the community of
strengthened natural resource management practices and improved resilience would improve the overall
project EIRR of 20.6 percent and NPV of US$3.0 million.
- 70 -



Component 2: Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation
A cost-benefit and sensitivity analysis was carried out for all "light- to mediun-damaged" irrigation
schemes and community works supported by ARP II. The results are summarized below.
1. Rehabilitation of Light- to Medium-Damaged Irrigation Schemes.
Base Case Cost-Benefit Analysis. The seven schemes proposed for rehabilitation under ARP II have a
combined EIRR of 36 percent, and an NPV of US$1.3 million. Individual EIRRs are shown on table 4.1:
Table 4.1. Cost-Benefit Analysis of Light- to Medium-Damaged Irrigation Schemes
Scheme         District   Package  EIRR   NPV (US$)
Batugade       Bobonaro     3      35%     51,775
Marco          Bobonaro     3      46%     74,601
Cailaco        Bobonaro     3      25%     23,161
Naktuka        Oecussi      2      40%     99,902
Tono           Oecussi      2      43%    178,605
Oemathitu      Oecussi      2      39%    102,521
Seixal Down    Baucau       5      45%    246,934
Conservative estimates and assumptions were used in order to ensure a more realistic and robust analysis,
as provided by SNC Lavalin who carried out the Feasibility Study. The analysis included consideration of
(i) land use change, (ii) human resources and power, (iii) present and anticipated yield and cropping pattern
intensity, (iv) present and proposed farming practices and farning economy, (v) present and proposed
agricultural services, research centers, extension services including farmers' organizations, WUAs. In
addition, all costs associated with the rehabilitation of the schemes were included.
However, costs associated with (i) capacity building and irrigation training; (ii) market strengthening; (iii)
water resources management; (iv) information to farmers; (v) policy and strategy; and (vi) PASCs were not
included in the analysis of the irrigation schemes, despite conferring significant benefits to the irrigation
schemes. This accounts for the slightly high EIRRs shown on Table 4.1. At the same time, it prevents
double counting, as the costs of these activities (which confer benefits across all project components) were
included in the overall cost-benefit analysis of the project.
It is probable that during the first year, the only benefits of the rehabilitation works would come from an
increase in the irrigated area and increased cropping pattern, as estimated by SNC Lavalin  . for each
individual scheme. Thereafter, it was assumed that yields would increase incrementally from an average of
1.5 MT/ha to about 3.0 MT/ha over five years as a result of the improved farming practices introduced by
the combined project interventions listed in (i) to (vi) above.   Thus the expected increase in total
production of rice in the project area will accrue from the combined effects of (a) an increase in total
irrigated area brought about by increased water supply to the schemes and better O&M of the schemes, (b)
an increase in productivity per hectares brought about by factors listed in (i) to (vi) above, and (c) an
increase in productivity of land due to the ability to irrigate land in the dry season ensuring adequate water
supply for the crops. In the past, during the dry season, second crops were only planted if the rain was
sufficient.
- 71 -



Figure 4.7 below is derived from field data compiled by SNC Lavalin in their feasibility study. It shows
that the ability to plant a second crop will boost yield significantly in all the schemes by about 1.5-2
tons/ha. This is typically the current yield obtained by farmers as confinned by site investigations carried
out by SNC Lavalin over a period of several months in the project area. In addition, Figure 4.7 also shows
further potential improvements in yield that will accrue from such factors as improved management, and
farming practices (called "other factors" in Figure 4.7).
Figure 4.7: Contribution of increased cropping intensity and other factors on yield improvements
3.5
3
2.5
0
0.5
0
Cailaco     Batugade       Tono       Oemnathitu     Marco      Se! xal Downt
IEl Cropping Intensity * Other factorsI
For example in Cailaco, yields during the wet season were around 1.5 MT/ha. Improved irrigation will
ensure that this yield is sustained during the dry season whilst previously only one crop was possible during
the wet season. In the dry season, yields will increase from 0 MT/ha to about 1.5 MT/ha. In addition,
improvements in farming practices including improvements in seeds   and the use of more modem
agricultural practices should result in yields of about 3 MT/ha both during the wet and dry seasons.
Sensitivity Analysis. Typical sensitivity analyses assess the effects of adverse changes on an investment
subject to uncertainty, by varying the economic value of one or more selected input variables and
calculating the resulting changes in NPV or EIRR. For example, if fertilizer prices increased two-fold, the
effect of such change would affect the overall viability of the proposed schemes because of increased costs
of inputs. However, if farmers started using less fertilizers as a result, production would decrease but it is
not possible to say by how much because the effect of lower fertilizer input on crop growth is dependent on
the type of crop, soil types, water availability, etc.
SNC Lavalin (2001). Feasibility and Engineering Study in Respect of Rehabilitation of Identified Irrigation
Schemes in East Timor. East Timor Transitional Administration Division of Agricultural Affairs, Dili, East
Timor
Whilst the project does not directly support seed improvement, such changes are expected to happen by market
driven incentives once other project components such as the PASCs, training programs and information to
farrners are put into place.
- 72 -



An economic sensitivity analysis may not capture a non-linear relationship between these variables, or the
intricacies of farming systems in East Timor. 2  However, it can be useful to investigate the effects of
lower production on the viability of the schemes without necessarily linking this quantitatively to lowered
inputs (see scenarios 2 and 5 discussed below).
In order to carry out the sensitivity analysis, field visits were undertaken for four days to 3 schemes
proposed under ARP II, and 2 proposed under ARP 1. The field visits revealed the following
socio-economic parameters that needed to be considered in the sensitivity analysis: (a) impact of transport,
marketing and distribution constraints; (b) impact of higher costs of production; (c) impact of rehabilitation
cost overruns; (d) impact of poor construction design; (e) impact of poor operation and maintenance; (f)
impact of delays in project benefits; and (g) impact of changes in climate (e.g. droughts or floods). These
were, in turn, grouped into five sensitivity scenarios, as follows:
* Scenario 1: Base Case conditions (all benefits and costs as expected): 180 percent cropping
pattern with yield increasing from 1.5 MT/ha to 3.0 MT/ha from year 4 onwards.
* Scenario 2: One crop only with yields increasing from 1.5 MT/ha to 3.0 MT/ha from year 4
onwards.
v Scenario 3: A one year delay in increased production (i.e. Base Case production continues for 2
years).
* Scenario 4: An increase of 25 percent in rehabilitation and operation and maintenance costs.
* Scenario 5: A decrease in rice production of 25 percent.
Scenarios 2 and 5 model a reduction in production. This could happen due to lower than expected
operation and maintenance which would affect, among others, the rate of silting which would reduce the
transmission capacity of the canals. Similarly, lower quality designs and construction would reduce water
availability to crops. Changes in climate (such as a drought) would have similar impacts, as would
increasing competing uses for water upstream. Lower water availability for a single or combination of
these factors would lower the cropping index resulting in lower crop production (MT/ha). In addition, lack
of fertilizers, pesticides, or information on weather, soils, and farming techniques would also result in lower
production than might otherwise be possible. In reality, various permutations of these factors might occur
in any one season.
Scenario 3 investigates the effect of a one year delay in benefits. This would cause production to not
increase after the first year as modeled for the Base Case case (where benefits accrue immediately after
rehabilitation through an expansion in the irrigated area).
Scenario 4 models increases in the costs of production. Costs of inputs such as fertilizers, seeds,
agrochemicals pesticides, rodenticides, and labor will increase the total cost of production and lower the
unit net production value ($/ha) for each crop harvested. Thus, net production value would be lower,
reducing the benefits of the project. Field discussions with farmers confirmn that inputs of fertilizers are
lacking and that rodents and pests can quickly ruin a season's crop. Knowledge of usage of these chemicals
appeared limited, highlighting the importance of information to farmers. Most of these inputs are likely to
come from Indonesia or other neighboring countries, and will be influenced by exchange rate issues and
affordability in comparison to local production.
9/
An example is the way farmers associate at harvest time, where one family may provide the buffalo, another the land,
others the labor. Benefits are distributed based on a system of shares. Landowners, however, may not have an incentive
to increase fertilizer use given that the benefits do not proportionally revert to them directly, but may go to others (e.g. the
buffalo owner) in the form of a higher share (B. Palmer, pers. com.).
- 73 -



The results of the sensitivity analysis are outlined in the table below.
Table 4.2. Results of Sensitivity Analysis on Light-to-Medium Damaged Irrigation Schemes
EIRR                                 NPV (US$)
Scenarios
District   Scheme    1)    2)    3)    4)  5)           1)      2)       3)       4)      5)
Bobonaro Batugade    35%   23%   26%   28% 200/o    51,775    5,485   21,207   28,754  (1,689)
Bobonaro Marco      46%   32%   35%   39% 28%        74,601   42,813   44,268   57,682  (23,416)
Bobonaro Cailaco    25%   15%   18%   18%/o 11%      23,161  (34,701) (17,612) (19,243) (43,669)
Oecussi  Naktuka     40    21    31    33  30    99,902    6,674   54,482   71,041   36,785
Oecussi  Tono        43    25    33    36  34    178,605   28,163  102,638  135,911   82,072
Oecussi  Oemathitu    39    22    30    32  30    102,521    4,156   52,851   73,137   39,404
Baucau  Seixal Down 45%   21%   36%   39D/o 12%    246,934  (1,872)  153,547  204,961  (40,434)
Notes: Scenarios are as follows:
I )     Base Case
2)      One crop only
3)      One year delay in production
4)      25% increase in costs
5)      25% decrease in production
The schemes selected for rehabilitation are generally robust to variations in key parameters. An additional
scheme (Laivai in Lautem) was eliminated at pre-appraisal due to a marginal base case EIRR (12 percent)
and high sensitivity. Nonetheless, all schemes are sensitive to declines in production. Though the
conservative yield assumptions used in the base case make a 25 percent decline in production unlikely,
close monitoring will be needed to ensure that production benefits accrue as expected.
Future agriculture policies will probably be the single most important factor determining the future
sustainability of the investments.   The directions of the new  Government remain undeternnined.  As a
nation in transition, still subject to a high level of political uncertainty and where infrastructure remains in
disrepair, the role of relatively small infrastructure projects such as the proposed irrigation schemes,
capable of boosting local production of staple foods, should be considered seriously. At the same time, the
schemes have been phased so that they will be rehabilitated only during the 2002 dry season, when the
policy strategy studies supported by ARP II will be completed and the future policy directions of the new
Government increasingly clear. This should help ensure the future viability of the investments.
2. Rehabilitation of Community Irrigation Schemes
Base Case Cost-Benefit Analysis. The community irrigation schemes proposed under the project have a
combined EIRR of 26 percent and a NPV of US$149,000.
The analysis took into account the estimated costs of rehabilitating the schemes, and a total recurrent cost
estimate "with project" of about US$10,000/year for the 4,232 hectares of design area (about US$2.3/ha)
mostly in the form of community voluntary labor. "Without project" contributions were assumed to be
about half of that due to lower awareness of the benefits of operation and maintenance.
- 74 -



The design area of the schemes can be divided between functional and rehabilitated areas. Functional areas
need minor works repaired to improve the existing production. Such repairs were assumed to produce a
benefit of about 10 percent in terms of increased production over the entire functional area. Rehabilitated
areas are usually unproductive areas that have insignificant or no irrigation water supply. Rehabilitation
was assumed to increase yields by 100 percent in these areas by ensuring that water reached the fields even
in the dry season. That is an improvement from Otlha to an average 1.5 MT/ha which results from the
ability to plant two crops on the same land in every year.
Similar to the assumptions considered for light-to-medium damaged schemes, it was estimated that during
the initial year of implementation, benefits would accrue due to increases in irrigated areaand increased
cropping intensity only. As farm management, knowledge and skills improve, together with access to better
information, the yield was estimated to increase from 1.5 MT/ha to 3.0 MT/ha in five years including
during the dry season.
The analysis indicates that in general, communities in the project area would benefit from improved crop
production, higher income and/or improved nutrition.
Sensitivity Analysis. The sensitivity analysis indicates that if rice yields were to be reduced by 25 percent,
the EIRR would be reduced to 15 percent and the NPV to US$33,279. The impact on the overall project
would be a reduction of the EIRR to about 20.4 percent and of the NPV to US$2.8 million.
3. Rehabilitation of Community Farm-to-Market Access Roads
The rehabilitation of 100 km.of community access roads has an EIRR of 22 percent and a NPV of about
US$88,000.
Base Case Cost-Benefit Analysis. The engineering cost estimates and locations of the proposed road
segments were reviewed and included in the cost benefit analysis. Benefits derived from the improved
roads and operation and maintenance were derived using the population method of benefit estimation for
10/
roads with access constraints developed under the IBRD Rural Roads 2 Project for similar road
conditions in Indonesia, and adjusted for 2001 using the assumptions of table 4.3:
Table 4.3. Assumptions Used in the Estimation of Road Rehabilitation Benefits
Parameter                                  Value Assumed (Rp.)
Total Incremental Benefit (Rplkm)                200
Total Length of Roads Rehabilitated (Krn)         100
Operation and Maintenance Costs (Rp/km)        2,000,000
Number of daily trips on rehabilitated roads      151
Number of daily trips on non-rehabilitated roads  55
Most roads proposed for rehabilitation are irrigation scheme-to-market roads and therefore will benefit the
target population by allowing more efficient access to the domestic markets. As seen previously,
unavailability of rice in upland markets is partially due to poor road condition, especially during the wet
season.
LO/
See World Bank (1994), Project Appraisal Document for National Watershed Management and Conservation Project.
Washington, DC.
- 75 -



Sensitivity Analysis. If the traffic on the rehabilitated and non-rehabilitated roads in the project area was
reduced by 10 percent, the EIRR of this activity would be reduced to 16 percent with the NPV reduced to
US$32,000. As a result, the project EIRR would fall to 20.4 percent and the NPV would drop to US$2.9
million. This may happen if the price of fuel were to increase further or if traffic was restricted due to
security reasons, though the latter would probably be a short-term effect.
4. Rehabilitation of Major Damaged Schemes
Base Case Cost-Benefit Analysis. The initial reconnaissance level pre-feasibility study for three major
damaged schemes in Seixal Up (Baucau), Maliana I (Bobonaro) and Uatulari I (Viqueque) indicate EIRRs
of 17 percent, 16 percent and 23 percent, respectively. These are preliminary figures provided by DAA
consultants and will need to be reviewed during the proposed feasibility study for these schemes, to be
undertaken through ARP II. Since the rehabilitation of these schemes is not part of the ARP II grant, the
cost-benefit has not been included in the overall project analysis.
Component 3: Services to Farmers
1.    Information to Farmers
The benefits of this sub-component were modeled in the economic analysis by assuming that they would
contribute (i) to the increase in yield in the rehabilitated irrigation schemes, and (ii) to an improvement in
animal population growth for vaccinated livestock. The rationale is that the immediate improvement in the
rehabilitated schemes may be primarily an increase in the irrigated area. As farmers receive improved
information, however, strengthened farm management practices would likely lead to the increases in the
cropping intensities (1.5 MT/ha to 3.0 MT/ha) assumed by the analysis. Similarly, for the vaccination
campaigns, better information is likely to improve the success of the campaign by ensuring a more
universal coverage of the target population. The expected net benefits for the Information to Farmners
sub-component is thus tied to the overall results of Component 2 and the Sustainable Animal Health
Services sub-component (see below).
2. Sustainable Animal Health Services
Base Case Cost-Benefit Analysis. The estimated net benefits of vaccination campaigns are as follows:
Table 4.4. Estimated Economic Benefits of Vaccination Campaigns
Campaign        Estimated Mortality Decline    EIRR    NPV (US$)
due to Vaccination
Chickens                 50%             30%            185,000
Pigs                     20%             28%            207,400
Cattle & Buffaloes      10-15%           25%            200,300
The analysis assumed conservatively that 10 percent of the animals vaccinated would die anyway. In the
"without project" scenario, it was assumed that animal populations were in equilibrium. In the "with
project" scenario, it was assumed that mortality would be slightly reduced and birth rates improved (by
about 12 percent for chickens, 2 percent for pigs, and lpercent for cows and buffaloes) for a period of two
years following the vaccination, after which a new population equilibrium would be reached. Mortality
reduction rates were as projected by the project impact indicators (see table 4.4).
- 76 -



All investment costs for the sub-component were taken into account in the cost-benefit analysis. The
recurrent costs of vaccination campaigns are estimated to be in the order of US$0.30 per pig, USS0.12 per
chicken, and US$0.93 per cattle and buffalo. The costs of a dose of vaccine to the project - including
vehicle, equipment, materials, training, workshops, and consulting services - are estimated at US$0.80 per
pig, US$0.40 per chicken, and US$1.90 per cattle and buffalo, decreasing to US$0.70, US$0.30 and
US$1.6 in year two of the project. It was also assumed that the government would invest on a system of
village livestock workers and continue to promote the benefits of animal health care, while the fanners
would pay for the costs of vaccines in the future. Thus, the government's contribution was estimated at
about 62 percent of recurrent costs. It is believed that there is a strong advantage for the government to
continue to invest in conumunity education given the high value of the livestock and their role in society
compared to the potentially devastating effects of epidemics.
In fact the benefits of vaccination are not fully reflected in the analysis (because it fails to consider public
benefits derived from the vaccination of privately owned cattle) due to the difficulties in quantifying such
spill-over effects. These might include (i) farmers benefiting from disease eradication without themselves
vaccinating their animals but relying on other farmers to go through the expense, (ii) increased domestic
and export markets (e.g exports and higher price following disease control or eradication), (iii) food safety,
and food security, (iv) environmental effects, (v) human public health benefits such as in the case of
brucellosis.
Sensitivity Analysis.  Table 4.5 below gives the sensitivity analysis of a 10 percent and 20 percent
increase in the costs of the vaccination carnpaigns. A 10 percent increase in the overall cost of vaccination
would lower the total project EIRR to 20.2 percent and the NPV to US$2.88 million, whilst a 20 percent
increase in vaccination costs would lower the EIRR to 19.8 percent and the NPV to US$2.76 million. Such
changes are not unlikely given the uncertain exchange rate position in East Timor and the necessity to
import the vaccines and related equipment. However, both the individual vaccination campaigns as well as
the overall project remain strongly viable if the target population of vaccinated animals is reached.
Table 4.5. Sensitivity Analysis for Vaccination Campaigns
Base Case                10% Increase in        20% Increase in
_Vaccination Costs     Vaccination Costs
Campaign          EIRR   NPV (US$)      EIRR    NPV (US$)      EIRR    NP V (US$)
Chickens           30%     184,997       25%       135,381       16%     42,178
Pigs              28%      207,402       22%       139,143       17%     70,884
Cattle & Buffaloes   25%   200,255        18%      102,344       12%      2,108
3. Pilot Agriculture Service Centers
Base Case Cost-Benefit Analysis.  Under ARP II, three PASCs will be established in Viqueque, Aileu
and Bobonaro. These will continue to be supported under ARP II. Subject to a positive evaluation of the
first pilots, the project could support an additional 2-3 PASCs. The cost-benefit analysis for this
sub-component indicates an EIRR of 32 percent and an NPV of just under US$1.5 million.
The analysis is preliminary and based on target incremental benefits in the form of income generated from
PASC activities, annual operation expenses derived from simnilar operations in Mexico, El Salvador,
Honduras, Nicaragua, Zambia, Ghana, Madagascar, Tanzania, Niger, and Tajikistan. The analysis
assumes that in the "without project" case, farmers sell insignificant amounts of products and keep most of
it for their own consumption. Hence, benefits in the "without project" scenario are assumed to be zero.
- 77 -



There are approximately 3,500 farmers in each of the three PASCs being established. Personal income is
assumed to increase to US$150 per farmer in the third year of the project, a very conservative estimate
based on the experience of similar operations in the 10 countries above. The initial capital investment on
the PASCs was assumed to be US$1 million over a period of two years of the ARP II project life.
Sensitivity Analysis. A 10 percent decrease in the income rise in years 2 to 10 would cause the NPV of
the PASC sub-component to decrease to US$1,430,595 and the EIRR to fall to 31 percent. The overall
effect on the project would be a reduction of the NPV to US$2.9 million and of the EIRR to 20.3 percent.
Such a reduction might occur as a result of lowered market access for products sold by the PASCs. In this
respect, the success of the PASCs will depend on (i) post harvest processing; (ii) the establishment of
distribution networks; (iii) the establishment of effective road and transport networks; and (iv) competitive
production costs of local produce.
Component 4: Program Management
The benefits of this component are assumed to be reflected in the other project components. The
component costs have been included in the overall project economic analysis.
A summary of the cost benefit and sensitivity analysis for the entire Project is included below.
-78 -



Table 4.6. Summary Economic and Sensitivity Analysis for the ARP II Project
(NPV in US$'000)
Impact of Sensitivity Scenarios on
Base Case                Sensitivity Analysis                 Project Viability
ProjectActivities                           EIRR        NPV            EIRR          NPV               EIRR             ANPV
Total Project                               20%         3.0
L Pilot Participatory Dev. and NRM                                                                     17%                1.4
IL. Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation
A. Light-to-Medium Irrigation Schemes
Batugade                                 35%         51.8
25% higher cost                                                   28%           28.7
25% lower production                                              200/%         (1.69)
Marco                                    46%         74.6
25% higher cost                                                   39%            57.6
25% lower production                                              28%            (23.4)
Cailaco                                  25%         23.2
25% higher cost                                                    18%           (19.2)
25% lower production                                               11%           (43.6)
Naktuka: (Base Case)                     40/        99.9
25% higher cost                                                  33%            71.0
25% lower production                                             30%            36.8
Tono                                     43%         28.1
25% higher cost                                                   36%            135.9
25% lower production                                              34%            82.1
Oemathitu                                39%          102.5
25% higher cost                                                   32%            73.1
25% lower production                                              30%            (39.4)
Seixal Down                              45%         246.9
25% higher cost                                                    39%            204.9
25% lower production                                               12%            (40.4)
B. Community Irrigation                    26%         149.0
25% lower production                                               15%            33.3             20.3%              2,870
C. Community Roads                         22%         88.0
10% lower traffic                                                  16%            32.0             20.4%              2,930
IML Services to Farmers
A. Sustainable Animal Health Services                                                                 19.8%              2,765
Chickens Vaccination                     30%          185.0
20% higher vaccination costs                                       16%           42.2
Pigs Vaccination                         28%         207.4
20% higher vaccination costs                                       17%            70.9
Cows and Buffalos Vaccination             25%         200.0
20% higher vaccination costs                                        12%           42.1
B. PASCs                                   32%          1,500
10% decline in income                                              31%            1,430            20.3%              2,870
E. Assessment of Fiscal impact and Financial Sustainability
From the total USS 1.2 million calculated for recurrent costs, the communities and government's
contribution is estimated at about 31 percent or US$ 371,000. The rest would be provided by the private
sector, particularly for the operation of the PASCs. This level of financial commitment is approximately 31
percent of estimated total recurrent budget for DAA for the FY2001/02 financial year. Assuming US$ 1.5
per day for laboring wage rates, this represents about 2.2 days per capita per year labor commnitment in the
project areas. Given that many children cannot contribute, this may increase to 7 to 10 days per year per
family.
- 79 -



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The benefits of this component are assumed to be reflected in the other project components. The
component costs have been included in the overall project economic analysis.
Main Assumptions:
See main assumptions in text.
Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
See sensitivity analysis for each component.
- 80 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
FY Years Ending 2002 to 2004 (during project implementation)
(US$ Millions)
1 -meniailn Period-           -       l
Fiscal Year                                       F iY01102     |  FY02103   |    FY03104
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                              3.83               3.91           0.34
Recurrent Costs                               0.34               0.41           0.08
Total Project Costs                              4.17                4.32           0.42
Total Financing                                  4.17                4.32           0.42
Financing
TFET                                          3.65               4.00            0.35
The Government                                0.52               0.32            0.07
Total Project Financing                          4.17               4.32           0.42
FY Years Ending 2002 to 2011 (During Project Implementation and After Closing of Grant)
(US$ Millions)
, - n ~~~~~~~Opmalfa i lo
Fiscal Year       FYoI102  FYo2M03  FYo3/04   FYo4/05   FYO5/o6  FYO6/07  FYD7/08   FY08109  FY09/10  FY10111
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs      3.83      3.91     0.34
Recurrent Costs       0.34     0.41      0.24      0.24       0.24      0.24      0.24      0.24     0.24      0.24
Total Project Costs      4.17     4.32      0.58
Total Financing          4.17     4.32      0.58      0.24       0.24      0.24      0.24      0.24     0.24      0.24
Financing
TFET                 3.65      4.00      0.35
The Govemment        0.52      0.32      0.35      0.35       0.35      0.35      0.35     0.35      0.35      0.35
Total Project           4.17      4.32      0.70      0.35       0.35      0.35      0.35     0.35      0.35      0.35
Financing
Note:  Recurrent cost financing in FYo3/04 differs between project implementation (first table, above) and operational period (second table, above) because
project implementation includes only the first half of FY03/04.
- 81 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Procurement
A. Introduction
The procurement of civil works and goods will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999. Standard Bidding Documents will be used for all Bank-financed procurement. Selection of
consultants and formats for consultants' contracts will be done in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999, and on Standard Requestfor Proposal guidelines dated July 1997 and
revised in April 1998 and July 1999. The procurement methods to be used for the Project are indicated in
Table A of this Annex.
Implementation. The Division of Agricultural Affairs (DAA), supported by a core Project Management
Unit (PMU), will carry out all procurement under the Project. The Logistics/Contract Administrator of
DAA, with the support of a Local Procurement Specialist and an intemational Procurement Advisor, will
be responsible for the implementation of the agreed procurement plan based on the Procurement Operations
Manual prepared for the Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP), to be updated for the Project as a
condition of effectiveness of the Grant. The concerned Units within the DAA are expected to provide
technical support for their respective areas of specialization.
Advertisement. A General Procurement Notice has been published in the August 31, 2001 issue of
Development Business announcing works, goods, and consultants services to be procured and inviting
eligible contractors, suppliers, and consultants to express interest to contracting opportunities, and to
request any complementary information from DAA. In addition, specific procurement notices will be
published in newspapers and/or Development Business, depending upon the value of the contracts.
B. Summary Procurement Assessment
An assessment of the procurement capacity of DAA was carried out in accordance with the Office
Memorandum from the Manager of the World Bank Procurement Unit of the Operational Core Services
Network (OCSPR) dated August 11, 1998. The assessment involved a review of the procurement policies
and procedures adopted and implemented by the executing agency. The assessment took largely into
consideration IDA's experience with the on-going Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP I).
In general, the rules and regulated relating to procurement implemented at DAA adhere to the principles of
competition and are intended to promote faimess, economy, efficiency, and transparency. However, there
are certain rules, regulations and practices which may not fully support these principles in procurement
transactions. The Project should not be affected because of waiver in the Transitional Administration's
rules and regulations.  The overall procurement risk assessment is high. The main risks concem the
inadequate procurement staffing and function, lack of proper planning, unsystematic record keeping, weak
collaboration among implementing units, and lack of an internal audit function to carry out effectively the
implementation of procurement for the Project.
- 82 -



To mitigate these risks, a series of actions have been or will be taken by DAA. These include:
* Engaging the services of a full-time Procurement Specialist and an international Procurement Advisor
(by Grant effectiveness), assisted by a short-term procurement technical expert to provide additional
support on critical areas and periods, and to provide and/or identify training opportunities for DAA
staff;
* Finalization of the procurement plan and regular updating thereof (every quarter);
* Setting up a more systematic and comprehensive system for procurement and contract documentation
and filing, which will be reflected in an Accounting and Procurement Manual (by Grant effectiveness).
*  Improving collaboration among procurement, financial and operations units on the various stages of the
procurement cycle, through the hiring of a Project Management Advisor (by Grant effectiveness); and
* Setting up an intemal audit function and arrangement within the DAA to (a) provide checks and
balances, and (b) ensure that procurement transactions are all in order, and that the deliveries of goods,
works and services are in accordance with the provisions of the contract, particularly for
deliver/completion, quantities, and quality.
C.    Procurement Methods (Table A)
i. Procurement of Civil Works (US$2.0 million)
Civil works include the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and farm-to-market access roads under the
Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation component, and the rehabilitation of buildings for the Pilot Agricultural
Service Centers (identified as 'Others' in Table A). The updated Procurement Operations Manual will
include samples of bidding documents, consistent with the World Bank procurement guidelines and
requirements, and specifically designed for small works. For rehabilitation of larger irrigation schemes,
procured under intemational competitive bidding procedures, the Bank's standard bidding docunents will
be followed.
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB). ICB procedures will be used for three contracts for civil
works for the rehabilitation/construction of selected light- to medium-damaged irrigation schemes with an
estimated aggregate cost of about US$ 1.1 rmillion. Prequalification of bidders and domestic preference will
not be proposed under these contracts.
(b) Procurement of Small Works (PSW). Procurement of small works will be used for the construction
of the Pilot Agriculture Service Centers. These works will involve contracts estimated at less than
US$100,000 each, up to an estimated aggregate cost not to exceed US$0.2 million. Procurement of small
scale works will be under lump sump, fixed price contract awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation will
include a detailed description of the works including basic specifications, the required completion date, a
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and relevant drawings where applicable. The award will be made
to contractor offering the lowest price quotation for the work and who has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully. The capacity of local contractors is sufficient to carry out the works,
and is anticipated to grow further as more foreign companies has established offices in the country. There
- 83 -



are a number of local contractors presently engaged in the construction, repair, and renovation of buildings
and roads in East Timor.
(c) Community Participation Procedures (CP). Community participation procedures will be allowed for
the rehabilitation of small irrigation and farm-to-market access roads. These contracts are estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 equivalent each, for an estimated aggregate of about US$0.7 million and a
L/
maximum of US$0.85 million.    These works will be a continuation of the successful community
irrigation and road rehabilitation undertaken under ARP I, for which the contracting mechanisms are
already well developed (see "Financial Management, Section D. Fund Flow" in this annex). The
communities themselves will provide labor and materials, which will be costed at prevalent market rates.
This is justified given the need to ensure community ownership and commitment to future operations and
maintenance. In exceptional cases, for contracts above US$15,000 where community participation may
not be sufficient, communities may choose to use small works procurement procedures. In these cases, the
procedures specified under "Small Works" above will apply and the PMU will help the communities to
prepare the specifications and procure the works from qualified domestic contractors. The PMU will hire
technical auditors on a periodic basis to review lessons of experience with these procedures.
II. Procurement of Goods (US$1.6 million)
Goods to be procured under the Project will include vehicles, field equipment, computers, farm inputs,
veterinary medicines, vaccines, vaccination equipment, veterinary packs, small survey boats and engines,
office supplies, furniture and equipment, and other minor equipment.
(a) International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for goods costing less than the equivalent
of US$100,000 per contract, and up to an aggregate amount estimated not to exceed US$0.7 million. These
contracts will be awarded after solicitation and evaluation of written price quotations from at least three
suppliers in two different countries, in accordance with procedure acceptable to the Bank.
(b) National Shopping (NS). The local market has started to develop in the country, and more goods are
becoming available. Goods costing less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
cost estimated at US$0.2 million and not to exceed US$0.3 million, may be purchased on the basis of
national shopping by comparing price quotations obtained from at least three domestic suppliers, in
accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
(c) Direct Contracting (DC). Veterinary medicines of a proprietary nature and vaccines, each obtainable
only from a single sources in a timely and dependable manner, and with acceptable quality controls may,
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured following direct contracting procedures acceptable to the
Bank, up to a maximum aggregate amount of US$0.3 million.
(d) Procurement from  United Nations Agencies (UAT.   Procurement of vehicles, estimated at a
maximum aggregate of US$0.4 million may be carried out from the United Nations Inter-Agency
Procurement Services Office (IAPSO), pursuant to their own procedures and in accordance with paragraph
3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. This may be the most economical and efficient way for procuring these
vehicles.
For some procurement packages, both the 'estimated' aggregates (as assessed at appraisal) as well as the 'maximum' aggregates (as reflected in
the Grant Agreement) are indicated in the text. The maximum aggregates exceed the estimated figures to allow for flexibility during project
implementation.
- 84 -



III. Community Grants (US$0.7 million)
Community grants will support a broad spectrum of activities to be undertaken with the direct participation
and in-kind contribution of the beneficiary comnmunities. The main purchases to be made are likely to be
construction materials for very small works, such as plant nurseries, woodlots, seed storage, fences, water
retention facilities, small equipment, materials and supplies, plants and seeds, fish fries, and payment for
specialized labor and local technical support. Grouping these purchases will not be feasible because they
involve different operators and scattered beneficiaries in very remote areas. Procurement of works, goods
and services for individual contracts under this component are expected to be very small, given that the
total village allocation is only between US$1,000 and US$20,000. Most contracts are likely to be less than
the equivalent of US$ 10,000 each.
Community participation (CP) in procurement is justified in the interest of project sustainability and to
achieve the social objectives of the Project. It is desirable to call for the participation of local communities
and/or non-governmental organizations (NGOs), to increase the utilization of local know-how and
materials, and employ labor intensive and other appropriate local technologies. IDA would not be involved
in the approval process for every contract and disbursement at the village level. Procurement will be
undertaken according to procedures to be defined in the Operations Manual and consistent with those of the
Community Empowerment (CEP) Project. A sumrnary is provided below:
Goods:
*     Direct Contracting: for goods costing less than US$2,500, up to an aggregate of US$5,000 for
individual grants, direct contract could be used when justified due to lack of altemative local
suppliers.
e     National Shopping: for goods and services available locally valued at between US$2,500 and
USS10,000, national shopping procedures would be followed, after solicitation and evaluation of at
least three written price quotations. Communities could request procurement assistance from the
project facilitation team.
-     International Shopping: in exceptional circumnstances, where the goods requested are not available
nationally, the community could request assistance from the PMU to procure goods and services on
their behalf through international shopping.
Works:
*      Community Participation Procedures: community contributions of voluntary labor and materials
will be one of the criteria for selection of the grants (see Annex 2). However, communities may
choose to pay for specialized local labor and materials through the grants. Transfer of funds to
individuals in payment for labor to build a public good would be acceptable under the rules for
village grants, provided that is so specified in the approved proposal and that it does not exceed
prevailing rural labor market rates.
*     Small works: community grants are not expected to involve major structures. In exceptional
cases where community participation in construction may not be feasible, conmmunities may use
small works procurement procedures for works estimated to cost less than US$20,000 each. In
these cases, the procedures specified under "Small Works" above would apply, and the PMU
would help the communities prepare the specifications and procure the works from qualified local
contractors (including NGOs).
- 85 -



Services:
If, on an exceptional basis, services are required by the communities, providers of such services
could be hired directly based on their qualifications. The aggregate amount for such services shall
not exceed 10 percent of the value of the applicable commnunity grant.
IV. Consultant Services (US$2.9 million)
Consultants services will include a feasibility study for major-damaged irrigation schemes, the provision of
information to farmers, community facilitation by NGOs, contracts for vaccination campaigns, training by
specialized institutes, and the provision of technical assistance in the areas of comnmunity water use,
monitoring and evaluation, preparation of technical proposals, construction supervision, information and
communication, animal health services, applied research, agricultural services, policy and project
management. The Bank's Standard Requests for Proposals (dated July 1997, revised April 1998 and July
1999) will be used for the selection of consultants. Any contract above US$200,000 shall be advertised in
the Development Business requesting an Expression of Interest prior to developing a shortlist.
(a)    Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB). The selection of fmn to conduct the feasibility study and
detailed engineering of three major-damaged irrigation schemes will be undertaken through Selection under
a Fixed Budget. As a similar assignment has been carried under ARP I, the DAA is in a good position to
define the service requirements with a fixed budget estimated at US$0.2 million.
(b)    Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ).  Contracts with specialized training
organizations and NGOs for project management, irrigation management, participatory rural appraisal, and
monitoring and evaluation, valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract for an aggregated total
estimated at US$0.3 million may be procured through Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications.
(c)    Single Source Selection (SSS). Because of the need to start implementing activities immediately
after Project effectiveness to ensure Project completion within the limited time fraame of two years, single
source selection will be used for assistance contract for informnation programming (US$0.15 million), given
the need for a rapid mobilization of these services prior to the rainy season to provide farmers with timely
technical, climate and vaccination information. Single source selection would also be used for NGO
facilitation contracts for Component I in districts in cases where only one NGOs is qualified for the
assignment (at an estimated maximum of US$0.05 million), and for the supervision of irrigation works
(US$0.18 million), where continuation of this assignment from ARP I is a clear advantage given the firms'
familiarity with the schemes, and the need to complete the works prior to the rainy season. The estimated
aggregate cost of the contracts should not exceed US$0.4 million.
(d)   Least Cost Selection (LCS). LCS procedures will be used for selection of a qualified auditing firn
to carry out the external audit of the Project. The value of the contracts awarded through LCS is estimated
at US$0.04 million.
(e) Individual Consultants. The DAA will need individual advisors and consultants to carry out some of
the more complex and specialized tasks of the Project, such as project management finctions, policy and
strategy studies, animal health services and vaccination, training, commnunication, conmmunity facilitation,
water use, applied research support, and other tasks. These will be done by individual consultants whose
experience and qualifications are the paramount requirements to the Project. The selection of individual
consultants would be based on their qualifications for the assignment in accordance with Section V of the
Guidelines. The aggregate cost of the contracts should not exceed US$2.0 million.
- 86 -



V. Training, Workshops and Study Tours (U$0.5 million)
Expenses for staff training will be disbursed with prior approval of the Bank based on annual agreed
training plans. Training costs will cover activities in the areas of farmers' training and cross visits,
community water use, communication/information, animal health, agriculture service centers, procurement
and other priority technical training. The aggregate cost of training activities and workshops is estimated at
about US$0.5 million. This excludes US$0.3 million in training which would be contracted under CQ
procedures, above.
VI. Incremental Operating Costs (US$0.3 million)
Incremental operating costs will include transportation and per diem for project staff and consultants,
comrnunications and internet links, monitoring and evaluation, audit costs, bank charges, office
consumables, and supplies. These will be procured according to normal commercial procedures acceptable
to the Bank. The estimated cost of incremental operating costs is US$0.3 million, excluding audit costs
specified under LCS procedures above (audit costs are considered to be an incremental operating cost for
the purposes of Grant disbursement).
D.     Prior Review Thresholds
Table B of Annex 6 indicates the thresholds for prior review. IDA will conduct prior review of
procurement documents and actions for:
(i)    all works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, and the first two
works contracts in each Fiscal Year under PSW procedures;
(ii)   all goods contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the first two goods
contracts procured for both IS and NS each Fiscal Year and all goods contracts procured through
DC.
(iii)   all consulting contracts costing more than or equal to US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals;
(iv)   all single source selection contracts for firms; and
(v)    all individual consultant contracts for PMU advisory positions and policy and strategy studies.
The total amount of contracts subject to prior review will be US$4.1 million, or 51 % of the value of the
Grant.
E.    Ex-Post Review
Ex-post reviews in the ratio of one out of five contracts will be conducted regularly by IDA to identify
areas of improvements. The Association will conduct supervision missions quarterly in the first year after
Effectiveness, and half-yearly thereafter for the life of the Project.
- 87 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                                 (including
ICB      NCB    Other         N.B.F.       Contingencies)
1. Works:                                                                                       2.0 (2.0)
(a) Rapid Infrastructure Component    (1.1)                        (0.7)
(b) Others                                                         (0.2)
2. Goods                                                             (1.6)        0.3            1.9 (1.6)
3. Community Grants                                                  (0.7)                      0.7 (0.7)
4. Consultants Services and Studies                                  (2.9)        0.1           3.0 (2.9) a
5. Workshops, Training and Study                                     (0.5)                      0.5 (0.5)
Tours
6. Incremental Operating Costs                                       (0.3)        0.6           0.9 (0.3)
Total                         (1.1)              (6.9)        0.9            8.9 (8.0)
- Includes US$0.3 million in training contracts under CQ procedures and US$0.04 million in audit contracts (considered an incremental
operating cost for the purposes of Grant disbursement).
Notes:   LIB: Limited Intemational Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
Other: Includes consulting services, international and national shopping, community participation, procurement of small works, and
direct contracting.
NBF: Non-Bank financed (CFET contribution).
Figures in parenthesis indicate those funded by the Grant.
- 88 -



Annex 6, Table A.1: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                 (including
Expenditure Category    SFB           CQ        LCS          SSS        N.B.F.   Contingencies)
A. Firms                     (0.2)    (0.3)     0.04)         (0.4)                    0.9 (0.9)
B. Individuals                        (2.0)                               0.1          2.1 (2.0)
Total           (0.2)    (2.3)      (0.04)       (0.4)        0.1         3.0 (2.9)
Note:   SFB = Selection Under Fixed Budget
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification
LCS = Least Cost Selection
SSS = Single Source Selection
NBF = Non-Bank financed (CFET contribution)
Figures in parenthesis indicate those funded by the Grant.
- 89 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure   Contract Value        Procurement              Contracts Subject     Amount Subject
Category      (Threshold)            Method                 To Prior Review       to Prior Review
(US$ million)
1. Works      >US$100,000                ICB                        All                  1.10
<US$100,000               PSW              First Two contracts each year   0.11
2. Goods      >US$100,000                 UN                        All                  0.40
>US$50,000                  IS             First Two contracts each year   0.25
<US$50,000                 NS              First Two contracts each year   0.04
DC                        All                  0.28
3. Services
a. Firms      >US$100,000             All methods                   All                  0.23
SSS                       All                   0.34
b. Individual   >US$50,000                CQ                        All                  0.52
All PMU advisors           CQ                         All                  0.81
and policy TA
Total Value of contracts subject to prior review: US$4.08 million (51 % of the Grant)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 4 months (includes special procurement supervision for
post-review/audits)
- 90 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in US$       Financing Percentage
million
(1) Civil Works:                                                              100%
(a) Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation              1.55
Component                                        0.16
(b) Others
(2) Goods (including local transportation to site)      1.40             100o/0/100%/90%a
(3) Village Grants                                      0.60                  100%
(4) Incremental Operating Costs                         0.30                  100%
(5) Training, Workshops, Fellowships, and Study         0.65                  100%
Tours
(6) Consultant Services and Studies                     2.26                  100%
(7) Unallocated                                         1.08
Total                                                   8.0
a _ 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory costs), and 90 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally.
Annex 6, Table Cl: Allocation of Grant Proceeds by Component (US$ million)
Expenditure Category              Pilot          Rapid        Services to    Program      Total
Participatory   Infrastructure    Farmers   Management   Grant
Development   Rehabilitation
and NRM
(I) Civil Works:                                         1.55          0.16           --         1.71
(a) Rapid Infrastructure Component
(b) Others
(2) Goods (including transportation)      --              --            1.04         0.36        1.40
(3) Village Grants                       0.60             --             -            --         0.60
(4) Incremental Operating Costs          0.03            0.03          0.02          0.22        0.30
(5) Training, Workshops, Fellowships,    0.09            0.11          0.21          0.24        0.65
and Study Tours
(6) Consulting Services and Studies      0.05            0.56          0.87          0.78        2.26
(7) Unallocated                          0.13            0.34          0.34          0.27        1.08
Total                                    0.90            2.59          2.64          1.87         8.0
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
-91 -



A.    Introduction
The proposed Project is expected to disburse over a period of 27 months from the date of effectiveness
(September 30, 2001) to closure (December 30, 2003). Disbursements may continue for an additional four
months past December 31, 2003 for expenditures covering goods, services or works delivered to the Project
before the closing date of the Grant.
B.    Special Account
UNTAET will establish a Special Account denominated in US dollars under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA to facilitate project implementation. An initial deposit of US$I million will be made to
facilitate project implementation. Replenishment applications should be submitted through the PMU on a
monthly basis, or when the balance of the Special Account reaches 20 percent of the initial deposit,
whichever comes first. The Special Account will be audited annually by independent auditors under terms
of reference acceptable to IDA.
C.    Use of Statements of Expenditures
Statement of expenditures (SOEs) will be used for:
Contracts for works costing less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract;
*     Contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract;
Community grants;
Incremental operating costs, such as reasonable expenditures incurred for bank charges, charges
related to the operation of a financial management system for the Project, Project auditing costs,
local travel costs and per diem of Project staff and consultants, communications, consumables and
supplies for the PMU and District Agriculture Offices, internet links, vehicle operation and
maintenance, and monitoring and evaluation (but excluding staff salaries);
*     Training, workshops, fellowships, and study tours;
*     Contracts with consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract;
*     Contracts with individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract;
All other disbursements will be fully documented under standard prior review procedures. Documentation
supporting SOE disbursements will be retained by the PMU for a minimum of one year after receipt by
IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. IDA will conduct an SOE
review biannually.
Retroactive financing of a total of US$500,000 will be authorized for the following expenditures:
Training, Workshops, and Study Tours           USS110,000
Consultant Services and Studies                US$ 90,000
Goods (including local transportation to site)  US$300,000
-92 -



Financial Management
A.    Status and Overall Assessment
A Financial Management Specialist (FMS) from the World Bank carried out an assessment of the status of
the Financial Management System and of DAA's staff capacity in May 2001. The results and proposed
action plan to improve the system and increase the capacity of the staff are discussed below.
The Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project (ARP II) is a follow-up Project of the on-going Agriculture
Rehabilitation Project (ARP I). The Finance Unit, which was established as part of the Project
Management Unit (PMU) under ARP I will continue to have overall responsibility for managing project
funds, including proper authorization of project expenditures, accounting, and retention of documentation,
ensuring that fimds flow to project implementation units and agencies in a timely and systematic fashion,
and generally ensuring that project funds are utilized for the purposes intended. Under the Project, it is
expected that the Finance Unit will be more integrated with the Division of Agriculture Affairs (DAA) of
the East Timor Transitional Administration (ETTA) and eventually, the new Government of East Timor.
Thus, the Finance Manager will report directly to the PMU Director who is also the DAA Director.
The Finance Unit is currently adequately staffed. The Finance Manager has been training an East Timorese
counterpart staff who is expected to take over his functions by about December 2001. It is, however,
highly desirable that the present (expatriate) Finance Manager continue to provide advisory service at least
for six months after the appointment of a counterpart staff as Finance Manager.
B.    Financial Management System
Except for the lack of a proper registry of fixed assets, the financial management system of ARP I has been
generally satisfactory. Under the overall direction of the Project's Finance Manager, adequate accounting
system and intemal control procedures have been established. These will be continued and strengthened, as
necessary, under ARP II. The Project will use the accounting software MYOB (Mind Your Own Business),
for core accounting functions, supplemented by excel tables, to generate the required periodic financial
reports. This has worked satisfactorily under ARP I. However, ETTA is currently negotiating the
acquisition of a new software package (FreeBalance) for integrated Government accounting which, as is
intended, will be adopted by all TFET/IDA-financed projects in East Timor.
Although it is not formnally required in the Grant Agreement for ARP I, the Project has comrnenced
preparing the two financial tables of the quarterly Project Monitoring Tables - PMRs (Sources and Uses of
Funds and Uses of Funds by Project Activity). This will be continued under ARP II. The format and
contents of PMRs (as well as "ex-LACI" implementation procedures) are currently under review within
IDA. Under ARP II, the Project will supplement the two financial reports with any additional reports that
may be required by IDA as part of the Project's quarterly financial reporting. Formats for standard
reporting reflecting acceptable ARP I reporting procedures are included in the minutes of negotiations.
C. Financial Management Action Plan
The following actions are deemed necessary to ensure an adequate fmancial management system to support
the implementation of ARP II:
- 93 -



*     Extension of the Finance Manager's contract The present contract of the Finance Manager of
ARP I is due to expire at the end of December 2001. During the remaining period of assignment,
the Finance Manager will (i) be responsible for preparation of the financial statements for the
first audit of ARP I, respond to audit questions, ensure that audit is completed in an orderly
fashion, and that the audit report is received by IDA latest by December 31, 2001; (ii) complete the
training of East Timorese counterpart staff on financial functions and, in particular, that of his
successor, and to ensure that the financial management of ARP II continues satisfactorily under the
newly trained staff; and (iii) prepare a manual of the Project's accounting system and intemal
control procedures (see below).
*     Establishment of Fixed Asset Registry. The ARP I has not yet established a Fixed Asset Registry
for assets financed by ARP I funds. This matter has been discussed with the Finance Manager,
who has initiated the process for its establishment and expects to have the registry completed by
the time of first audit of ARP I. The existence of all assets, as well as their use for the purposes of
the Project, will have to be verified and any discrepancies should be brought to the attention of the
auditors.
     Preparation of an fMS Manual. Mainly because of his work-load, the Finance Manager has not
yet been able to prepare a manual of accounting and internal control procedures for ARP I. He has
recently initiated this task and expects to complete the manual by September 2001. The manual
will be particularly important for the training of staff and a smooth transfer of financial
management functions to East Timorese staff. It has been emphasized that the manual should
include simple, clear flow charts indicating flow of funds (and units or agencies responsible) for
each of the main components of ARP II. Finalization of an FMS Manual and a Fixed Asset
Registry will be part of the Accounting and Procurement Manual which is a condition for
effectiveness of ARP II.
D. Fund Flow
Component 1: Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
The disbursement of community grants to target communities was discussed in detail during the
pre-appraisal mnission of May-June 2001. One option discussed was to use local traditional systems. The '
ulun boot tradisional' (traditional leaders) have the power and authority to mobilize the communities, but
lack the formal legal status and could, therefore, not be the legal recipients of the community grants. ARP
II will, therefore, use the Village Councils (Conselho dos Sucos) which have legally established under the
CEP Project and are operational in most villages in East Timor as the recipients of the funds at the
community level.  The financial and accounting process will follow closely the CEP model of fund
disbursement to villages which has been successfully operating for more than a year.
Payments under village grants will be in three installments in accordance with the approved proposal: an
advance of up to 40 percent, an intennediary payment upon verification of progress of activities, and a final
payment upon verification of successful completion by the district facilitation team (with back-up expected
from DAA technical staff). This flexibility is needed given since the type of proposals in not known up
front.
- 94 -



The community grant agreements will be signed by the PMU Director and a designated representative of
the Conselho do Suco. Payments will be disbursed from the Special Account in Dili to the District Finance
Officer, who will sign the payment request against the approved proposal. He/she will be responsible for
the funds until such a time as he/she will return all the documentation certifying that the funds have been
delivered to the community. The District Finance Officer will then take the funds to the communities and
hand it to the Village Council Treasurer (Tesoureiro do Conselho do Suco). The District Finance Officer,
the Village Council Treasurer, and the Village Council Chief (Chefe do Conselho do Suco) will sign the
receipt of the funds, in the presence of a well respected traditional leader who would sign as a witness.
The funds will then be handed by the Village Council Chief to the group of final beneficiaries, who will
elect a leader to sign on their behalf. The utilization of funds and progress of activities will be publicly
displayed in a whiteboard to promote accountability and transparency. For intemal control purposes, there
will be periodic monitoring from the Head Office Accounts Department to the districts to ensure that the
funds were delivered and received by the appropriate beneficiaries. The fund flow proposed for the
component is outlined below:
Annex 6, Figure 1: Proposed Fund Flow for Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources
Management Component
Special account
(Diii)
District    Agriculture
Financial Officers
(DAFO)
,..................................................................
Sign by:
DAFO, 'Conselho do Suco'
'Conselho do                       Tresurer, 'Chefe do Conselho do
Suco' Treasurer    < -- ----          Suco', and well respected
traditional leader
Sign by:
Beneficiaris in .'Chefe Conselho do Suco', Treasurer
Beneficiaries in    <____ ___ _of 'Conselho do  Suco', and one
selected villages            _ --------
representative of the beneficiaries
Component 2: Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation
The flow of funds for community based contracts will use the established procedures developed under ARP
I.   Memorandum  of Agreement (MOAs) will be signed between the Project and a well-respected
representative of the community undertaking the works, selected by the beneficiaries themselves (in some
cases, this could include a member of the Church or NGOs, depending on beneficiary communities'
- 95 -



preference). The MOAs will be signed in the presence of community witnesses. The MOA will stipulate a
mobilization advance of not more than 20 percent of the contract value. A 50 percent intermediary
payment will be done based on certification of progress billings by DAA irrigation construction
supervisions or, if sufficient capacity exists, the district irrigation officer, reviewed by the Chief of the
Irrigation Section and approved by the PMU Director. The final and full payment will only be done upon
full completion of the works, certified, reviewed and approved in the same manner as the intermediary
payment. As per the community grants, the MOA amounts and weekly progress reports will be displayed
publicly on a sign post or whiteboard at the comrnmunity level. In addition, the PMU will undertake periodic
technical audits of the community works.
Upon the final payment of the community contract, the DAA and the community shall sign a Memorandum
of Turn-Over which states that the DAA officially turns over, and the community correspondingly accepts,
the responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated irrigation facilities or access roads.
For larger irrigation works, payment will be against the terms stipulated in the contract. Following a
standard mobilization payment, periodic payments will be based on certification of progress billings signed
by Project Supervisors, i.e. the consulting firm engaged to supervise the works, and DAA Irrigation staff.
The certification will be reviewed the Chief of the Irrigation Unit, and approved by the DAA Director.
Such progress billing shall include, among others, a detailed physical accomplishment report. The final
payment shall be done upon 100 percent completion of the works as certified, reviewed and approved in the
same manner as the progress billings. All payments shall be subjected to 5 percent retention. Half of the
total amount retained shall be paid to the Contractor upon full completion of the works and half when the
Defects Liability Period, which will be defined in each contract, has passed and all defects that have been
notified to the Contractor have been corrected. All other details specifying payment shall be stipulated in
each specific contract.
Component 3: Services to Farmers
This component will fund information to farmers, sustainable animal health services, and Pilot Agriculture
Service Centers (PASCs).
Information to Farmers. The flow of funds for the information campaigns and CGIAR Secretariat
technical assistance will be on a contract basis stipulated by the terms and conditions of payments.
Sustainable Animal Health Services.  Payment to private vaccinators for the implementation of
vaccination campaigns will follow the system instituted during ARP I. Each District Livestock Officer will
complete a standard budget estimate, detailing requirements for fuel, transport, materials, and contracting
of private vaccinators (usually 8-12 per district). A 20 percent advance for vaccination expenses is paid to
a Campaign Coordinator (usually the District Livestock Officer) in the form of an 'Imprest' for which he
has to retire all documents. As the work progresses and accounts are retired, further payments are made.
Periodic payments to vaccinators are made based on the certification by the Coordinator and confirmed by
the Head of the Livestock Unit as to the quantity and quality of the work done. During ARP I, vaccinators
were paid on a per shot, as well as on a per diem basis. It is expected that during ARP II, the per diem
paymnent will be progressively phased out.
Pilot Agriculture Service Centers (PASCs). Payments will be made from the Project's Special Account
into the account of the PASC company, and will be received by two PASC entity officials (the Company
Accountant and the PASC Manager). Payments for bulk purchase of inputs could be made by the PMU
- 96 -



against a signed contract between the PASCs and suppliers. Payments for incremental operational
expenses will be made monthly against an approved quarterly operational plan (evaluated as satisfactory by
the Finance Officer of ARP II and Head of Crop Production Unit of DAA). The PASC Manager will need
to submit copies of records of accounts and vouchers to the Head Office Finance Department for
verification prior to the next disbursement of funds.  Upon a satisfactory assessment of the PASCs'
financial management capacity by IDA, authorization could be given for the establishment of a 90-day
account, where documentation and accounts would be retired quarterly and presented to the Finance Officer
of ARP for reconciliation with the Special Account.  IDA will clear the model subsidiary agreement
between the PMU and the PASCs.
Component 4: Program Management
Payment for expert services under the Program Management component will be in accordance with the
terms of their contract, based on the presentation of invoices for the value of the work done. The invoices
should be authorized for payment by the PMU Director prior to payment. Payment will be subject to
satisfactory periodic evaluation by the PMU Director of the services rendered.
E. Auditing
The first audit of ARP I (as of June 30, 2001) is expected to be undertaken by September 2001. ETTA is
currently recruiting auditors for this purpose. The Finance Manager of the PMU is aware of the
preparation of financial statements and the general preparation required for this audit which should take
place as scheduled.
ETTA will be responsible for carrying out internal auditing of all Project activities. The PMU will prepare
annual financial statements for the Project and have them audited by an independent external auditor, under
terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to IDA. The auditor will be required to provide an opinion
on the financial statements, the operations of the Special Account and the withdrawals from the Grant
based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The first audit under the Project will be due by December
31, 2002.
- 97 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      4                            4.5
First Bank mission (identification)             05/01/2001                   05/07/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     08/01/2001                   07/23/2001
Negotiations                                    08/15/2001                   08/20/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2001                    10/31/2001
Prepared by:
Division of Agriculture Affairs, United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Sofia Bettencourt                 Sr. Natural Resource Economist, Task Team Leader
Dely P. Gapasin                   Sr. Agriculturist
Shahridan Faiez                   Environment Specialist/COSTAB
Jean Foerster (Consultant)        Water Resources Economist
Christopher Konecki (Consultant)  Irrigation and Water Resources Mng. Specialist
Stephen Burgess (Consultant)      Social Assessment Specialist
Edio da Costa                     Operations Officer/Institutional Specialist
Moses Thompson (Consultant)       Project Management Design Facilitator
Brian Brandenburg                 Sr. Livestock Specialist
Dominic Aumentado, Nurul Alam     Procurement Specialists
Adbul Haji                        Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Karin Nordlander, Hoi-Chan Nguyen   Project Lawyers
Hung Kim Phung                    Sr. Disbursement Specialist
Ronald Isaacson                   Project Advisor/Deputy Resident Representative
Cecilia Belita, Cynthia Dharmajaya,    Program/Team Assistants
Diana Isaac
Shawki Barghouti, Geert Deimer, Itaru  Intemal Peer Reviewers (World Bank)
Minamni , Cornelis De Haan
Greg Ellis, Dennis Hoffman        Extemal Peer Reviewers
Glenn Morgan                      Environmental Analysis Reviewer
Bruce Harris                      Social Assessment Reviewer
Loty Salazar                      Communication Expert
- 98 -



Counterparts who worked on the Project
Name                                                   Specialty/Unit/Organization
A. East Timorese
Mari Alkatiri                                  Cabinet Member for Economic Affairs
Estanislau da Silva                            Advisor
Candido da Conceiqa6                           Head of UJNTAET Negotiations Team
Cesar da Cruz                                  PMU Counterpart Director
Florindo Barreto                               Inigation Unit Head, DAA
Francisco Benevides                            Crop Production Unit Head, DAA
Narciso de Carvalho                            Fisheries Unit Head, DAA
Domingos Gusmao                                Livestock Unit Head, DAA
Mario Nunes                                    Forestry Unit Head, DAA
Esmeralda da Cruz                              Social Facilitator, DAA
Boaventura de Freitas                          Procurement Specialist, PMU, DAA
Ervina Pinto                                   Financial Specialist, PMU, DAA
Egas da Silva                                  Training Coordinator, DA A
District Agriculture Officers
National NGO staff
Name                                                    Specialty/Unit/Organization
B. Foreign Advisors                           ______
Serge Verniau                                  DAA Director
Peter Achuonjei                                Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Stephen Dunn                                   Poultry Specialist
Lynn Engstrand                                 Agribusiness Enterprise Specialist
David Hill                                     Procurement Specialist
Yusupha Jobe                                   Financial Management Specialist
Chris Landon-Lane                              Agriculture Specialist (FAO)
Marina Miranda Guedes                          Agriculture Advisor to the Cabinet Member for
Economic Affairs
Richard Mounsey                                Fisheries Specialist
Chana Opaskomkul                               Crop Production Specialist
Brian Palmer                                   Agricultural Research Advisor
Genaro San Valentin                            Crop Production Specialist
Ismael Tabije                                  Irrigation Engineer
Tom Markushewski                               UNTAET Lawyer
Dom Taylo-Hunt                                 Forest Conservation Specialist
Auoli Wang                                     Livestock Specialist
Amorafe Zaulda                                 Forestry Specialist
Zhijun Chen                                    Irrigation Advisor
International NGO staff
99-



E. Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned                 Actual
(At Activity Initiation Stage)
From Preparation to Appraisal
Bank Budget                                    $229,400                $199,129
Others (CTF, FAO/CP, Post Conflict Fund)       $ 61,545                $59,267
From Appraisal to RVP Approval
Bank Budget                                    $96,000                 $90,997
Others (CTF, FAO/CP, Post Conflict Fund)       $52,580                 $20,450
Total
- 100 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan Documents by the Government
* Development of the Crops Sector of Agriculture in East Timor, May 2001
*  Fish for the Future: A Strategic Plan for the Fisheries of East Tinor, March 2001
* National Forestry Program and Policy Statement, December 2000
* Strategy for Irrigation and Water Management in East Timor, June 2000
* PASC Consultants Report for Maliana PASC, August 2001
* Project Implementation Plan, September 2001
* Draft Operational Manual for Component I
* Project Cost Tables in COSTAB, August 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Foerster, Jean "Economic Sensivity Analysis of Proposed Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes in
East Timor", June 2001.
*  Burgess, Steve "Preliminary Social Assessment Study", June 2001.
* Faiez, Shahridan "Environmental Assessment Report', July 2001.
*  Aumentado, Dominic "Procurement Capacity Assessment Report", June 2001.
* Da Costa, Edio, Background Information on Component 1, June 2001.
* Konecki, Chris, Appraisal of Irrigation Investment Feasibility, March 2001.
* Haji, Abdul "Financial Management - Assessment and Action Plan", June 2001.
*  Thompson, Moses "ARP II Pre-Appraisal Workshop, May 17-19, 2001", May 2001.
C. Other
* Capacity Development for Governance and Public Sector Development, Strategic Management
Framework, March 2001.
* Joint Agriculture Donors' Mission, "Agriculture in East Timor: A Strategy for Rehabilitation and
Development", May 2000.
* Joint Agriculture Donors' Mission, "Joint Agriculture Donor's Mission to East Timor, March 26 to
April 7, 2001", Final Mission Report, June 2001.
*  SNC Lavalin "Feasibility and Engineering Study in Respect of Rehabilitation of Identified Irrigation
Schemes in East Timor", Report Prepared for DAA, March 2001.
*  World Bank "East Timor Agriculture Rehabilitation Project, TFET TF023824, Mid-Term Review
Mission, May 7-24, 2001, Mission Aide Memoire", June 2001.
* Letter from Regional Vice President authorizing an exception to the Notification Requirement under the
Projects on International Waterways Policy (OP 7.50), July 2001.
 Negotiated Grant Agreement, August 22, 2001
* Minutes of Negotiations, August 23, 2001
* Project Information Document, September 2001
*  Environmental Data Sheet and Environmental Analysis Report, September 2001.
Including electronic files
- 101 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA        SF                Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
P072461       2001 TP-Econonac Institutons for Capacity BI            0.00      0.00       0.50                 0.00       0.40      0.00       0.00
P072356       2001 TP-SECOND COMMUNlrY EMPOWERMENT                    0.00      0.00       8.50                 0.00       7.32      1.93       0.00
P070533       2000 PROJECT                                           0o00       0.00       6.80                 0.00       2.47      3.87       0.00
P070294       2000 AGRICULTJRE RE1,BILITATION PROJECT                 0.00      0.00      12.70                 0.00       9.41      6.63       0.00
P070283       2000 TP-Healh Sector Rehab & D v. Prolajc               0.00      0.00       4.85                 0.00       1.00      4.25       0.00
P070268       2000 TP. Smnal Entsan  Prmot Phae I                     0.00      0.00      13.90                 0.00       3.86      0.00       0.00
P069762       2000 TP.Emargsncy Sdcod Rediness Proect                 00.0      0.00      21.00                 0.00       0.52      4.50       0.00
TP-COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT
Total:       0.00        000      68.25                 0.00      24.97      21.18       0.00
EAST TIMOR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval               Cornpany                                Loan    Equity        Quasi    Partic        Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic
Total Portfolio:                 0.00        0.00              0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Approvals Pending Comm.unitment
FY Approval              Cotnpany                                     Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                    0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
-102 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Not yet available for East Timor
- 103-



Additional
Annex 11
Summary of the Second Joint Agriculture Donors' Mission to East Timor
March 26-April 7, 2001
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
A Joint Agriculture Donors Mission  by AusAID, World Bank, JICA, UNDP/UNOPS, Portugal, USAID,
and FAO visited East Timor from March 26 to April 7, 2001. The mission met in Dili with Dr. Mari
Alkatiri, Cabinet Member for Economic Affairs, staff from the Division of Agriculture Affairs (DAA),
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the Central Fiscal Authority, and the Asian Development Bank.
On March 28-31 and April 2, 2001, the mission visited donor-funded projects in Dili, Manatutu, Baucau,
Aileu, Ermera, Bobonaro, Oecussi, and Lautem. A workshop with DAA staff, district agriculture officers,
and NGO representatives was held in Dili on April 3-6, 2001 to discuss lessons learned, sector priorities
and delivery mechanisms. While a concerted attempt was made to involve as many stakeholders as possible
in the discussions of the mission, it was recognized that other consultative processes have contributed to the
development of the Government's agricultural policies and strategies. The Mission's findings were,
therefore, presented as a contribution to this ongoing process.
T'he Mission had two major objectives:
*      To review lessons learned in the Agriculture Sector in the post-emergency period; and
-      To agree on future strategic planning and investment priorities
Given this purpose and the timeframe of the Mission, it was agreed that sector-specific analysis should not
be undertaken by the Mission, but should rather be addressed in the future planning of individual projects.
Similarly, while Tables 11.1 and 11.2 show the indicative funding for the sector, specific donor funding
commnitments are expected to be made only at the time of approval of specific projects.
A. Key Lessons Learned
Agriculture projects are still in their early stages of implementation. Feedback from selected conununities,
district agriculture staff and NGOs indicates that emergency food relief, seed multiplication and rapid
impact programs have been well received. Community-based activities such as the rehabilitation of small
irrigation schemes, access roads, and agroforestry also appear to have been successful. Cattle vaccination,
though facing some operational difficulties, seems to have prevented an epidemic during the rainy season.
The process of Timorization in the Division of Agriculture Affairs is proceeding well, with all 126 staff
appointed and capacity building efforts started.
RMission members included Greg Ellis (AusAID), Sofia Bettencount and Edio da Costa (World Bank), Masao Sasaki
(JICA), David Rendall (UNDPIUNOPS), Adriano Ferreira (Portugal), David Boyce (USAID), and Dennis Hoffiman and
Chris Landon-Lane (FAO).  Shared experts included Malcolm Bale, Moses Thompson, Luca Tacconi, Peter Wilson,
Sebastiana Santos Barros, and Bartolomeu dos Reis.
- 104-



The Coffee Assistance Programs funded by USAID and the Government of Portugal have helped organize
farmers and provided them with marketing, extension and applied research services. The long-terrn nature
of this assistance is a clear indicator of the need for development in the agriculture sector to be designed
and implemented with long-term horizons.
Nonetheless, the impact has been uneven. Rural markets are not working well. Fanners cite problems with
unavailability of inputs (fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, veterinary medicines), competition with imported
foods (primarily rice), lack of transport, equipment, high prices of fuel, lack of processing and high
post-harvest losses. Most importantly, there is a general lack of buyers and farmers are unable to obtain
cash. This uncertainty about market prospects has led many fanners to produce little more than what is
needed to meet their subsistence. Agricultural surplus remains low.
The loss of traditional safety nets, such as livestock and household assets, has also exacerbated the
vulnerability of the poorest households to crop failure and flash floods. There is a general perception that
the focus on irrigated areas, with the assumption that this would stimulate agriculture production, has
neglected upland farmers, among the poorest and most isolated. Firewood collection has accelerated due to
the high prices of kerosene, contributing to deforestation. Some of the early rehabilitation assistance, such
as provision of tractors and farm tools, has been supply driven, and has suffered from poor quality, lack of
spare parts, weak attention to establishment of owner-operators, and high operational costs. In general, the
transition from a highly subsidized agriculture sector under the Indonesian times, and the recent distortions
created by the inflated prices of rural labor and distribution of imported food during the emergency phase,
has not been easy for East Timorese farmers.
B. Major Guiding Principles for Future Agriculture Assistance
Future donor-funded agriculture assistance will have to consider the following major issues and guiding
principles:
*      Sustainability. All development aid should be based on the principles of ensuring the long-term
sustainability both in economic and environmental terms of the investments.
      Food Security. While selected agriculture commodities have the potential to make a significant
contribution to the East Timor economy (such as coffee), the sector is likely to continue to
primarily play a subsistence or semi-subsistence role in the near future. A higher priority should
be given to aid that is likely to benefit a wider range of rural communities, alleviate rural poverty,
and promote food security.
*      Markets. Market viability needs to be a critical consideration in aid programs focused on
marketable agriculture products (such as rice).
*      Strengthened Resilience. Future aid programs should seek to increase the resilience of fanning
communities and minimize their vulnerability to climatic and economic shocks, e.g.. through
diversification of their farming activities, improved farming practices, and the promotion of
naturally resistant cropping systems.
*      Strengthened Self-Reliance Systems. Donor assistance should seek to strengthen traditional
systems of management and self-reliance, to move away from a culture of disempowerment and
dependency on the State and the intemational community, to one where farm families are the key
- 105-



decision-makers and managers of their environment. This will become more important given the
future Government's limited human and financial resources.
Demand Focus. As East Timor moves out of the emergency phase towards long-term
development, there is a need to encourage more demand-based assistance, where rural households
are given the options, information, and assistance to make decisions about their investment
priorities. They should be the main clients of all agriculture assistance.
*     Balance Between Upland and Irrigated Areas. Upland farmers are among the poorest and most
prone to natural disasters. While much of the earlier aid programs focused on lowland agriculture,
there is a need to balance future assistance to also target upland areas.
*     Integrated Rural Development. Farming communities need to also address a range of issues that
affect their well being-such as road access, water supply and micro-finance. While a sectoral focus
was appropriate during the emergency phase, there is now a need to integrate agriculture assistance
more broadly in the context of rural development. Sub-sectoral assistance (such as irrigation,
forestry, and fisheries management), should be increasingly provided within the context of rural
development planning.
*     Partnerships. The future Government of East Timor will not have the resources to fully deliver the
services demanded by rural communities. DAA should focus on essential Government functions
(such as policy, regulations, monitoring, and information dissemination) and foster partnerships
with Aid Agencies, NGOs, the private sector, and community-based organizations to deliver
effective agriculture services.
*     Avoiding False Expectations. Many aid workers have made promises to rural communities that
did not materialize or took longer than envisaged, leading to disillusionment and uncertainty. It will
be essential for all forms of aid programs to invest in accurate information and communication to
farmers, and avoid creating false expectations.
     Innovation. East Timor is facing a unique set of constraints. It will need to find creative solutions
that fit the unique characteristics of its culture and its people.
C. Towards a Program of Donor Investment
Based on these principles, it is envisaged that future agricultural sector investment will span three
overlapping phases:
*     Rehabilitation (2001). The close of this phase would continue to focus on restoration of lost assets
and rapid rehabilitation of services, supplies, infrastructure and equipment needed for farmers to
jump-start agriculture production.
*     Transition (2001-2002). This phase would help establish the building blocks for the sustainable
development of the sector. It would put in place essential agriculture and natural resources policies,
regulations and government functions, and help smoothen the transition from a heavily subsidized
sector to one with limited government funding by targeting the poorest and most vulnerable.
- 106 -



*     Sustainable Development (2001-2005). This phase would start immediately in parallel with the
other two phases, with a long-term focus on sustainable agriculture, income generation, and natural
resources management. Donor assistance would be targeted at piloting participatory programs that
encourage community self-reliance, options for diversified cash income sources, and traditional
systems of natural resource management.  Rather than targeting specific sub-sectors (such as
forestry or fisheries) donor assistance would likely be provided in an integrated fashion in
accordance with communities' needs, and encouraging community contributions whenever
possible. A district focus for the provision of assistance is one way whereby donors could support
this approach.
While the mission addressed a funding horizon of 5 years (2001-2005), it was recognized that the
sustainable development phase will require a much longer timeframe to be achieved, and thus may
require long-term donor support.
D. Financing Gaps and Recurrent Costs
The total donor investment budget for FY2001/02 (including NGO-funded programs) is approximately
US$28.8 million, with recurrent costs estimated at US$1.7 million. Priority financing gaps exist in the
provision of marketing information, short-term programs aimed at the most vulnerable, input provision,
regulatory framework and management of forestry, fisheries and protected areas, quarantine, and
certification. While specific commitments cannot yet be guaranteed at this stage, investmnent in these largely
unfunded areas has been identified as a priority for future donor financing and is being considered in the
design of upcoming projects.
Over the long-term, further donor financing will be required to support the sustainable development
approach outlined above. This will include integrated development programs in several key districts,
support for monitoring, control and surveillance of natural resources, statistics and inventories, facilitating
partnerships between DAA, NGOs, community based organization, and the private sector, maintenance of
major irrigation schemes, disaster and risk management, and management of protected areas.
E. Capacity Building
Donor funded programs will have to pay priority attention to the capacity building needs of DAA, NGOs,
community-based organizations, and farmers. Human resources skills will need to be developed through
training-the-trainers, group dynamics and team building capacities in approaches such as fanner field
schools, village animal health workers, food security networks and community forestry. While the process
of Timorization continues, a limnited number of highly skilled international advisors is likely to be needed in
the medium-term.
At the institutional level, capacity building efforts should focus on strengthening institutional and internet
linkages between external information resources (such as the CGIAR centers network and NGO
infonmation centers), organizations working in the agriculture sector in East Timor, and farmers.
Facilitation skills, such as participatory rural appraisal, will become important as community-based
organizations and NGOs increasingly manage agricultural activities.
East Timor will need access to information for policy and strategic decisions, and ways to disseminate it
and monitor their impact. Administrative capacity building will also be needed among DAA and NGO staff
in skills such as reporting, time management and project management. In areas where there is limited
- 107-



experience (such as watershed management), pilot-scale projects and adaptive approaches should be
followed, with some initial mistakes expected as part of the capacity building process.
F. Conclusions
The Joint Agriculture Donors' Mission and workshop gave donors, DAA staff, and NGO partners an
opportunity to examine the lessons learned to date in the agricultural sector, and to make adjustments for
future investment directions. The bulk of the mission's conclusions and agreements were derived through
close discussion with stakeholders and collaboration with workshop participants. It will now be essential
for the stakeholders involved to apply these lessons to individual projects and activities, and for donors to
incorporate these directions in the preparation of specific projects. The next Joint Agriculture Donors'
Mission is tentatively scheduled for October 2001.
- 108 -



Table 11.1. Rural Development Program (2001-2005)'
Japan   TFET   Australia2    FAO   USAID   Portugal   UNDP   China  Others3    Gap
-Indicative Donor Involvement)--------
Rehabilitation (2001)
Fanr to market rural roads               xxx        X                 x                   X
Irrigation rehabilitation/water  xxx     xxx                         xx                   X
Vaccination/medication                   xxx
Seed/Storage                    x                  Xx        xx     xxx
Livestock                               xxx
Tractors/Machinery              xx                 X                 xx                          xxx
Hand tools                      xx       xx                  xx      xx         x                xx
Fishing Equipment                                  X                 xx                          xxx
Market Infonnation                       x         Xx                x
Post-Emergency Food Distrib.    x                           X                                           xxx
Distribution of Farm Equipment
Major Market Rehabilitation    xx       xxi                         xx                                  x
Transition (2001-2002)
V ulnerable people               -       x%5                           x--                                            ' |
Rapid community pilots                              X
Sustainable vaccination/medic            xx        Xx
Facilitatin in uts (fert., pest.)       xxx                                                               xxx
Organizing farmers              xx                                    x         x
Reducing post-harvest losses                        X        xx      xxx
Micro-finance                                                                                              xx
Agriculture Policy/Strategy     xxx                           x       x
Regulatory Framework:                    xx
ForestryfProtected Areas                         X                                                               777
Fisheries                      x                 Xx                                                       x
Quarantine/Certification                                           xx                                    xx
Capacity building               xx       xx        Xx         x                 x         xx
Sustainable Dewelopment (2001-2005)
Participatory Development and            xx       Xxx                xx                  xxx
Natural[Rcs. Managernent
Regslatory review
Monitoring, Control and Surveillance
(including fire managemenrt)
Applied research                                   X                           xxx                         x
Facilitating extension                             Xx                xx                                    xx
Monitoring/statistics/inventories                  X                            x.          :                            I
Land tenure                                        Xx                           x                          xx
Water Supply and Sanitation                       Xxx                           x                         xxx
t Sector coordination and partnerships                                 xx        x         x
Major imgation maintenance                                                                                          V
Disaster/risk management                                                                  x
Mapagetent of protected armat                                    -   x          x                          xx
Capacitmy building and administrative    x    x                       x         x         xx
Support
Indicative involvement including activities implemented by some organizations, but funded by another.
2 Australian assistance includes activities funded by AusAID and the Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR)
3 Others include donors not represented on this mission but known to be planning activities in East Timor. It includes New Zealand, Canada, Sweden. Norway, Macau,
the European Union, ADB, the World Food Program and other UN Agencies.
Funded under the second Small Enterprises Project
Funded under the second Community Empowerment Project
Key:   x = small amount, xx = medium amount, xxx = large amount
- 109-



Table 11. 2. Current Estimated Funding for Agriculture and Rural Development
in 2001 to 2005 (USS millions)
Japan   TFET   Australia'  FAO   USAID-   Portugal  UNDP   China    Others3
------Estimated Funding in USD Millions (subject to donor agencies' approval)--------
Rehabilitation (2001)
Farm to market rural roads                    0.7                       some
Irrigation rehabilitation/water      3.3      5.5                       some
Vaccination                                   0.7
Seed/Storage                                           Some      0.5    some
Livestock                            0.43     1.5
Tractors/Machinery                   0.13                                                             3.0
Hand tools                           0.18     0.3               some    some      some
Fishing Equipment                                                       some                          2.0
Market Information                            1.0
Post-Emergency Food Distribution
Distribution of Farm Equipment                                  0.09
Major Market Rehabilitation                                             some
Transition (2001-2002)
Vulnerable people                             I.0'                      some
Rapid community pilots                                 0.02
Sustainable vaccination                       0.6
Facilitating inputs (fertilizer,              1.5                                                                2.0
pesticide)
Organising farmers                                                      some       0.3
Reducing post-harvest losses                           0.09      0.4    some
Micro-finance                                                                                                    5.0
Agriculture Policy/Strategy          3.7      0.3               0.05    some
Regulatory Framework:                         0.4
Forestry/Protected Areas
Fisheries                                           0.4
Quarantine/Certification                            Some             some                                    some
Capacity building                    0.23     1.3               0.03    some      some
Sustainable Developmens (2001-2005
Participatory Development and Natural         1.0       9.0             some                 5.0
Res. Management
Regulatory review
Monitoring, Control and Surveillance
(including fire management)
Applied research                                       0.18                        0.92                          0.1
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation                       7.5                                                      3.0
Facilitating extension                                                  some                                     0.3
Monitoring/statistics/ inventories                     0.12
Land tenure                                             1.9                                                     0.3
Sector coordination and partnerships                                    some
Major irrigation maintenance
Disaster/risk management
Management of protected areas                                           some
Capacity building and adm. Support                                      some       0.19
' Australia donor assistance includes activities funded by AusAID and the Australian Centre for Intemational
Agricultural Research (ACIAR)
2 USAID is providing a revolving credit of $8 million that will be divided in a yet to be specified way between
the noted activities in the coffee and rural wholesale sectors.
3 Others include donors not represented on this mission but known to be planning activities in East Timor.
These include New Zealand, Canada, Sweden, Norway, Macau, the European Union, ADB, the World Food
Program and other UN Agencies. For information on NGO-supported activities please refer to Annex 1.
Funded by the Second Community Empowerment Project.
- 110-



Additional
Annex 12
Environmental Analysis
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
A. Introduction
The proposed Project represents the second installment of a $18.8 million grant committed by the Trust
Fund for East Timor (TFET) for the rehabilitation of agriculture in East Timor. Because of the need for
urgent intervention following the violence and destruction inflicted by the pro-Indonesia militia in 1999, the
first phase of the program (ARP I) was designed according to emergency procedures. An environmental
analysis was conducted for the Project and was given a category B rating.
The estimated total cost of the second Project is US$8.9 million, of which US$8.0 million will be
contributed by the IDA-managed TFET, and US$0.9 million (approximately US$450,000 a year, including
staff salaries) by CFET counterpart financing. The implementation period of ARP II is estimated to last 27
months. A parallel US$1.0 million TFET grant will be allocated to the rehabilitation of the Hera Fishing
Port, administered by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) under a separate (but parallel) project. The
environrmental assessment of this activity will be subject to the procedures and guidelines of the ADB, and
is not included in this analysis.
The present Project, known as the Second Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP II), will finance
activities to the sum of an estimated $8.9 million. Even though the project status is still in emergency mode,
and many of the project activities have been covered under the earlier assessment, it was decided that a new
environment assessment will be conducted both to ensure the environmental soundness of the Project and to
incorporate environmental lessons from the experience of the first phase of the Project.
Like ARP I, this project is concemed with improving and strengthening the agricultural base of the rural
population who form the majority of the East Timorese. The Project aims to achieve this goal by pursuing
the objective of increased sustainable production and increased food security. Towards this end, the Project
will finance the following four components:
1.    Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
2.    Rapid Rehabilitation of Infrastructure
3.    Services to Farmers
4.    Program Management
An environmental analysis of the Project component activities was conducted during the IDA mission to
East Timor on 7 May - 1 June 2001. The assessment involved field visits to Tutuala, Los Palos, Baucau,
Aileu, Dili, Bobonaro, Maubessi, Ermera, Covalima, and Oeccusi where the team interviewed farmers,
market traders and district agricultural officers of both genders. The assessment also benefited from
discussions with officials of the Forestry Unit, the Irrigation Unit, the Crops Production Unit and the GIS
Unit of the Division of Agriculture Affairs (DAA), and the Environmental Protection Unit.
- 111 -



B.    Institutional Context
Under the current emergency conditions of East Timor, and the transitional nature of the East Timor
Government, there are no satisfactory policy and regulatory framework for the management of
environmental issues. Even though UNTAET has passed a few regulations relating to environmental
management, they are difficult to enforce and need to be strengthened. This includes Regulation 19/2000
on protected places and species protection, and Regulation 17/2000 concerning the regulation of forestry
and forest practices. The 15 protected places designated in Regulation 19/2000, for instance, were selected
with only short consultation, and still lack a clear demarcation of boundaries.
The institutional framework is weakened further by the ambiguous and sometimes conflicting mandates of
the Government departments. The responsibility for natural resources management falls under the Division
of Agricultural Affairs, of which the Forestry Unit is responsible for issues of watershed management.
Water resources management issues, however, fall under the purview of Water and Sanitation Services in
the Department of Infrastructure. The Environmental Planning Unit under the National Planning and
Development Agency has a mandate over the environmental sector. Communication and collaboration
between these departments remains weak.
It is against this background that the proposed ARP II Project will be implemented. It is hoped that,
following the formation of a genuine East Timor government after the elections in August 2001, greater
attention will be given to strengthening the governance of the environment sector. The World Bank may
wish to support this process through the provision of greater analytical and advisory assistance.
Against this institutional framework, the Project Management Unit (PMU) shoulders a particularly heavy
responsibility to ensure that the overall environmental performance of the Project is satisfactory. The
sections below present the environmental issues related to the different components of the Project.
C. Environmental Analysis
Component 1: Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
This component will pilot an approach to increase the resilience of poor farming communities to external
shocks (economic, market, climate). The component will be tested initially in about 14 villages (sucos) in
Baucau, Covalima, Dili, Lautem, Liquica, Manufahi, and Oecussi with the potential for expansion to 30
villages. The component will seek to strengthen traditional self-reliance groups and render them less
dependent on external assistance. It will also help community groups be less vulnerable to tirnes of scarcity
and external factors by, inter alia, improving the management of their natural resource base and
diversifying their sources of income. The menu of activities - primarily related to natural resource
management - will be designed so as to benefit large sections of the community and involve the poorest and
most vulnerable (e.g. women). Activities under this menu are small in scale and may include community
nurseries, community woodlots and agroforestry, seed storage, water retention facilities, aquaculture, and
community living fences.
Because of the small village scale of these activities, the environmental impact in the short-term is not
expected to be significant. As a guide, the Environment Protection Unit has advised that the project should
ensure that the scale of individual activities do not exceed the arnount identified in the "List of Activities
Requiring Environmental Impact Assessment under Regulation 51/1993 of the Indonesian Environmental
- 112-



Management Act." In addition, a screening process will be conducted by the PMU to evaluate the
environmental and social soundness of each proposed activity and to ensure that conflicts over cultural
property or known outstanding land claims do not arise. This screening criteria (developed based on the
Community Empowerment Project and other similar projects in Southeast Asia) will be included in the
Operational Manual for the component and the Project Implementation Plan.
Given that the activities will be proposed by community groups themselves, it is highly unlikely that they
will involve land acquisition or involuntary resettlement. However, a standard involuntary resettlement and
land acquisition clause will be included in the Grant Agreement to ensure that, should this become an issue
with any of the proposed community activities, appropriate measures of compensation and rehabilitation
are provided to affected persons in accordance with East Timor's future Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework. Adoption of this framework is a condition for disbursement of village grants.
Since the component is designed to benefit poor and isolated upland communities, an Indigenous People
Plan will not be required. The social assessment conducted through implementation should help identify
potential vulnerable groups in upland areas (such as in Lautem) which may need special outreach (e.g. in
the form of information provided in local languages) to have an opportunity to benefit from Project
activities.
Component 2: Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Three major activities will be financed under this component: (a) light- to medium-damaged irrigation
schemes rehabilitation, (b) commnunity based irrigation schemes rehabilitation, and (c) farm-to-market
access roads rehabilitation. Other activities include a feasibility study for the rehabilitation of
major-damaged irrigation schemes, establishment of water user associations and training.
(a)    Light- to Medium-Damaged Irrigation Rehabilitation. Civil work activities will be employed in
the rehabilitation of a total of seven medium-scale irrigation schemes (average size of 205 ha each). These
schemes were selected after a sensitivity analysis was conducted on the findings of the 'Feasibility And
Engineering Study In Respect Of Rehabilitation Of Identified Irrigation Schemes In East Timor' by SNC
Lavalin which was contracted under ARP I. Absence of negative social or environmental impact was a key
criteria used in the original selection of the schemes (for other criteria, see activity (d) below). The works
will include the rehabilitation of main structures and canals, as well as secondary and tertiary canals that
would provide irrigation to an estimated 1,430 hectares. Upon completion of civil works, these schemes
will be turned over to the local Water User Associations (WUAs) for their operation and maintenance
(O&M). An estimated II Water Users' Associations members will be trained to operate and maintain the
rehabilitated schemes. Table 12.1 provides a list of the irrigation schemes and a rating of the potential
environmental impacts for each scheme prepared by the feasibility study.
- 113 -



Table 12.1 Summary of Environmental Impact Evaluation
Area (ha)                      Headwork           Environmental Impact
Name of Scheme                                        Structure
During      Post
Potential Functional Irrigable  Water Source     Pre Construction Construction Construction
Batugade        200      200      80    Spring        Weir           0 0 o         El       0 0
Marco           229      229      220   River         Free intake    0 0         0 0        0 0
Cailaco/Meligo  150      150      100   Spring        Free intake   0 0          o a        0 0
Naktuka         250      200      170   Spring        Weir           0 O 0    oo            00 
Tono            200      200      260   River & Spring Free intake  0 0          0 o        0 0
Oemathitu       10o      100      170   Spring        Weir          0 o          o [8       0 0
Seixal Down     540      190      430   River         Free Intake   0 0          o 0        0 0
Total          1,669    1,269    1,430
Legend
T  Intensity    Duration
Moderate       o            o
High           0
The potential environmental impact of these schemes were rated according to intensity (low, moderate or
high) and duration (short-term, medium-term or long-terrn) for the different phases of the activity. The table
suggests that the highest rating for the rehabilitation of the irrigation schemes to be moderate in intensity
and medium-term in persistence and occur mainly during the construction phase of the activity. Annex 6.1
of the original feasibility study (conducted by SNC Lavalin 1 ) provides a detailed description of the
potential environmental impacts for every phase of the rehabilitation for each scheme. During the
assessment, the list of proposed mitigation measures identified by the consultants was not found to be
particularly useful as it did not distinguish the actions that required response from the PMU and the actions
that lie beyond the scope and ability of the PMU. This problem was rectified in Annex 6.2 of the feasibility
study which separated the recommended nitigation measures to be taken by the PMU and those that
required wider government action. Both the annexes can be found in the Environmental Analysis report
listed in Annex 8. A summary is included on Table 12.2 below. The PMU should ensure that the proposed
mitigation measures are employed by the contractors and responsible parties during these phases. The
PMU will also include the monitoring of these mitigation measures in the terms of reference of the
supervision of works contract.
The operational phase of the irrigation scheme is not expected to produce significant negative
environrmental impact as it will bring back water into previously irrigated areas. Since irrigation water is
generally diverted from river flows during and immediately after the rainy season, the rehabilitation of
irrigation schemes will not affect ground water supply but will only reduce slightly the amount of runoff
water that goes to the sea. Attached to this document (Appendix 2) are land-use maps of the areas
surrounding the seven light- to medium irrigation schemes.
1/
See Annex 8.
- 114-



The assessment also identified the long-term incremental environmental impact of the irrigation schemes as
a potential risk. This includes issues such as the encroachment of irrigated lands into nearby mangrove
forests and springs, contamination of ground water through inappropriate use of fertilizers, and the spread
of diseases such as malaria. This impact, however, lies beyond the purview of the PMU both because of the
short life-span of the Project (two years) and the absence of policies and regulations related to
environmental control and management in East Timor. The PMU, however, should put in place water
quality monitoring to gauge the environmental performance of its schemes. Given the capacity constraints
of the PMU  on environmental management, it is recommended that the PMU  collaborate with the
Environment Protection Unit (EPU) to design and implement this activity. Against the absence of any water
quality standards in East Timor, the Project could refer to the "Government Regulation of The Republic of
Indonesia Number 20 of 1990 Concerning The Control of Water Pollution " or any other suitable standard
as a guide. As far as possible, the PMU should involve the Water User Associations in the monitoring
through the use of proxy indicators.
Table 12.2 Proposed Environmental Mitigation Measures for the Rehabilitation of Light-to-Medium
Damaged Irrigation Schemes
Scheme                   Environmental I                      Recommended Action for Project Management Unit
(PMU)
Batugade * The border to Atambua - Indonesia in northern   * Dry season construction as much as possible, to
Batugade     alluvial plain;                                   reduce loss of agriculture;
* water sources from fracture springs (Aumoduk and  * to minimize risk of malaria, maintain waterfiow in
Lotan) and the Lotan weir is in good condition;   canals (minimize mosquito breeding); flush and
* the upper watershed located in Indonesia (West    drain system at regular intervals; control vegetation
Timor NTT) and probably deforested;               in canals and drainage channels;
* high incidence of malaria;                      * community based organizations for effective
&protect important bird and reptile habitat, palm.  environmental monitoring.
Marco      * Water source from Bulobo river (right intake) and as   * Dust can be reduced with water spraying of
part of Loes Watershed. Canal build along the river;  dirt;
* Maliana I scheme (517 ha) draws water from same    * public consultation meeting canals, roads
river upstream. Other scheme exist at left intake;  related to land use and water allocation
* upper watershed is subjected to deforestation due to  with Maliana 11 and left intake roads;
illegal logging and shifting cultivation leading to  * dry season construction as much as possible
downstream sedimentation and flooding;            to reduce sedimentation and loss of
* Risk of malaria due to improper system operation;  agriculture production;
* Dust during construction.                       * O&M training to teach proper maintenance
of irrigation system;
*community based organizations for effective
environmental monitoring.
Cailaco/    * Water source mainly from Boroloka spring at one  * Preparation of booklets on health, sanitation, family
(Maligo)      tributary of Loes Watershed;                      planning, environmental management association
* high incidence of malaria;                        (WUA);
* upper watershed forestry (upper watershed is still  * dry season construction as much as possible to
well-covered with forests, but these are under   reduce sedimentation and loss of agriculture;
pressure);                                      * to minimize risk of malaria, maintain waterflow in
* suffer from flooding at middle scheme caused by   canals (minimize mosquito breeding); flush and
overbank spills from river,                       drain system at regular production intervals; control
* downstream potential sawah not developed yet      vegetation in canals and drainage channels;
* community based organizations for effective
___________________ __   environmental monitoring.
-115 -



Table 12.2 Proposed Environmental Mitigation Measures for the Rehabilitation of Light-to-Medium
Damaged Irnigation Schemes (Cont'd)
Scheme                    Environmental Issues                Recommended Action for Project Management Unit
._____________________________________                              (PMU)
Naktuka     * Adverse land use including deforestation close to    * Monitor regularly changes in land use around the
spring and in the recharge area,               recharge area of the spring and advise DAA and
* Sudden increased population from retumed refugees,  appropriate authorities if land use changes cause
* Some public health concem from malaria if water  concem,
supply system not sealed,                    * Monitor resettlement projects in the area and take
* Increased use of pesticides / fertilisers on  action as above to ensure new habitation do not
groundwater and return flow.                   encroach spring and its recharge area
* Ensure proper design of spring rehabilitation.
* Ensure training in usage of pesticides/fertilizers for
DAA staff and farmers
Tono      * Adverse land use including deforestation close to  * Monitor regularly changes in land use around
spring and in the recharge area,               the recharge area of the spring and advise
* Some public health concem from malaria if water  DAA and appropriate authorities if land use
supply system not sealed,                       changes cause concern,
* Ensure proper design of spring rehabilitation
to avoid stagnant water from improper
drainage
Oemathitu   * Current land use is appropriate for spring protection  * It is important that land use be developed in
but concems that land clearing is occurring     a sustainable manner so as not to affect
* Some public health concerns from malaria if water  adversely the quality of the water emanating
supply system not sealed properly. Likewise, low  from the spring. Habitat preservation would
flow in irrigation canals may result in conditions that   be a good indicator of sustainability.
are conducive to breeding of vectors.         * Ensure proper design of spring rehabilitation
to avoid stagnant water from improper
drainage
'cal Down   * Water source from Seical river with one permanent  * Preparation of booklets on health, sanitation, family
Seical        free intake (Asasege) and traditional free intake  planning, environmental management association
(Kasameta) prominent to flooding;              (WUA);
* Two systerns present in the scheme (up and   . to minimize risk of malaria, maintain waterflow in
downstream intake) with water source from Seical    canals (minimize mosquito breeding); flush and drain
river;                                         system at regular intervals; control vegetation in canals
. Upper watershed may be subjected to deforestation    and drainage channels;
due to illegal logging and shifting cultivation leading * community based organizations for effective
to downstream sedimentation and flooding.      environmental monitoring.
International Waterways. Irrigation schemes located in tributaries linked to the Naktuka river in Oecussi
and the Nunura and Malibaka rivers in Bobonaro will fall under the Operational Policy on Intemational
Waterways (OP 7.50), as these rivers are shared with Indonesia. However, an exception to this policy has
been granted under paragraph 7(a) The policy provides for an exception for "any ongoing schemes, projects
involving additions or alterations that require rehabilitation, construction, or other changes that in the judgment
of the Bank (i) will not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians; and (ii) will
not be adversely affected by the other riparians' possible water use. This exception applies only to minor
additions or alterations to the ongoing scheme; it does not cover works and activities that would exceed the
original scheme, change its nature, or so alter or expand its scope and extent as to make it appear a new or
different scheme" (paragraph 7(a) of OP 7.50). of the policy based on the following considerations: (i) the
proposed rehabilitation will not involve any major additions or alterations of existing schemes, but just
rehabilitation of presently operational schemes to enable their full operating potential; (ii) because the
schemes are simply being rehabilitated, the water quantity requirements will remain the same in relation to
the original schemes, with no decline in water quality; and (iii) the possibility that riparian users in
- 116-



Indonesia will have an adverse impact on the schemes is considered very unlikely given the location of the
schemes in the border areas, the location of the intakes (inside East Timor), the physiographic and
geological characteristics of the border (making it unlikely that dams, large captive storage reservoirs,
major agricultural chemical disasters, or industrial complexes would be developed), and the small size of
the schemes relative to the size of the catchment, ensuring that the water yield of basins is sufficient to
support anticipated riparian demand.
All light- to medium-damaged irrigation schemes proposed for rehabilitation under ARP II were screened to
ensure that they complied with the exception to the policy. However, it was not possible to assess up front
the location of the community based irrigation schemes and this is discussed below in paragraph (b).
The Feasibility study also conducted a social assessment of the irrigation schemes. A rating of the schemes
was made based on indices such the level of poverty, number or beneficiaries, cropping intensity and yield,
willingness to contribute to the operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes, etc. Details of this
assessment can be obtained in Chapters 3 and 8 of the Feasibility Study report. Table 12.3 provides the
ratings given to the 7 schemes that will be rehabilitated under ARP II.
Table 12.3 Rating of Irrigation Schemes Based on Social Assessment
AREA (Hectares)                               CRITERIA
Name of  Based on TOR                Poor Farmers' (I)          Beneficiaries (2)        Willing-   Total
Scheme                   Recom-   Net   Cropping Crop   Land         Nr.of   Farmer's    ness
Potent. Functi. Mended Income  Intensity  Yield ownership  household   Group  to O&M (3) Score
Batugade      200    200      80       1       3       2       4         1         4          4        19
Marco         229    229      220      4       3       2       3         1         4          4       21
Cailaco/Meligo  150    150    100      2       3       2       5         1         4          4       21
Naktuka       250    200      170      2       4       2       5         1         4          4       22
Tono          200    200      260     2        4       2       5         3         4          4       24
Oemathitu     100    100      170      2       4       4       5         3         4          4       26
Seixal Down    540    190    430       5       4       2      4          2         4          4       25
The policy applies to irrigation projects that receive water of international character defined ....as (i) any river,
canal, lake, or similar body of water that forms a boundary between, or any river or body of surface water that
flows through, two or more states, whether Bank members or not, (ii) any tributary or any body of surface water
that is a component of any waterway described in (i) above, (iii) any bay, gulf strait, or channel bounded by two
or more states or, if within one state, recognized as a necessary channel or communication between the open sea
and other states/and any riverflowing into such waters. "
- 117-



Legend
Criteria                                    Scoring
I POOR FARMERS         High priority to scheme with have lowest average   Net Income (US$)/hh/yr:
net income from agriculture activities.           negative net income    5
(Calculation based on net income in kind converted  0 - 500              4
Into present value in US$)                        500 - 1000             3
1000 - 2000           2
> 2000                1
2 CROPPING              Give priority to areas with low rice and          Total crop intensity:
INTENSITY            low total cropping intensities. Provided          < 100%                 4
water is available, rehabilitation should         100 - 150%             3
tend to raise cropping intensities.               151- 2000/o            2
201 - 2500/o          I
> 2500/%              0
3 CROP YIELD            Give priority to areas with low existing          Average yield I & 11:
rice yields. Use average yields for sea-           < 2 t/ha              4
sons I and 11 (dry rice)                          2 - 4 t/ha             2
> 4 t/ha             I
not present           0
4 BENEFICIARIES         Give priority to schemes that average farm-size   Land Ownership
per household is smaller                            < 0.5 ha             5
Area considered is total potential area and       0.5 - I ha             4
ownership means total area divided by number       I - 2  ha             3
of house-hold on each scheme                       2 -4  ha              2
>4  ha              I
If based on field information not enough farmer                        NCF*
comparing farn area, should Not Considered Further
5 NUMBER OF            Additional score given to scheme have more         Nr. Of household
HOUSEHOLD            more farmers or households                        > 1000                 3
500 -1000             2
<500                  1
6 FARMER'S GROUP   High priority for schemes that have organization       Farmer's Group
of farmer such as Water User Association          Available, active      4
or traditional group as Kabuel                    Available, not active  2
Not Available         0
7 WILLINGNESS          Give priority to areas with high activity of       Operation & Maintenance:
TO CONTRIBUTE        farmers for operation and maintenance             High                   4
IN O&M               Decision have to consider the                     Moderate               2
existing condition of canal and structures        Low                    I
that assume as indicator of farmers activity      Poor                   0
* Not considered further
- 118-



(b)    Community Irrigation Rehabilitation. This activity will involve the rehabilitation of small-scale
irrigation schemes through community participation. An estimated 2,100 ha of sawah lands are expected to
be irrigated through this means. The community, in addition, will be organized and trained to operate and
maintain the schemes. Any potential environmental impact arising from this activity is expected to be local
and temporary. This includes dust generation, local turbidity of watercourses, and localized downstream
erosion arising from river diversion. The PMU, through its interaction with the community, will screen the
proposals against the same checklist as developed for Component 1, and would provide information on
environmental best practices and preventive measures for the activities. No community irrigation schemes
will be supported inside protected areas.
Given the small-scale nature of the works, it is expected that the exception to the Intemational Waters
Policy (see above) will also apply. The initial screening procedure for community irrigation works will
alert DAA staff whether the policy could apply. Any proposed community schemes that might potentially
fall under the policy will subsequently be reviewed in consultation with IDA to ensure that they qualify for
the exception. The exception will be applicable if the proposed schemes involve only minor additions or
alterations of an ongoing scheme that (i) will not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to
Indonesian riparians and (ii) will not be adversely affected by Indonesians riparians' possible water uses. In
cases where this cannot be ensured, the schemes will not be considered for rehabilitation under the Project.
A covenant to this effect has been included in the Grant Agreement.
(c)    Rural Road Rehabilitation. The aim of this activity is to facilitate the transport of agricultural
production to markets and to provide work opportunities for rural people. An estimated total of 100 km of
farm-to-market access roads will be repaired and maintained through community participation. This
activity is not expected to produce significant negative environmental impacts as it involves the
rehabilitation of existing unpaved roads, without any lengthening or enlargement of alignment, by local
populations using hand tools and hand handled materials.
(d)    Feasibility Study for Major-Damaged Irrigation Schemes. Under ARP II, a feasibility study for
larger irrigation schemes included a reconnaissance level screening for three existing schemes with heavy
damage. The study reconmmended three schemes, in Baucau (Seical Up), Bobonaro (Maliana I), and
Viqueque (Oetelari). They will be assessed against the same criteria used for the selection of the light- to
medium-damaged irrigation schemes:
*     The rehabilitation of the schemes should have an economic rate of return of at least 10 percent,
estirnated through an economic analysis, and a robust sensitivity analysis allowing for at least 10
percent variation in production and input costs.
*     The rehabilitation should have no negative social or environmental impact.
*     The rehabilitation should have a high number of beneficiary participation and users willing to take
over responsibility for about 50 percent of the costs of regular operation and maintenance.
*     The schemes should have acceptable recurrent cost implications for the future Government.
ARP 11 has allocated funds to contract out this feasibility study. If viable, these three schemes will be
funded through a supplementary grant to ARP II, estimated at US$3 million. The Bank will review the
social, economic, environmental, and technical feasibility of the schemes before a decision is made to
proceed with the investment.
- 119-



Because of the larger scale involved in the rehabilitation of these three existing schemes, the terms of
reference for the feasibility study should include three items:
*      The site suitability of these schemes in relation to protected and environmentally sensitive areas,
international water issues, and social issues.
*      an environmental assessment that identifies the potential impacts during the different stages of civil
works and proposes appropriate mitigation measures, and
*      an environmental management plan that is compatible with the capacity of the PMU.
As for Component 1, the Project will not support investments in areas where there are known outstanding
land claims.
Component 3: Services to Farmers
Three major sub-components that will be financed by this component include: (i) Information to Farmers;
(ii) Sustainable Animal Health Services; and (iii) Pilot Agriculture Service Centers (PASCs).
(a)    Information to Farmers.  This sub-component will provide information to farmers, and help
establish a liaison secretariat of the Consultative Group on International Agriculture Research
(CGIAR centers) in East Timor. The aim will be to establish a basic foundation for a more
effective two-way communication system between isolated farmers, the Government, and NGOs
which could result in a better channeling of Government assistance, and help establish networks
with centers of international expertise.
There are no significant negative environmental issues associated with this component. A fully functional
farmer information system, in fact, may facilitate greater environmental informnation exchange. In
particular, it may help to improve farmer response to potential environmental issues.
(b)    Sustainable Animal Health Services. This activity will continue with the vaccination program
started under ARP I and establish a system of Village Livestock Workers (VLWs) in all districts.
It will also finance the organization of a cold chain system for the storage and distribution of
vaccines. There are no significant negative environmental issues associated with this activity.
(c)    Pilot Agriculture Service Centers (PASCs). The Project will help consolidate and operationalize
three Pilot Agricultural Service Centers (PASCs) that will have been established under ARP I.
Subject to a successful evaluation of these initial pilots at mid-term, the Project will help establish
an estimated 2-3 additional PASCs in other locations. The purpose of the PASCs is to provide
farming communities with the agricultural services they require that are not currently provided by
other businesses in the area. The PASCs will be legal commercial entities owned and governed by
the villages or villagers the centers serve. The establishment of the PASCs will make it easier for
farrners to have access to farm inputs and support services. The centers will not require the
construction of new buildings but only the rehabilitation of existing buildings, operating under
long-term leases.
Feedback from farmers and extension workers during field visits have revealed a high expectation level for
the use of pesticides and fertilizers. The intensification of rice production following the rehabilitation of
irrigation schemes will add greater pressure on farmers for such inputs. In addition, farmers complain that
pests have developed resistance to current traditional methods and therefore require stronger and more
- 120 -



potent agents. The PMU should take this feedback seriously in the design and implementation of the PASC.
In particular, PASC's involvement in providing inputs to farmers should be guided by two important
issues:
*     the importance of appropriate fertilizer and pesticide use, and,
*     the limited human resource and budgetary capacity at the districts to provide such extension needs.
As a mitigation measure, ARP II will finance the procurement of fertilizers and pesticides by the PASCs on
the condition that they and the extension agents stationed at their headquarters provide training and
awareness about safe and sustainable fertilizer and pesticide usage. All procurement of pesticides by the
PASCs should be in accordance with the World Bank Operational Policy OP 4.09, which forbids the
procurement of dangerous pesticides classified as Class 1 by the World Health Organization (Table 12.4).
In addition, the procurement of pesticides will have to adhere to UNTAET "Regulation on the Importation
and Use of Agriculture Chemicals in East Timor" (under finalization), which is in line with the FAO
International Code of Conduct on Distribution and Use of Pesticides, the Stockholm Convention on
Persistent Organic Pollutants (agreed in December 2000) and the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior
Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade. DAA
staff will receive training on integrated pest management (IPM) as part of the technical training provided
by the Project, and are expected to promote IPM measures to farmers in the course of their extension work.
The proposed PASC in Aileu will be located in an organic coffee producing area. Besides providing
small-scale output marketing and commercial transport, this PASC will be linked to the NCBA/Cafe Timor
farmer cooperative supported by USAID and suppliers of other major stakeholders such as Timorcorp and
Delta Cafe. Timorese organic coffee has an intemational market and is one of the few export items from the
agricultural sector. The private sector driven certification process used in this industry provides a strong
incentive to ensure that farmers do not violate the organic basis of coffee production. The PMU will ensure,
however, that the storage and sale of pesticides and other agrochemicals by the PASCs are strictly
prohibited in this area.
Component 4: Program Management
The Project will finance two sub-components under this component: (i) Policy and Strategy and, (ii) Project
Management and Capacity Building.
(a)    Policy and Strategy. The project will finance the study and production of policy option notes on
strategic issues such as East Timor's agricultural policy and forest strategy.
(b)    Project Management and Capacity Building. This sub-component will carry out the overall
management of the project and capacity building. The project will provide equipment, vehicles,
training, services and operational costs in support of the following activities:
Improved transportation and offices for District DAA
Training and workshops
*     Core project advisors
*     Monitoring and evaluation and general operations
The Project Management Unit established in ARP I will continue in ARP II under the direct responsibility
of the Director of Agricultural Affairs (DAA) or equivalent position under the new Ministry. Core staff in
the PMU will include a project management advisor, procurement, finance, monitoring and evaluation
specialists (assisted initially by international advisors) and a training specialist.
- 121 -



The PMU will be responsible for ensuring the environmental and social safeguards of the Project. Staff
will be advocates for the environment and for sustainable farming practices, under training funded by the
Project. The goal is to help farmers develop integrated cropping and livestock systems including
agroforestry based systems that pernit improved nutrient cycling and biological control of pests and
diseases. The Project is designed to help farmers achieve sustainable intensification, which ensures
simultaneous increase in retums to land and labor and the maintenance of soil nutrient balance.
Investment in farm inputs will be provided only to sustain the economic and environmental framework of
the prevailing traditional production system which relies on locally available resources instead of purchased
extemally produced inputs.
The PMU will be responsible for all the mechanics of the Project: preparing, advertising, evaluating tenders
and awarding contracts for the procurement of civil works; obtaining clearances, including customs;
managing the Project's special account; making payments and keeping accounts; implementing,
supervising, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of Project activities; and submitting to IDA
Project progress and implementation completion reports. In preparing and evaluating tenders, PMU staff
will be formulating contracts and selecting contractors based, in part, on enviromnentally compatible
construction methods and least-disturbance techniques. These contracts should also include the provisions
for mitigation measures identified earlier. Part of the monitoring and evaluation of the project will include
an environmental monitoring program.
- 122 -



Table 12.4. World Health Organization List of Toxic Pesticides (Class la and lb)
Extremely Hazardous Pesticides          Highly Hazardous Pesticides           Highly Hazardous Pesticides
Class I (a)                            Class I (b)                       Class I (b) Cont'd
Aldicarb (ISO)                         Acrolein (C)                           Paris green (C)
Brodifacoum (ISO)                      Allyl alcohol (C)                      Penthachlorophenol (ISO)
Bromadiolone (ISO)                     Azinphos-ethyl (ISO)                   Pindone (ISO)
Bromethalin (ISO)                      Azinphos-methyl (ISO)                  Pirimiphos-ethyl (ISO)
Calcium cynide (C)                     Blasticidin-S                          Propaphos
Captafol (ISO)                         Butocarboxim (ISO)                     Propetamphos (ISO)
Chlorethoxyfos (ISO)                   Butoxycarboxim (ISO)                   Sodium arsenite (C)
Chlormephos (ISO)                      Cadusafos (ISO)                        Sodium cymide (C)
Chlorophacinone (ISO)                  Calcium arsenate (C)                   Strychnine (C)
Difenacoum (ISO)                       Carbofuran (ISO)                       Tefluthrin
Difethialone (ISO)                     Chlorfenvinphos (ISO)                  Thallium sulfate (C)
Diphacinone (ISO)                      3-Chloro-1, 2-propanediol (C)          Thiofanox (ISO)
Disulfoton (ISO)                       Coumaphos (ISO)                        Thiometon (ISO)
EPN                                    Coumatetralyl (ISO)                    Triazophos (ISO)
Ethoprophos (ISO)                      Zeta-cypennethrin (ISO)                Vamidothion (ISO)
Flocoumafen                            Demeton-S-methyl (ISO)                 Warfarin (ISO)
Fonofos (ISO)                          Dichlorvos (ISO)                       Zinc Phosphide (C)
Hexachlorobenzene (ISO)                Dicrotophos (ISO)
Mercuric chloride (ISO)                Dinoterb (ISO)
Mevinphos (ISO)                        DNOC (ISO)
Parathion (ISO)                        Edifenphos (ISO)
Parathion-methyl (ISO)                 Ethiofencarb (ISO)
Phenylmercury acetate (ISO)            Famphur
Phorate (ISO)                          Fenamiphos (ISO)
Phosphamidon                           Flucythrinate (ISO)
Sodium fluoroacetate (C)               Fluoroacetamide (C)
Sulfotep (ISO)                         Formetanate (ISO)
Tebupirimfos (ISO)                     Furathiocarb
Terbufos (ISO)                         Heptenophos (ISO)
Isazofos (ISO)
Isofenphos (ISO)
Isoxathion (ISO)
Lead arsenate (C)
Mecarbam (ISO)
Mercuric oxide (ISO)
Methamidophos (ISO)
Methadathion (ISO)
Methiocarb (ISO)
Methomyl (ISO)
Monocrotophos (ISO)
Nicotine (ISO)
Omethoate (ISO)
Oxamyl (ISO)
Oxydemeton-methyl (ISO)
ISO: Intemational Standard Organization
C:   Corporate
The potential environmental impacts of each of the project components and the remedies included in the
Project are indicated in the matrix below.
- 123 -



Table 12. 5. Potential Environmental Impacts and Remedies of Project Sub- Components
Project Subcomponent        Potential Environmental Impact   Project Remedial Action
Village  level development  Impacts are not significant due to   Community activities will be screened against criteria (to be
and    natural    resource  small scale of activities. Better  included  in  the  Operational Manual) to  evaluate  their
management activity.        water supply  in uplands may  environmental and social soundness (including possible impact
improve  land  management of  on cultural property and existence of known land claims).
vitlage farmlands.               In the remote case that any community activities would involve
land acquisition or resettlement, adequate compensation would
be provided in accordance with East Timor's Land Acquisition
and Resettlement Policy Framework.
Social assessment will help identify potential vulnerable groups
in upland areas which may need special outreach to receive
information and benefits from Project.
Rehabilitation  of irrigation  Impacts are local and temporary.  DAA  (or successor thereof) will  ensure that mitigation
schemes would bring back   Summary description of impacts  measures for larger schemes will  be included in TOR of
into irrigation areas that are  and mitigation measures proposed  consultants undertaking supervision of works, and that an
within  existing  irrigation   are given in table 12.2        environmental assessment will be included in the TOR for
schemes and are presently                                     feasibility study of major irrigation schemes.
starved of water.                                             DAA (or successor thereof) will provide for water  quality
monitoring of light-to-medium damaged schemes.
Community rehabilitation activities will be screened against the
same environmental and social criteria as component I
(including possible impact on cultural property and existence of
known land claims).
No irrigation or road rehabilitation activities will be supported
inside protected areas.
Rehabilitation of agriculture  The  rehabilitation  would  be  DAA  (or successor thereof) will   provide  advice  on
access roads.               undertaken only on existing roads  environmental best practice to local communities involved in
and would not enlarge or lengthen  road rehabilitation.
them. Impacts will be local and
temporary.
The  establishment of the  PASCs could make access and  The Project will procure pesticides according to Operational
Pilot Agriculture  Services  use of fertilizers and pesticides  Policy 4.09 (excluding all Class I toxic pesticides) and
Centers                     easier and could potentially harm   UNTAET's "Regulation  on the Importation  and Use of
environment and users.           Agriculture Chemicals in East Timor", under finalization.
DAA will provide training to agriculture staff on Integrated
Pest Management and information and training to farmers on
safe and sustainable use of pesticides.
DAA will ban the sales of pesticides and agrochemicals by
PASCs in areas of organic coffee production.
All components              There is a need to ensure public  DAA  will ensure  adequate public  disclosure  of Project
disclosure   of   key   project  activities, and availability of relevant documents (including the
documents.                       Project  Environmental  Analysis)  in  publicly  accessible
locations (such as DAA Web page and library).  In addition,
copies of the Project Information Document, Environmental
Analysis, and Environmental Data Sheet will be available at the
World Bank Public Information Center.
- 124 -



Additional
Annex 13
Main Results Of The Preliminary Social Assessment
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
A.    Introduction
The preliminary Social Assessment (SA) was based on a review of surveys and reports, including data
from on-going TFET projects, and supplemented by site visits. Some of the findings of the SA were
predictable from the outset, such as the multi-faceted, chronic nature of poverty in the uplands and the
complex interactions between the farmers, their families, and their environment. East Timor has been
impoverished for a very long time and so some of the causes of this poverty are well known and deeply
rooted. However, the near total destruction that was left in the wake of separation from Indonesia caused
even greater hardship.
Although the people of East Timor would not fit the World Bank's Indigenous Peoples definition, there is a
surprisingly complex mix of relatively isolated social groups. Despite being small in terms of population
(with about 880,000 people) and land area (154,000 sq km), it contains many groups with different
cultures and languages, undertaking a wide range of different socioeconomic activities, ranging from sea
fishing and salt farming along the coast, to irrigated rice production, through to subsistence upland
agriculture and coffee growing. Anecdotal evidence from experienced fieldworkers indicates that even
between similar types of communities, for example sawah (rice land) farmers, large differences can be
expected in their willingness to take up new technologies or spend more time working their land.
Hierarchies in East Timorese society are surprisingly similar in structure but different in character. Most
sucos (villages) have traditional, administrative, and religious leaders. While some leaders have power and
influence over large sections of the community, there are also those who are leaders only in name because
of their genealogy. In some places the traditional structures hold firm. Elsewhere, they are weak and the
administrative or clandestine leaders hold sway. Such variations is a result of the long-standing subversion
of local power bases by the colonial powers.
This Annex summarizes the results of the preliminary social assessment of ARP II. More complete results
can be found in the social assessment report included in the Project files (see Annex 8).
B.    Key Findings
Crops in Upland areas in East Timor can be very roughly divided into two main types: food crop areas
and coffee-growing areas, though there are also substantial areas under tree crops or forest from which
farmers may be able to harvest materials such as tamarind, candlenut, and sandlewood. Farming in the
uplands tends to be on small plots of rainfed, subsistence cultivation. In many places only a part of the
available plot is farned, under a modified shifting cultivation system. Crops include dryland rice, cassava,
maize, tomato, and other vegetables. Farmers often practice mixed cropping and tend to plant the same
crop every year. In most areas these crops are not a source of significant income although there would seem
to be potential for increasing both diversity of crop and intensity of cropping. In a few places, the
vegetables grown have economic potential, but the quality is poor and transport costs are high. In these
locations farmers may chose to plant a single type of crop and intensify inputs, such as fertilizers or
- 125-



pesticides, although over the past year, these have been too expensive for many farmers to access. Coffee
growing areas tend to be in forest plantations, but reasonably well defined and established. Quality of
product is low, despite the fact that East Timor is theoretically capable of producing some of the world's
finest beans. A helicopter journey across the island shows astonishing variety of upland settlements, from
densely packed centers of habitation to linear villages that have grown along roads or mountain-tops, to
extremely sparsely scattered farms.
Farming systems in lowland areas are usually considered to be wealthier than the uplands, mainly
because of the large amounts of irrigated rice that can be grown there, gaining up to three harvests per
year. This ignores the generally impoverished fishing communities and the "salt-farmers" whose main
income is extraction of salt from seawater. Some of these coastal communities are among the poorest in
East Timor. Many rice farmers have traditionally used methods that are not particularly productive. One of
the most frequently criticized aspects of this system is called rencah this is the "puddling" of the land that
is achieved by driving animals (usually buffalo or cattle) across the muddy paddy field. This is supposed to
prepare the field for planting in much the same way as ploughing, but the actual result is a highly uneven
field which leads to an uneven harvest.
Alhough the lowlanders have seen many examples of different and clearly superior farmring practices, not
least from the Indonesian transmigrants who have now fled, the reluctance to change to better systems is
remarkable. These ineffective systems are one reason why harvests have averaged only two tons per hectare
in East Timor, as opposed to four or five in Java. Part of the reluctance was because the farmers did not
wish to adopt practices from Indonesia. But there is also a reluctance to move from a traditional method,
especially one which forces farmers to interact. Another reason for not changing was that the wealthier
landowners, those with the animals, made a substantial living by hiring out their animals for the rencah.
But these things are changing, especially with the introduction of farm machinery, and hand tractors in
particular are starting to make a difference (one reason why they are such a popular choice among
farmers). Lowland villages tend to be more densely populated than the uplands, usually with much better
access to basic services. They follow a more typical Asian village model, with most hamlets settled amidst
trees in walking distance from their respective rice fields.
Markets of agricultural products were not just disrupted at the end of 1999, they were destroyed.
Although these markets have gradually returned to operation many of the local farmers have complained
that they still find it hard to sell their produce. It is ironic to hear the East Timorese farmers complain that
now the transmigrants are gone there is no market for their vegetables. Not only is the purchasing power of
local people very low, but their diet is also poor with vitamin deficiencies among children being common.
Logistical problems early in the crisis, such as a lack of sacks for carrying rice, have recently been eased.
A much more serious problem, however, is that the buyers themselves have limited resources. In the past,
traders would come to the farmers often to put a deposit on their products well before it was time to
harvest. The farmer would know the rough price that could be expected and would bargain on his own
property. These buyers now either no longer have access to money and transportation, or they have left
East Timor altogether. This problem is compounded by the low purchasing power of the farmers, given the
inflated prices of many commodities.
Reasons for subsistence farming. One of the reasons why farmers have not felt compelled to create a
surplus is that, for as long as anyone can remember, they were continually getting a poor level of profit
from sales. Dependent as they were on a small number of traders, they were rarely able to benefit very
much for their toil. Another reason for their reluctance was that, as with many other places in Asia, the
extended family would tend to drain any surplus as soon as it was made. The closely knit extended family
acts as a strong social safety net, but it also brings with it heavy obligations. There is a disincentive to
- 126 -



produce more and can actually be criticized as going against cultural norms.
Availability offarm labor. The labor force now have high wage expectations and few real opportunities.
Unskilled wage rates are between Rp. 25,000 and Rp. 30,000 per day - ten times the rate across the border
in West Timor. The jump is due to the inflationary post-conflict "bubble" created by a mixture of poorly
designed projects (raising expectations of US$ 3 per day) and a genuine scarcity of goods in the
marketplace. But there is also a longer-term factor at play: East Timorese farmers have always leant
towards subsistence farming rather than intensive, profit-orientated agriculture. Paid farm labour has never
been particularly common; there has instead been a number of ways through which each farner could work
with others nearby to share workloads and harvests. This has led to some observers saying that the farmers
live outside of a cash economy - though not strictly true, it does indicate the importance of mutual help and
bartering in the traditional systems.
Dependence on charity. This has begun to be a problem in surprisingly few places when seen in the
context of the size of the aid effort for East Timor in recent months. Where local purchasing power is low,
this trend seems to be starting to take hold. The expectation that foreign funds will be continually pouring
into the rural economy has been tempered, ironically, by the lateness of parts of the rehabilitation program.
Reduction of free food supplies will have a positive impact on the farmers of East Timor, especially if this
is combined with a concerted effort to improve family nutrition, and may help to fuel a revival of the
agricultural sector.
Status of road networks and transportation. Roads and transportation are on top of the list of needs for
most communities. Costs for getting people and products to the nearest towns are prohibitively high,
making it expensive to buy goods and so costly to move surplus harvest that farmers cannot make a
reasonable profit. The situation was greatly worsened in some of the districts when, at the end of 1999 and
beginning of 2000, a series of floods resulted in entire subdistricts being totally isolated for weeks.
IJNTAET and the intemational peacekeepers have done much to keep the main road networks open. But
they have not been able to resuscitate the transport sector, which was devastated by the theft of hundreds of
vehicles and the severing of transport links with West Timor during the troubles of 1999. Despite the
potential profits to be made, many investors feared the risk of having vehicles stolen and taken across the
border.
The high price of fuel has often been blamed for high transport costs. Unlike the subsidized fuel in
Indonesia, East Timor imports fuel from abroad and imposes a tax on it. The scarcity of vehicles and spare
parts is another factor in keeping transport costs high. Recently large numbers of Chinese motorcycles have
become available relatively cheaply, but most of these remain in Dili. Most of the other vehicles in East
Timor stay in or near the capital, where the money is to be found.
Traditional obligations. These remain important to farmers in all communities. No matter how poor the
families, they will always try to put aside some surplus for traditional obligations. To abdicate on this
obligation would be unacceptable, and families have gone heavily in debt rather than risk that social
stigma.
Status of rural women in East Timor. Women tend to be the least well informed, and take a secondary
role in decision making and property "ownership". It is widely accepted in the community that the oldest
man in the family assumes the right to speak on their behalf. This is true of most households, although
those headed by widows can be an exception. As in other countries, their workload is relatively heavier
compared to that of men. They are expected to take care of the family, to wash clothes, clean, prepare the
food. Women are involved in fetching besides taking active part in farm work. Any program which seeks to
be participative should strive to encourage women to express their concems and wishes for the future,
- 127 -



resulting in a different set of priorities.
The Social Assessment suggests an approach that will enable farmers, including rural women, to decide on
the interventions most suitable to their situation. This approach must try to avoid the long planning
processes of CEP and the drawbacks of the top-down mechanisms of ARP I. The nature of ARP II, with its
participatory development strategy, demands that communities, including men and women, are given a fair
chance to discuss, plan, and control, project activities. The may be achieved through bringing women
together as a separate group prior to a village meeting. Many projects that have tried this strategy (e.g.,
CEP) have proven that women have different project ideas than men. These tend to look beyond short-term
economic benefits but focus on issues on raising the quality of life of the family.
People have mixed expectations for the future. Not surprisingly, the poor people tend to be more
pessimistic, with the poorest upland farmers almost fatalistic at their future. The rice farmers expect much
more and may be prepared to demand it. Since they have been continually better off, and the focus of
previous government projects, this is also to be expected. Expectations were at their highest in the weeks
following the withdrawal of the Indonesian armed forces. But dreams of a life free from poverty and
hardship soon gave way to a realization that there would be no major changes, at least in the short-term. It
is certain that these hopes and dreams be resurrected by politicians prior to the first national election of
East Timor. Opinions differ as to whether this will lead to a violent election or not. At least one project
(Community Empowerment Project or CEP) has decided to hold back on activities during the pre-election
and post-election periods.
Status of agricultural extension services. These services have been requested by some farmers. This is
somewhat surprising after the distrust felt by farmers for the Indonesian extension service. The focus was
always top-down, sector- led extension rather than responsive or carefully targeted inputs. A change to
greater demand responsiveness and appropriateness would result in a much more effective use of the scarce
available resources. This type of service demands greater levels of professionalism and dedication, which in
turn requires not just more training but a major change in mindset among extension workers, but many
farmers are eager to get this kind of support.
Availability offarming inputs. Inputs are also frequently requested, although farmers sometimes admit to
not knowing, for example, correct usage levels of fertilizer or pesticide. More than anything, the farmers
ask for machinery and credit. Agricultural machinery that has been requested falls into two clear
categories: tractors (usually hand tractors) and simple processing machines (especially machines for milling
rice and coffee beans). Credit is requested for a variety of reasons, including buying seed(lings), inputs,
feeds, and livestock. Hundreds of hand tractors have been distributed, but sources of credit remain elusive,
especially for upland farmers.
Most urgently needed interventions. It appears that the most urgent intervention requested are related to
rebuilding the farm-to-market and market-to-consumer linkages. This has to be done in a way that
encourages local entrepreneurs to flourish, and not create short term solutions that kill the newly reborn
wholesale/retail sectors. Simple interventions, such as attempts to increase farmer knowledge of market
prices and the reduction of disincentives to small scale investors, will go a long way to creating the right
environment.
Increasing farmer confidence is a key. This requires effective communication that the situation is
improving and ensuring that things actually do improve meaningfully and visibly. The first of these requires
a professional communications strategy that is imnplemented as a popular campaign. The second, which
should feed frequent stories to the first, requires the tackling of problems in a demand-based manner. The
- 128-



need for more responsiveness is not simply good politics, it is good economic sense.
Some more "top-down " initiatives will be required to recreate support services. There will be a need to
encourage acceptance of schemes where, for example, farmers have to pay for veterinary services (e.g.
vaccines).
Credit lines are almost non-existent. Credit is not accessible to poor farmers. A very small number of
people have borrowed from CEP, and fewer still from TFET's Small Enterprises Project SEP provides loans
of a minimum of US$500 (US$1,000 in the second SEP project). The ADB-managed Micro-Finance Project is
responsible for the provision of micro-credit, and has recently began disbursing loans. (SEP), but the impacts are
small in comparison with the scale of the problem. This is more often a result of not wishing to take out
loans that cannot be repaid under the terms of the Project concemed. It would be wrong to assume that
such access is a main prerequisite to increased agricultural production. No single program methodology is
likely to reach the poorest in each of these types of communities, unless it relies heavily upon the poor in
those communities making the decisions.
The Social Assessment points towards using an approach that will really enable farmers, including rural
women, to decide on the interventions most suitable to their situation. Such an approach must try to avoid
the long planning processes of CEP and the drawbacks of the top-down mechanisms of
ARP I. This approach needs to be applicable in a wide range of cultural settings and geographic locations.
It is therefore, recommended that ARP II interventions would include the following:
*      Encourage real coordination with the traditional leadership. This institution should play an active
role in planning and supervision of ARP I community-driven activities. At the same time the
Project will ensure that abuses of authority and elite capture is avoided. This can be done through
the inclusion of beneficiary groups in the formulation of proposals and the channeling of funds
through the village councils for ultimate allocation to beneficiary groups.
-      IThe institution of traditional leadership is a crucial factor for mobilizing village support and
ensuring the success of the Project. All efforts should be made to ensure that the leaders feel that
they are engaged with the Project. The actual role of the traditional leadership in the management
of the project should be assessed on a village by village basis. Where the institution of traditional
leadership is robust and intact, greater management license should be given to the traditional
leader. In villages where the institution is weak, the traditional leader may play an advisory role in
guiding and supporting the process of project implementation rather than a controlling role.
*     Both CEP and ARP I seem to indicate that small, local working groups can be an effective means
of management. These working groups should be created, under the leadership  (where
appropriate) or guidance of the councils and traditional leaders, to manage the day-to-day business
of an activity. Ideally the group would be established at the level of the actual activity, often the
subvillage or aldeia, and be responsible for procurement, maintaining records and reporting.
*     It is suggested that a team be formed to decide on the exact composition of the project menus.
These menus must be broad enough to give real choice in each location, but narrow enough to
ensure easy processing.
*     Emphasis of training should be on step-by-step procedures supported by a user-friendly project
manual.
- 129-



*      The grants should be provided through the District Financial Officers to the Treasurer of the
Village Councils (Conselho do Suco). The Village Councils would then be responsible for the
allocation of the funds to the end recipients (such as particular farmers groups or traditional
leaders chosen by the community).
No matter how simple the system, there will be a need to encourage participation and properly explain the
principle of the program to the conununities as a whole. The experience of CEP has shown that finding and
mobilizing good facilitators is not an easy task and cannot be done quickly. It is for this reason that a
cautious approach has been taken in introducing Component I to two sucos per district initially with the
idea of expanding after the benefit of experience.
Box 13.1 Demand for Agriculture Services under the CEP and SEP Projects
Though data from the Community Empowerment Project (CEP) and the Small Enterprises Project (SEP) are still
being collected and reviewed, and initial look at the demand for village grants (CEP) and credit (SEP) provide
some interesting insights into how communities view their needs and how the projects seek to provide support.
The two projects differ substantially in their objectives. CEP is primarily directed at community development in
rural areas, targeting communities and groups of impoverished people. It tries to increase mutual support within
the community by fostering participation and empowerment. This means that the communities are expected to
support the village grants provided by CEP through provision of materials and/or labor, so that the actual value of
the projects can be far greater than the amount of aid provided.
SEP is primarily a credit program which provides individual entrepreneurs with easy access to credit facilities. It
aims to bridge the gap left by the destruction of the banking system. SEP sub-projects are economically viable
businesses which should be able to repay their loans within the time scale of the project.
In CEP there are many infrastructure sub-projects, in particular related to the building or rehabilitation of water
supplies, roads and bridges. Almost 40 percent of CEP funds have been used in this category but none of the CEP
groups have borrowed funds to buy vehicles. In SEP there have been no loans made for infrastructure provision,
but over 60 % of the funds have been used to finance transportation sub-projects, with people taking out substantial
loans to buy buses, minibuses, taxis and related services such as the opening of garages and mechanical
workshops.
In the agriculture sector the CEP project has supported sub-projects such as the purchase of simple machinery for
groups who wish to process coffee, maize or rice, and some small scale irrigation. In SEP agribusiness has
included support to the trade of coffee and larger processing facilities, and some livestock.
It is interesting to note that both projects have remarkably similar breakdowns in how the money is being allocated.
For example, both have some 13 % of their assistance channeled to activities related to agriculture and just under
20 percent to small business development (table 13.1).
Table 13.1 Distribution of CEP grants (700 cases) and SEP credits (205 cases) in East Timor
CEP ($US' 000)    As %   SEP (SUS'000)    As %
Agriculture                      294 1          3           382          13
Infrastructure and vehicles      858 3          9         1,849          64
Small businesses                 440 2          0           528          18
Social                           193            9            -           0.
Other*                           426 1          9           144           5
TOTALS                2,211          100.0       2,904        100.0%
- 130 -



Additional
Annex 14
Summary Technical Evaluation of Irrigation Schemes
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Under ARP I, a feasibility study of 22 light- to medium-damaged irrigation schemes was carried out to
determine their potential for rehabilitation. Potential candidate schemes were selected based on the
following criteria:
*   An economic rate of return higher than 10 percent;
*   Schemes that benefit the greatest number of poor farmers;
* Schemes with minimum impact on the environment;
*   Schemes with communities willing to take responsibility for operation and maintenance;
*   Schemes located outside protected areas.
Assessment of the schemes proposed for rehabilitation under ARP II against economic criteria is
summarized on Annex 4. Assessment of the schemes against environmental and social criteria is outlined
on Annex 12.
In addition to the basic criteria above, all schemes were subjected to a technical feasibility analysis,
which considered:
*   Irrigated area: priority was given to schemes with the larger irrigated and potential extension areas.
*   Water resources: priority was given to schemes which were connected to other schemes, and with
water availability passing the 1 in 3 year low flow criteria.
*   System condition: priority was given to schemes with headworks/intakes, control structures and canal
structures in poor or damaged condition and in need of urgent rehabilitation.
*   Water distribution: priority was given to simple schemes and schemes with previous investments in
intake structures and distribution systems (headworks/canals).
*   Access roads: priority was given to schemes with reasonably functioning access roads (schemes with
headworks further than 1 0 km from the nearest passable road were excluded).
*   Data availability: priority was given to schemes for which existing data such as maps (1:25,000
and/or 1:5,000 scale) and technical designs or agriculture data was available.
*   Fluvio-Geomorphology/Sedimentation: priority was given to schemes with relatively stable
fluvio-geomorphological conditions, and suitably selected locations for the intakes/weirs considering
the natural high sediment loads and shifting river beds. This helps ensure minimum operation and
maintenance due to excessive sedimentation.
*   Others: priority was given to schemes which needed urgent preventive maintenance and/or
rehabilitation to prevent further damage, and those which had been identified by East Timorese
authorities as priorities for special attention.
- 131 -



A detailed description of the criteria and the rating given to each criteria is presented in Table 14.1. Based
on the weight given to the individual criteria and the scores accrued, each scheme was ranked according to
the overall rating. This is presented in Table 14.2. Schemes that require substantial renovation on
structures, especially headworks, are designated in the tables as renovated schemes. Schemes with intact
structures are designated as rehabilitated schemes. A detailed explanation of the methodology used in
allocating scores for the criteria and the ranking of schemes can be seen in the 'Feasibility And
Engineering Study In Respect Of Rehabilitation Of Identified Irrigation Schemes In East Timor' by SNC
Lavalin which can be found in the Project files (see Annex 8).
Table 14.1 Criteria Used in the Ranking of the Technical Aspects of the Irrigation Schemes
o. DATA TO BE                   Category A: REHABILITATION                                Category B : RENOVATED SCHEMES
MARKED                       CRITERIA                     SCORING                           CRITERIA                    SCORING
IRRIGATED
I  AREA                Give priority to schemes with large rotal area:           a). As category A, but consider         Existing area:
areas as unit costs will be lower,
and                               < 100 ha          I        existing                              100 ha           I
investment more effective.        100 - 200 ha      2                                            100 - 200 ha       2
Area considered is total area, inclu-  01 - 400 ha  3                                             01 - 400 ha       3
ding any possible extensions. (a+b)  01 - 1000 ha   4                                             01 - 1000 ha      4
1000 ha         5                                              1000 ha          5
Some renovated schemes have small  Extension area
b). or
no existing area, but potential deve  10 ha            0
lopment area which should be given   10- 200 ha        I
high priority. Additional mark to be
allocated for extension area, ifno   01 - 400 ha       2
water short.                         01 -1000 ha       3
>1000 ha         4
High priority for schemes which
2  WATER           a). also supply                       uuplesi:                                                        Suplesi:
RESOURCES           to other scheme (excess water)    Yes                I   a). As category A                         es               I
No                0                                             o                 0
No data           0                                             o data            0
Existing schemes which have water Sufficient Water           Cropping intensity figures are a poor Suffcient
b). shortage                                                 b). guide to potential, as there are many   Water:
should be excluded from the                                  existing constraints. The answer to
rehabilitation                     Sufficient       3        question " Is there sufficient water  Sufficient       3
Programme                          Medium           2        to fully develop the scheme ?" should   Medium         2
This can be ferified from the total    Low          I        be considerd. Schemes definetely     Low               I
cropping intensity ( <100%                                   as being watershortshould not be con
intensity =                        Insufficient    NCF       sidered further. Cropping data should  Insufficient    NCF*
NF   be compared, before waking a final
> 6 months water shortage)                                   Mak
Marks should not be given for the                              arking
de-
gres of water shortage based on
crop
ping intensity, as this would tend to
cancel out marks for cropping
intensity                        __.
Give priority to schemes in poor
3  SYSTEM              con -                             No Data  :         I       The condition of the system should    eadworks:
CONDITION           dition:                           Condition:                 not be used for ranking, because most I weir           4
a.  Weir / Intake Structures           Bad              2        schemes will] need completed new    I free intake      3
Average          I       structures. The type of scheme should   I weir         2
Good             0       be considered instead. Priority should   I free intake  I
be given to schemes with a single     any small
____________   -___________________________________    None             0        headwork                            intakes            0
- 132 -



No.   DATA TO BE                         Catenory A: REHABILITATION                                         Category B: RENOVATED SCHEMES
MARKED                          CRITERIA                       SCORING                               CRITERIA                       SCORING
b.  Canals                               Bad                        2
Aerage                    I
Good                      0
c.  Main Structures                      None                       2
Bad                       2
Average                   I
Good                      0     _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _     _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Give priority to'Simple"schemes
4  WATER                   which                                Category:                                                            Categosy:
Give priority to schemes which
ISTRIBUTION           can be improved to Technical / Semi   echnical                  0     already                                 / ST / S               2
Technical where appropriate.          emi Technical             I    have had some investment such as    No data                     I
imple                    2    a headworks.
_ ___________      ___________________________           _ No   data                  I
5   ACCESS ROAD            Give priority to schemes with good ac- Distance to headworks:         As for Category A.                  Distance to headworks:
ces.Schemes which have headworks           0  Km                2                                               0  Km                2
further than 10 Km from the nearest 4   .1 - 3.0  Km            I                                          .1 - 3.0  KKm             I
wheel drive road should not be consi   .1 - 10.0 Km             0                                          .1 -10.0 Km             0
dered further.                        >  10.0 Km              NCF                                          >  10.0 Km              NCF
No data                   I                                         No data                    I
6      MAP AND             Give priority to schemes which have   Vaps/Designs:                   As for Category A.                  Maps/Designs:
DESIGNS            maps (1:10,000 or 1:5,000 scale)      chemes map+ design        2                                          chemes map+design         2
and design, but not yet constructed.   Dnly map or design       I                                         Only map or design         I
a4o map or design         ,0                                        No map or design           0
Give priority to schcmes with good
7     GEOLOGY/             and
SEDIMENTATIO
;S            stable geologic formation for location Medium                    2    As for Category A.                   Medium                     2
of intake / weir                     Bad                        I                                         Bad                        I
Low priority for schemes that have
pos-                                 Heavy                      0                                         Heavy                      0
sibility for sediment transport flown to
the canal
8       OTHERS             High priority to schemes particularly   eco,mendarion:                As for Category A                   Recomsendarion:
singled out by arganisation / CNRT for Yes                      4                                         Yes                        4
special treatment.                   Medium                     2                                         Medium                     2
Existing schemes that urgently need   None                      0                                         None                       0
rehabilitation to prevent further
damage
is prioritize
Not Considered Further is given to                            NCF   As for Category A                                              NCF
sche
me had been constructed under
UNTAET
during site visit period (Dec. - Jan.
2001)
(Note: NCF   not continued further)
- 133 -



-         -     -  -  -   - o-   -                             o               oo
.  .40     . 0  . 0  .  .       Z .  .      .       -  -4 - 0  -4 -       - 0  0  -
-0-       0-0------ --0000-
_ 4                0404000            0040  0-            -    0- -0.   . .
-   -  -  -.   0 -01-04-0- -    r- ---1  - 0-40044 ~  -                           04040404
S  E   e    ~rn  040404040404040404            04" S              g -040 -        A
ItO
Cu      _      4444400000                             .0_040404040404                    04 t 04 oov    -o  o   r o  
W~~~ _  ___
||z8}f]@3vni52    -  -a
4v i            !< 040404         X  lR        i;EEJ03 4             3'    
; c    u                            ooc  =vocc  -tN --04-                                ev;



Additional
Annex 15
Project Performance Indicators
EAST TIMOR: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Table 15.1 Project Impact Indicators Performance Monitoring Table
Key Project Impact Indicators    Mode of            At Mid-Term                At End of Project
Verification
Average rice yields increased from    Household survey   Average rice yield    Average rice yield increased
1.5 MT/ha. to 3.0 MT/ha. in 5 years  2001           maintained at 1.5 MT/ha.   from 1.5 MT/ha. to 1.8
in irrigated areas rehabilitated by  Field surveys  in the project areas.      MT/ha. in the project areas.
the project.
Production of other food crops like   Household survey  Production of maize,   Production of maize, cassava,
maize, cassava, beans at 120     2001               cassava and beans increased  and beans increased to 120
percent of pre-conflict (1999) levels  Field surveys  to 100 percent of pre-   percent of pre-conflict levels
in the project areas.                               conflict levels in the project  in the project areas.
areas.
About 20 percent reduction of the    Household survey                          About 20 percent reduction of
number of farm households that   2001                                          the number of farm
have critically low food reserves in   Household survey                        households with critically
the project areas (based on pre-  2003                                         low food reserves in project
conflict levels).                                                              areas.
- 135 -



Table 15.2 Project Output Indicators Performance Monitoring Table
Key Project Output Indicators   Mode of Verification            At Mid-Term                       At End of Project
14-30 upland and coastal pilot    Project progress      At least 14 pilot villages assisted by   About 30 villages assisted by the
villages assisted by the project.  reports              the project.                       project, if initial 14 pilots villages are
judged successful at mid-term.
About 50 percent of proposals for  Project progress     About 20 percent of proposals for    About 50 percent of proposals for sub-
sub-projects submitted by pilot   report                sub-projects submitted by pilot    projects submitted by pilot
communities for village grants                          communities for village grants     communities for village grants
financing are from women's groups.                      financing are from women's groups.  financing are from women's groups.
3,530  ha.  of  irrigated  areas  Irrigation            About 1,600 ha. of irrigated areas  Additional 830 ha. of larger irrigation
rehabilitated: 1,430 ha. of larger  rehabilitation      rehabilitated, including 600 ha. of  schemes and 1,100 ha. of community-
irrigation schemes and 2,100 ha. of  monitoring reports    larger irrigation schemes and 1,000    based schemes are rehabilitated.
community-based schemes.          Project progress      ha. of community-based irrigation
reports               schemes.
11 Water Users Associations       Project progress      7 Water Users Associations         Additional 4 Water Users Associations
established in rehabilitated irrigated   reports        established and functional in project  established and functional in project
areas.                                                  areas.                             areas.
100 kilometers of farm-to-market  Road rehabilitation   50 km. of farm-to-market roads are   100 km. of farm-to-market roads are
roads rehabilitated.              monitoring reports    rehabilitated.                     rehabilitated.
Project progress
report
Hera Fishing Port rehabilitated.  Port rehabilitation   Hera Fishing Port rehabilitation
(ADB-managed project)             report                completed.
Progress report
(ADB)
About 80 percent of adult cattle,  Vaccination          About 80 percent of adult cattle,  About 80 percent The establishment of
buffaloes,  and  pigs  vaccinated  campaign reports     buffaloes, and pigs are vaccinated    the PASCs will make it easier for
annually.                         Project progress      annually.                          farmers to have access to farm inputs
reports                                                  and support services. of adult cattle,
buffaloes, and pigs are vaccinated
annually.
200 Village Livestock Workers     Training evaluation    About 50 Village Livestock        Additional 150 Village Livestock
trained                           report                Workers trained and working        Workers trained and working actively
Project progress     actively in the villages.          in the villages.
reports
3 existing PASCs established under   PASC reports       3 PASCs established under ARP I    2 new PASCs established, if existing
ARP I fully operational and 2-3 new   Project progress  are fully operational as business  3 PASCs under ARP I are fully
PASCs established.                reports               enterprises.                       operational as business enterprises at
mid-term.
4 Policy studies related to       Policy Option Notes    3 Policy Option Notes  on Food  I additional Rural Development Policy
agriculture and rural development  Project progress     Security/Self-sufficiency, Forestry,  study completed and discussed with
carried out and results discussed  reports              and Fisheries are completed and  stakeholders.
with key stakeholders.                                   discussed with stakeholders.
At least 30 DAA staff and NGO      Training evaluation    At least 15 DAA staff and NGO    At least 30 DAA staff and NGO
partners trained on project        reports              partners trained on relevant topics.    partners trained on relevant topics.
management, PRA techniques, and   Project progress
other topics.                      reports
Overall, about 30 percent of the  Training reports      About 10 percent of the trained    About 30 percent of the total trained
trained farmers and other         Project progress      farmers and other beneficiaries are    farmers and other beneficiaries are
beneficiaries are women.           reports              women.                             women.
- 136-



_________________________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                     RED  31525~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD3152
lSaLnaSahm [,a  ' a        135    . OCFAII                      235n990                                    125 3uy                                       2600'                                   126030'                                     127'00'
SSIAWTS(                           -.   ?               T                                                                A?MouOo  OIiqasla                                                Strait     of    W et,ar
.U''                             PaSP UA    -.-2
Ator Island~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Llat
I                -                                               Ahec *sland IAnO NtESI
TNDNSIA   0ffin MO<r . 7f /     ; J rZ,  -(INL)ONESIA)  \3rg                                                                                                                                                                                 d            1n'
EAST  TIM OR   A    5a-o Sea             '",.na                                                                                                                                        -   -                         L                      '4            T         -
18 30'  'ai                                                                    MlanoCtuto                                                                           --      .      \   LAu            L sa 3    3    3
AUSTRALIA  e                 2tTho~~~~~~~~~  ~~           -                    -         -                 I~~f                                                           1      '-<
A U S T R A L I A                                                                                  'BLtquirA; --VCA - ,+ 6 > E ? t=i *sq- MA RTTO O
SOev us             Sec ,o A,  aAaa f                                                  .        a,,t                                                                           VIQE,E,,a
/   i    r g                                1 2H=liluAiapapa ; :.nI,bO   Ni                                          ENTRALfa                         ;c'-  ~
\ - ;  .(- s,  >~  ' Ti  orS e ca
S,          a  vXeemni u         C   >>                        s_.Kfau                     tG
9-0o'                                                            A                                                                                      R                                               ------- .00'-
t~~ ~~~~~~~Anea                                                   1    xRso     2'0                                      2'9                                         2 0    
AINARO  ,                                                                                                         \ ;t! tEL
ct50055' a'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oY20
V     a   opasae&VALIMA          '
I,                 -~~~~~~~T
a'4             S -l
/I j..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
----    -                  sko                                            D3'D50                                                                                  M5 
24'30'                               5      ,00'                                      2-0                                        2-0'12-0
EAST TIMOR
0  5  10  5 25 2  30 KILMETERSSECOND AGRICULTURAL
0  5  _           1   2025  0 KLOMTER                                                                     REHABILITATION  PROJECT
O       3       130     13      20 MILES                                                     -    "-MAIN ROADS                                       ELEVATIONS.
t       AIRPORTS                                           2000 METERS AND ABOVE
0      SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES                        13500-DOTS METERS                                                 s'
This naP -,a prod-cd by ph. Map D-sge UaIoI~fTh.W,o,ldRaeINTONLCAIA
Tho             d-aaV,caa  Ie,-e,a  -es -cloyoI,s, ,eacahcee                                                                                                  10ATONL0AITL-1SI5050METERS
-e;h,sn,pda --aply,  se' pa,I aP Th Ward Scat G-oc, -cap                                             0--     STRICT BOUNDARIES                                5DD 1 000 METERS
oe-Plo-ca-hsccl-odaen.'    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                T 550 METERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARtES



