                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 32473




                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (TF-50151)

                                        ON A

                                  GRANT FROM THE

                            TRUST FUND FOR TIMOR LESTE

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                       DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE

                                        FOR A

                 SECOND AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                    JUNE 27, 2005




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Timor-Leste Country Office
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective March 2005)

                                        Currency Unit = US$
                                       Local Currency = US$
                                               US$ 1 = EUR 0.77
                                               EUR 1 = US$ 1.30

                                             FISCAL YEAR
                                             July 1  June 30

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ARP     Agriculture Rehabilitation Project            MAFF            Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
CFET    Consolidated Fund for East Timor              MOF             Ministry of Finance
CGIAR   Consultative Group for International          MT              Metric Ton
        Agricultural Research                         N.B.F           Non-Bank Financed
CSF     Classical Swine Fever                         ND              Newcastle Disease
DAA     Division of Agricultural Affairs              NCB             National Competitive Bidding
DLO     District Livestock Officers                   NGO             Non Governmental Organization
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                       NPV             Net Present Value
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization             NRM             Natural Resource Management
FMR     Financial Management Report                   O&M             Operation and Maintenance
FRR     Financial Rate of Return                      PASC            Pilot Agricultural Service Center
GTZ     German Technical Cooperation                  PMU             Project Management Unit
ha      hectare                                       PSR             Project Status Report
HS      Hemorrhagic Septicemia                        QAG             Quality Assurance Group
ICB     International Competitive Bidding             UNTAET          United Nations Transition
IDA     International Development Association                         Administration for East Timor
km      Kilometer                                     VLW             Village Livestock Worker
ICR     Implementation Completion Report              WUA             Water User Association
LTMD    Light-to-Medium Damaged (irrigation
        scheme)




                                      Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPCO
                                    Country Director     Xian Zhu, EACNF
                                      Sector Director    Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
                   Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Oliver Braedt, EASRD

                                          TIMOR-LESTE
                             Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                      1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              12
   6. Sustainability                                                                  13
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   14
   8. Lessons Learned                                                                 15
   9. Partner Comments                                                                17
   10. Additional Information                                                         17
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               18
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               19
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               21
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               23
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               25
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  26
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              27
   Annex 8. Summary of Lessons Learned from ARP II - ICR prepared by Implementing     29
              Agency



IBRD MAP # 31525R

Project ID: P073911                                                  Project Name: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project
Team Leader: Oliver Braedt                                           TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project                L/C/TF Number: TF-50151
   Country/Department: TIMOR-LESTE                                                        Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (34%); Agricultural
                            extension and research (33%); Central government administration
                            (11%); Other social services (11%); Roads and highways (11%)
                  Theme: Nutrition and food security (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Rural policies and institutions (P); Water resource management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/07/2001                                     Effective: 12/11/2001                12/11/2001
     Appraisal: 07/11/2001                                         MTR: 10/14/2002                  02/01/2003
      Approval: 09/29/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/15/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          EAST TIMOR/UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN
                                           EAST TIMOR
                      Other Partners:      N/A

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Xian Zhu                                       Klaus Rohland
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Mark D. Wilson
Team Leader at ICR:             Oliver Braedt                                  Sofia U. Bettencourt
ICR Primary Author:             Oliver Braedt; Josef Ernstberger


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project aimed to improve the food security of rural families and to increase agricultural production in
selected areas of Timor-Leste.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original Development Objective remained unchanged throughout the project's implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had the following components:

Component 1. Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resource Management (appraisal
estimates US$0.89 million). The activities under this component were:

·        The selection of 14 pilot villages in seven Districts and the establishment of facilitation teams;
·        Applied training for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) staff, NGO
         partners, and both female and male farmers;
·        The facilitation of community proposals;
·        The provision of community grants and their implementation by farmers; and
·        Monitoring and evaluation of the progress of village activities.

Component 2. Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation (appraisal estimates US$2.71 million). The
activities under this component included:

·        The rehabilitation of 2,100 hectares of community-based irrigation schemes;
·        The rehabilitation of seven irrigation schemes with light- to medium-damage;
·        The feasibility study for three irrigation schemes with major damage;
·        The rehabilitation of 100 km of farm-to-market access roads;
·        The establishment of 11 Water User Associations (WUAs) in irrigated areas rehabilitated by the
         project; and
·        The provision of irrigation training to MAFF staff and District Irrigation Officers.

Component 3. Services to Farmers (appraisal estimates US$3.10 million). There were three
sub-components with the following activities:

         Sub-Component 3.1. Information to Farmers.
·        The development of information programs addressing the specific needs of farmers; and
·        The establishment of a small Liaison Secretariat to link up with international centers of the
         Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR).




                                                       - 2 -

         Sub-Component 3.2. Sustainable Animal Health Services.
·        The continuation of the National Vaccination Program initiated under the First Agriculture
         Rehabilitation Project (ARP I) for cattle, buffaloes and pigs, and the distribution of chicken
         vaccines; and
·        The establishment of a system of 200 private Village Livestock Workers (VLWs).

         Sub-Component 3.3. Pilot Agriculture Service Centers.
·        The consolidation and operationalizing of three Pilot Agriculture Service Centers (PASCs)
          established under ARP I; and
·        The establishment of two to three additional PASCs in other locations if the first three PASCs were
         to be evaluated as fully functional at the mid-term review of the project.

Component 4. Program Management (appraisal estimates US$2.21 million). There were two
sub-components with the following activities:

         Sub-Component 4.1. Policy and Strategy Development. Four policy studies werecarried out to
         produce:
·        A policy options paper on food security, self sufficiency and agriculture growth;
·        A policy options paper on rural development;
·        A revised forestry strategy; and
·        A coastal fisheries baseline study.

         Sub-Component 4.2. Project Management and Capacity Building. Activities included the
         provision of:
·        Operational support for the District Agricultural Offices;
·        Training, workshops and study tours;
·        Support for a core project management team; and
·        Monitoring and evaluation and general Project Management Unit (PMU) operations.

Note: The above project costs by component include US$1.2 million physical and price contingencies.



3.4 Revised Components:

The project components remained the same throughout the project's implementation time. The final
allocations for each component were adjusted in response to the experiences gained from the pilot activities
carried out in component 1 and sub-component 3.3.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Quality at Entry of the project is rated as moderately satisfactory.                       This rating takes into
consideration the particularly difficult preparation circumstances in a post-conflict area with very weak
institutional structures in place, and is based on the following:

l The project's development objectives were in line with the country's priorities.


l Several components were extensions of components satisfactorily implemented in ARP I, consolidating
    the impact and contributing towards reaching sustainability (e.g., sub-component 3.2). For component
    1 and sub-component 3.3, the option of starting them as pilots with the option of later scaling-up was



                                                         - 3 -

    the right choice to minimize risks. Reflecting the nature of the project moving from emergency
    reconstruction towards sustainable development, due emphasis was given during project preparation to
    creating a conducive policy and legislative environment. At the same time, capacity building was
    emphasized during implementation, but would have deserved to be mentioned in more detail throughout
    the preparatory documentation.

Three aspects would have merited more attention during preparation:

l With an originally envisaged implementation period of two years, the project design would have
    merited a longer time-frame for implementation. In fact, the project rationale and the demand in the
    country would have called more for a development-oriented project design with a strong institution
    building component.

l The definition of `project areas' in relation to indicators would have benefited from a clearer
    demarcation, since different components addressed different project areas, ranging from a nation-wide
    vaccination or communication campaign to a group of 29 villages dispersed over various districts
    under component 1 activities.

l The outcome and output targets defined for the project and the expectations created were optimistic
    given the post-conflict status of the country, the time-frame and the resources available. For example,
    restoring some irrigation infrastructure and moving from a low input production system, using zero
    fertilizer, to a double cropping system with modern varieties and intensive fertilizer application was
    unrealistic in the absence of any form of extension service and over the time frame proposed. An
    increase of upland crop production to 120% of the pre-conflict levels was equally ambitious.

In summary: (a) the focus of some of the activities could have been different or could have been changed
during project implementation; (b) the objectives and indicators used were too optimistic and not feasible
given the proposed structure of the project; and (c) the targets set by the project were not in accordance
with existing implementation capacity. Taking the above into consideration, the project design could have
focused more on institution building and human capacity building.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project was the second phase in a program of three projects aiming at improving food security,
increasing agricultural production and promoting rural growth, and is rated as being moderately
satisfactory.

The project's development objective was relevant and consistent with the government's priorities and
agreed strategies for development of the rural sector. It called for: (a) ensuring food security through
improvements in the production of staple crops; (b) increasing production and diversification of niche crops
and livestock products to provide sources of cash income; (c) improving farming systems in upland areas to
increase livelihood resilience and reduce environmental degradation; and (d) shifting from emergency
rehabilitation to longer-term planning of promoting agricultural productivity and greater food security. The
development objective remained valid throughout the project implementation period, but was only partly
achieved.

The project met most of its output targets and has successfully increased paddy rice production by some



                                                     - 4 -

3,000 tons per year. The reconstruction and rehabilitation of essential infrastructure under the project led
the way for a continued increase in production. The incremental food production under the project provides
a contribution to food security not only for the 7,000 families owning the paddy fields. Most of these
families support a large number of relatives living in the upland areas through a traditional system of social
obligations. The expectation at appraisal, however, that double cropping in most of the irrigated areas
would be combined with the use of fertilizer and high-yielding varieties by the end of the project could not
be achieved. Single cropping of rice took place in almost all the fields (the original target was a double
crop on all fields and a triple crop with some selected farmers).

Livestock is of crucial importance in Timorese rural society as a source of cash income, a savings account,
or an asset to be exchanged in social affairs (e.g., marriage, funerals).           Some 80 percent of all
rural-households own livestock. By setting up a functioning livestock vaccination service built on a
country-wide network of trained VLWs in the entire country, the project has made a remarkable
contribution to generate income, food security and resilience for the farming population. No large outbreak
of any of the major infectious livestock diseases has been reported since the program was put in place.
This model of a private-public partnership using trained farmers from the villages, paid per animal
vaccinated, could well be transferred to other places.

On the institutional side, the project has significantly contributed to the building of a new and functioning
MAFF emerging from its interim antecedent ­ the Division of Agricultural Affairs (DAA) under the UN
Transition Administration for East Timor (UNTAET). The project contributed to developing the capacity
of the Timorese staff in MAFF through formal and informal training, providing policy and technical advice
and deploying a number of foreign technical advisors supporting all major line departments. At the same
time, by providing a large proportion of the investment budget for MAFF, the project served as a
large-scale "learning by doing" training and capacity-building program. Clear expressions of this capacity
created include: (a) a full ownership taken over time in the decisions about policy development, priority
setting, budgeting and spending; (b) a reduction of the role of foreign advisors to a purely advisory function
from the execution of management functions which existed earlier in the project, including the replacement
of advisors; (c) the internalizing of the ARP III project management into the MAFF; and (d) a critical
evaluation of its own performance and achievements under the ARP II. While this capacity building is a
continuing process, the project provided the foundation for a transition from emergency rehabilitation to
longer-term planning of the development of agricultural production towards greater food security. A
short-coming is that this capacity development remained at the central level with little impact at the district
level.

Factors contributing to not receiving a full satisfactory rating are that component 1 addressed long-term
food security but focused to a large extent on the plantation of trees and the construction of some
fishponds. A direct impact on the production of upland crops, such as maize, cassava and beans which are
staple crops in Timor-Leste, is not obvious. The execution of component 1 was dominated by the Forestry
and Fisheries Department of MAFF with little participation by other departments and this prevented the
component from taking a broader approach towards improving livelihood systems in the upland areas and
the envisaged project objective to improve food security of rural families.

Under component 2, the establishment of ten WUAs provides a basis for a future self-sustained irrigation
system financed and maintained by the beneficiaries. These WUAs are expected to form an important
service delivery mechanism once operational. However, all of them are still in the very early stage of
development requiring continued and significant outside support. The third phase of the program (ARP III),
currently under implementation, continues to support WUAs for them to become fully functional.




                                                      - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resource Management

The output of this pilot component is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. The component aimed to pilot a
participatory development and natural resources management approach to increase the resilience of poor
farming communities to external shocks (e.g., economic, market, climatic).            The project tested this
approach in 30 villages (sucos) out of the total of 443 villages in Timor-Leste, initiating activities in 14
pilot villages in seven districts. In 2004, 16 expansion villages were added in the same districts. The focus
of assistance was to poor communities in upland areas and in upland/coastal areas, where the environment
is more fragile and the level of dependency on agriculture for livelihoods is highest.

The project provided village grants to 215 small farmer groups based on "activity proposals" that they
prepared with assistance from trained facilitators. At the end of the project, the total amount invested in
village grants was US$314,552 with an average grant per village of US$10,846. About 7,514 villagers (27
percent female members) benefited directly from the small grants provided by the project. About 64
percent of the villages' population was represented in participating small groups and 99 percent of all the
aldeas (sub-villages) participated in the project, and hence the coverage was very high. The focus on the
aldea level ensured that most villagers would participate in the project and the establishment of small
groups allowed these villagers to build their capacity to plan and implement their activities. Facilitation,
planning, proposal preparation and activity implementation were much better in the 16 expansion villages,
indicating an improvement in the capacity of MAFF teams and facilitators.

The choice of longer-term activities (in natural resource management - NRM) compared to the shorter-term
production of crops and livestock in pilot villages affected the attainment of the project objective of
improving food security and increasing food production by rural communities. The menu of options
included food crops and vegetables, and attempts were made to include more of these activities in the later
stage. An attempt at integration of food crops and livestock in the NRM component failed, and the MAFF
teams consisted mainly of staff with forestry and fisheries background and responsibility which may have
biased activities more towards NRM than to agriculture. Many items on the menu (which was a positive
list) were never chosen despite the need felt by the rural communities (e.g., marketing, storage, or simple
food processing activities). The implementation of the component was also affected by an ambitious
design, making it difficult for the implementers as well as the recipient rural communities to understand
fully the options, procedures and obligations involved.

One main output of the project is the large number of villagers trained on technical and management topics
to build the capacity of village implementation teams and small group members. About 3,063 small group
members (31 percent women) participated in various training topics of their choice and related to
implementation of their proposed activities. Some training did not provide sufficient information and has
not been relevant to group activities. Many villagers indicated that this was the only face-to-face training
that villagers had ever received related to farming and most were satisfied with the training because it
provided them with first-hand experience on how to apply technology. The empowerment of men and
women farmers resulting from this participatory approach and demand-driven training was significant. It
also provided an opportunity for MAFF staff to become engaged with communities and to learn how to
work with farmer clientele.

However, the component's contribution to the development objective of improved food security can only be
seen as part of a long-term and complex effort. The value as a learning exercise remains somewhat limited
because of the poor monitoring and evaluation of village activities to draw lessons.


                                                     - 6 -

Component 2. Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation

The output of this component is rated as having been moderately satisfactory. The aim of this component
was to increase agricultural production and stimulate off-farm employment in project areas. It included:
(a) the rehabilitation and maintenance of 2,100 ha of community-based irrigation schemes; (b) the
rehabilitation of 100 km of farm-to-market access roads by communities; (c) the rehabilitation of 1,400 ha
of light-to-medium damaged (LTMD) irrigation schemes; (d) feasibility studies for three major damaged
irrigation schemes; (e) the establishment of 10 WUAs; and (f) training on irrigation management.

A total of 3,908 ha in 46 community-based schemes (186 percent of the appraisal target) and 1,000 ha in
10 LTMD schemes (70 percent of the appraisal target) have been rehabilitated. During project
implementation, relatively higher priority was given to community-based irrigation schemes providing less
technical complexity and better prospects in terms of sustainability compared to the generally more
complex LTMD. Only limited information is available regarding reliable rice yield data in the improved
schemes. Realistic estimates confirmed by field interviews conducted by the ICR team assume a yield
increase of about 1 ton per ha for the LTMD schemes and about 0.5 tons per ha in the community-based
scheme, resulting in an overall incremental production of some 3,000 tons per year. Against appraisal
expectations, limited double cropping is currently practiced and only a few farmers use purchased inputs
such as fertilizer, insecticides and seeds of improved varieties. Consequently, total incremental production
remains below appraisal expectations. The ICR team recognized that there are many issues concerning land
ownership and confusion about the size of land holdings of individual farmers which affected the
implementation on this component and a clear monitoring of its output. It was also reported that the
wide-spread practice of farmers grazing their animals during the dry season on the fallow paddy land
prevents farmers from double cropping. The reported social obligation to share the harvest with relatives in
the upland areas having no access to paddy land might also be a reason preventing farmers from further
intensification using cash to purchase inputs, when the incremental production has to be shared with others.

The rehabilitated total length of 123 km of farm-to-market roads in 25 locations (123 percent of the
appraisal target) has helped farmers to access markets on a year-round basis. No vehicle counts or
passenger counts have been conducted along these roads, and their impact on rural development is mixed.
A number of roads are reported to be well appreciated by the local beneficiaries. At least one road visited
by the ICR team was not usable by vehicle and was obviously not in use at all. The concept of taking over
responsibility for routine maintenance by the beneficiaries is not yet established.

Under the project, four feasibility studies have prepared for the rehabilitation of medium-size irrigation
schemes. Only one scheme (Caraulun of 650 ha) was recommended for implementation under ARP III.
The expected returns have been estimated on a somewhat more conservative basis as compared to the
schemes implemented under ARP II. However, even the `conservative' scenario with an IRR of 11 percent
assumes a cropping intensity of 170 percent (with yields in the wet season of 3.5 tons and in the dry season
of 2.5 tons per ha).      In the absence of sufficient investment in other services, these `conservative'
assumptions seem highly optimistic.

The project has established 10 (out of the appraisal target of 11) community-based WUAs to manage the
use and maintenance of the project schemes. WUA members have been chosen by the water users of each
irrigation scheme as representatives on a management committee. However, the WUAs are still weak and
need considerable support to develop the necessary community organizing skills as the basis for the
development of functional operation and maintenance (O&M) systems. O&M costs are estimated at
US$20-25 per ha per year. Collection of financial contributions from water users is difficult, and has


                                                     - 7 -

started at a very low level (US$1 per ha) in only one of the schemes. Rice farmers are still accustomed to
the considerable levels of government support for maintenance of irrigation systems that were provided
during Indonesian times, and there is little experience of community-based management of these systems.
The project has not yet succeeded in establishing the concept of self-reliance in the irrigation schemes.

The component was supported by extensive in-country and overseas training provided to MAFF and
District level staff.

Component 3. Services to Farmers

The overall output of this component is rated as having been moderately satisfactory.

Sub-Component 3.1. Information to Farmers.
The output of this is sub-component is rated as having been unsatisfactory. Two activities were carried
out:

(1) Information programming. This activity aimed to develop information programs addressing the specific
needs of farmers (such as market and climatic conditions, timing of vaccination campaigns, and technical
advice). About 46 radio programs and 47 printed papers were produced by MAFF's information team,
with the bulk of printed materials produced since July 2004. Two international communications advisors
supported MAFF in this activity.      Improved capacity, planning and coordination on the part of the
information team contributed to this achievement. There has also been improved outreach through
collaboration and coordination with other institutions, such as NGOs and civil society groups. These
collaborative efforts are continuing under ARP III. Though output targets were achieved, there are
weaknesses in reaching the farmers such as appropriateness of type of media chosen, the messages and
timeliness of delivery. Face-to-face communication or group meetings are reported to be much more
effective. Little feed-back information was collected as to who has been reached and what messages came
across.   For example, the ICR team learned of farmers complaining about the lack of appropriate
information regarding vaccination campaigns. The Impact Assessment Study (MAFF 2004) reports that
only between four and seven percent of the respondents knew about the existence of PASCs in their district.
Linkages to other components were weak.

(2) Establishment of the CGIAR Liaison Secretariat. The activity aimed to tap the pool of international
expertise and knowledge available in the CGIAR system through electronic linkages and the internet (e.g.,
to diagnose new plant or animal diseases or to identify suitable new crop varieties). A computer network
and connectivity was established to link up to international research centers and a few visits to the country
took place, but there was little follow-up by MAFF. There has been a problem in accessing information
given the weak capacity and limitations of English language capability of responsible staff. The impact of
this activity remains very limited.

Sub-Component 3.2. Sustainable Animal Health Services.
The outcome of this sub-component is rated as having been satisfactory. The sub-component aimed to
provide sustainable animal health services to an estimated 567,000 rural people living in rural households
owning farm animals (about 80 percent of the total). The National Vaccination Program in ARP II was a
continuation of the vaccination campaigns started in ARP I. The objective was to immunize livestock
against major infectious diseases such as Haemorrhagic Septicemia (HS) for cattle and buffaloes, and
Classical Swine Fever (CSF) in pigs, and to supply Newcastle Disease (ND) vaccines for the protection of
chickens.




                                                    - 8 -

Two national campaigns, both for HS and CSF, and distribution of ND vaccines were carried out. MAFF
reported that during each campaign some 340,000 pigs and some 190,000 cattle and buffaloes were
vaccinated and about 3 million of ND vaccines were distributed. While some of these numbers appear high
in terms of coverage (93-97 percent of pigs and 78-79 percent of cattle and buffaloes), no disease
outbreaks were reported during this period indicating successful protection of farm animals.

The vaccination campaigns were carried out by a small core of MAFF central staff and District Livestock
Officers (DLOs) supported initially by 130 trained contracted vaccinators, many of whom are now active
VLWs. Challenges in the delivery of highly perishable vaccines through a cold chain system and
monitoring the campaigns were successfully addressed by the Livestock Division staff and DLOs.

Around the vaccination service, a scheme of private VLWs was developed. About 190 VLWs (20 women
and 170 men farmers) and 26 livestock staff from NGOs and development partners were trained in a VLW
six-day basic course in 2003/2004. About 161 VLWs participated in a follow-up six-day refresher course
in 2004.    The 190 active VLWs make up the core of a nation-wide privatized animal health and
management service at the village level to respond to the needs of rural households. The VLW scheme
complements the limited MAFF staff capacity, which would otherwise require a large cadre of government
employees to deliver public animal health services. Additional VLWs are being trained in ARP III to
provide two VLWs for each three villages. The VLWs have formed a National VLW Association with
District chapters. VLW training was provided by a team of trainers/consultants, three of whom became
regular staff in 2004 adding to MAFF's capacity.

The distribution of 28,000 chickens, a minor activity continuing from ARP I, was completed in September
2003 after some procurement problems. Although the cost of US$ 111,740 was high, and the chicken
distribution may not have increased the total chicken population in the districts, MAFF's decision to
complete this activity for social equity considerations is commendable.

Some weaknesses identified include: (a) the lack of productivity information on cattle, buffaloes, and pigs,
with only quantitative reporting of the number of animals vaccinated but no impact of the vaccination
campaigns; and (b) poor monitoring of the impact of three million doses of chicken vaccine distributed.
These problems are being addressed in ARP III.

Sub-Component 3.3. Pilot Agriculture Service Centers (PASCs).
The output of this is pilot activity is rated as unsatisfactory. The sub-component aimed to consolidate and
make operational three PASCs established under ARP I.              The PASCs were intended to become
farmer-owned legal commercial entities providing links to output markets and support to production and
processing, stimulating the commercialization of agricultural production.

Two of the three PASCs established under ARP I were made operational and significant technical
assistance was provided in business development. Of these PASCs, Bobonaro has made some operational
profit (before depreciation) in 2004. The PASC in Viqueque is still making losses, and business is stagnant
because of weak management and very low commodity supply. It is to be expected that the capital and
assets available to the PASCs in Viqueque will diminish over the next 3 - 5 years. The third PASC in Aileu
has done limited business from the start, and has been plagued by management problems and difficult
market conditions. A management decision has been made to close the PASC and hold the funds at MAFF
for future use in market development oriented activity in Aileu. The possibility of establishing two
additional PASCs (in Covalima and Los Palos) was ruled out in January 2004 given the experience with
the three PASCs.




                                                      - 9 -

Component 4. Program Management

Sub-Component 4.1. Policy and Strategy Development.
The output of this sub-component is considered to have been satisfactory. The sub-component aimed to
assist the new government to evaluate key policy options on agriculture, rural development and natural
resource management. Implementation was kept flexible to respond to the emerging needs of the
government given the political and institutional uncertainties of the post-election period. Of the four
original topics proposed for preparation of policy notes, rural development was not pursued. Overall, the
target of preparing four policy notes was achieved by MAFF. The Policy Notes on Food Security (2003),
the Revised Forest Policy and Strategy (2004), and the Coastal Fisheries Baseline Report (2002) were
prepared by MAFF with assistance from foreign experts. An expert was contracted to ascertain the status
of laws regulating the use of pesticides in Timor-Leste.

There was significant achievement in providing information to support the approval of agriculture-related
legislation. Two draft laws and regulations were prepared by MAFF, including a draft Fisheries Law and
Regulations (2004) and draft Quarantine Regulations (2003). Based on the policy work on fisheries, two
government Decree-Laws were signed in 2004: (a) "On General Bases of the Legal Regime for Fisheries
and Aquaculture Management and Regulation" (April 21, 2004); and (b) "General Regulation on Fishing"
(July 28, 2004). A government Decree-Law was passed on December 13, 2003 on "Quarantine and
Sanitary Control on Goods Imported and Exported".

Follow-up work is being done on the following aspects: an Integrated Food Security Policy is planned (with
support from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the German Technical Cooperation (GTZ)
and by MAFF through ARP III), and drafting of Pesticide Legislation.

Sub-Component 4.2. Project Management and Capacity Building.
The output of this sub-component is rated as satisfactory. The sub-component aimed to help build core
skills among MAFF staff, district agriculture officers and their development partners, and oversee the
management of the project.

A significant contribution of the project was achieved in building capacity of MAFF staff, their partners
and beneficiary groups. Considerable capacity was built through training, both local and foreign, including
study tours made by MAFF staff. A total of about 32,000 person-days of training were carried out under
the project on technical and project management topics. Training courses were attended by about 680
MAFF participants, 538 partners (NGOs, VLWs, WUAs), and about 1,700 beneficiaries (farmers, fishers,
villagers). This large number indicated that some participants may have attended more than one training
course. The target of 30 MAFF staff to received training was significantly exceeded. However, the target
of training about 30 percent women overall was not attained; the actual proportion of women trained was
13 percent although the participation of women in training was much higher among beneficiary groups (i.e.,
23 percent in Component 1).

A PMU already established under ARP I continued to operate until January 2004 at which time, under the
direction of the Minister and in consultation with the Bank, all project management and decision-making
was incorporated into the MAFF management system with the advisors focusing on providing advice and
training. The proven capacity within MAFF to manage this project effectively and the devolving role given
to the advisors is a clear expression of the capacity created under the project. Less successful was the
capacity development at the District level.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:



                                                   - 10 -

A recalculation of the economic returns for the irrigation and vaccination investments was carried out at the
end of the project. However, since no systematic collection of data was done during or after project
implementation, the calculation is based on a number of assumptions which have been cross-checked with
field interviews by the ICR team. For other components only a qualitative assessment is made, which is
based on the appraisal assumptions as a reference and the likelihood at which these assumptions would
have been achieved.

The summary conclusion is that the originally envisaged quantifiable economic benefits were too high for
all but the livestock vaccination component. For the irrigation investment, appraisal expectations of double
cropping and intensive use of inputs have not been reached and the overall EIRR is estimated at 6 percent
(PAD estimate 20.6 percent). For the LTMD schemes the ERR is 3 percent (PAD estimate 35 percent) and
for the community-based schemes the EIRR is 11 percent (PAD estimate 26 percent). For the vaccination
program, the ERR would be about 23 percent (compared to a PAD estimate of 28 percent). The
investments in the PASCs show no positive ERR. The project achievements in terms of capacity building
are substantive and it is likely that they exceed the quantifiable benefits by a wide margin; however, they
are difficult to measure.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

A calculation of specific FIRRs for the project is not considered applicable. Due to the absence of any
major bias in the market environment in the country financial and economic values are very close
suggesting that FIRRs would be very close to the EIRRs shown above. The major budget implications for
the government relate to the vaccination program costing about US$150,000. Currently 50 percent of this
cost is covered by the Consolidated Fund for East Timor (CFET) under the MAFF budget and the
remainder is covered under the ARP III. The CFET proportion will gradually increase to 100 percent.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact is considered to have been significant as this project was instrumental
and contributed significantly towards building of a new and functioning MAFF emerging from its interim
antecedent ­ the DAA under the UN Transition Administration for East Timor. The project contributed
towards developing the capacity of the Timorese staff in MAFF through formal and informal training,
providing policy and technical advice, and deploying a number of technical advisors supporting all major
line departments. While this institutional development and capacity building is not easy to manifest, a
number of specific outcomes may highlight these achievements:

l As a result of the project, MAFF has by now increasingly grown out from its dependency on foreign
    assistance in managerial issues. Decisions regarding the necessary areas of foreign assistance are by
    now made exclusively by the ministry in a fully independent and confident way. In fact the ministry
    has replaced a number of foreign experts deemed to be inappropriate for the tasks, moving away from
    using foreign technical assistance for managerial tasks towards truly advisory and consultative
    functions.

l The project has been instrumental in the development of important laws and legislations in the fisheries
    and quarantine sector. Initiated by this process the drafting of pesticide legislation is underway and will
    continue to be supported by ARP III. These laws and legislative arrangements in place are important
    contributions towards Timor Leste's sovereignty as an independent and well functioning state setting
    an environment for private investment.



                                                     - 11 -

l In the course of project implementation MAFF has developed its own budgetary process. Accordingly
    the handling of project funds has been turned from extra-budgetary resources into funds, which are
    treated within the budgetary process in an integrated way. This way a full integration of the project into
    the political and legislative process is assured. This is an important learning example, which could have
    far reaching implications for the way development assistance is provided away from a project concept
    towards a more programmatic assistance strategy fully in line with the government's own programs
    and strategies.

l The management of the project was moved from an external project management unit to become fully
    MAFF managed, - an arrangement which started under ARP II and continues under ARP III. This is
    not only an expression of the developed capacity to handle such project, but also an expression of the
    strong local ownership and desire to internalize the project.

l The project has also developed a strong understanding and political will towards local participation and
    the need to decentralize decision making and empowerment of local communities. High political
    importance is given to WUAs in the operation and management of irrigation systems, and the role
    communities in local resource management has been developed under components 1 and 2. Even, if
    those arrangements are not yet fully functioning in all cases, the understanding of these principles and
    the determination to continue this process is an important contribution of the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Two consecutive drought years (2002 and 2003) have significantly affected the project. Overall food
production was depressed by some 20-30 percent and many rural families sold some of their livestock in
order to cope with the food shortage. In this situation, the successfully implemented vaccination program
has paid off and helped to avoid more pronounced food security problems during this period.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The project started in a post-emergency situation prior to the formal establishment of the MAFF.
Overcoming some early transitional problems MAFF has taken control over the implementation of the
project and has exercised oversight and fiscal control. New policies and laws were supportive to the
project. Low capacity and a lack of appropriate communication tools at the district level negatively affected
some of the project implementation. Weaknesses in coordination between line departments in MAFF
prevented a more integrative approach, in particular under the NRM component which would have
benefited from a concerted effort between the departments of forestry, fisheries, livestock and food crop
production within MAFF.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

A core team of management advisors (project management, financial management, and procurement) and
technical advisors for each component/sub-component were contracted to strengthen the capacity of MAFF
to help implementing the project. Due to problems in MAFF in recruiting sufficiently competent staff, there
was a tendency for advisors to take over management functions, which hampered the process of capacity
building of MAFF's own staff. By January 2004, the ARP II PMU was abolished so that project
management and technical support could be integrated into MAFF's structure. While a continuing learning
and transfer of skills from advisors to MAFF counterparts is necessary, the role and type of advisor and the


                                                      - 12 -

length of contracts needs to be carefully reviewed and limited to a purely advisory function.

No major problems with procurement or disbursement occurred. Procedures designed and agreed were
followed. The procedures for procurement and disbursement are now built into the operations of MAFF,
which initially delayed procedures. However, avoiding parallel procedures is considered the right strategy
in the long-run. To overcome transitional problems, MAFF seconded one of its financial officers on a
part-time basis to the Central Procurement Office.

Three audits of the project accounts were carried out by external auditors. The auditors' reports did not
contain any qualifications, but they recommended some improvements in management to which MAFF
responded positively. The Annual Audit Report and Quarterly Financial and Management Reports (FMRs)
were submitted regularly to IDA. In the few cases of reported financial problem, MAFF promptly
investigated them and management took the necessary actions.

The government complied fully with the covenants of the Grant Agreement. Social and environmental
safeguards were followed and monitored by the IDA team. Due consideration was given to training in the
handling and use of pesticides, since some one of the PASCs imported pesticides.


5.4 Costs and financing:

In the PAD, total project costs were estimated at US$8.9 million with the grant contribution financing
US$8.0 million. The actual project costs at closing were US$8.73 million (98 percent of the PAD
estimates). Of the total project costs, grant disbursements amounted to US$8.00 million (100 percent of
PAD estimates), while the government counterpart funds totaled US$0.73 million (81 percent of PAD
estimates). At the end of the project, the governments counterpart funding was US$0.73 million (originallyy
set at US$0.91 million). Detailed project costs and financing are preserved in Annex 2.

Over 40 percent of the project costs were used for consulting services. Together with the incremental
operating costs and other costs for workshops and training, about 60 percent of all funds were used for
capacity building and overhead costs. Spending for the community grants was the lowest, with only 3
perceent.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project is rated as likely.
Within the MAFF, the project has laid the foundation for a sustainable development of the rural and
agricultural sector. The project's achievements in institution and human capacity building will remain and
will continue to grow. The capacity built in MAFF Directors and Policy Directorate staff to guide policy
work (including drafting of laws and regulations) was significant. MAFF management was able to respond
to the priority needs of the government including necessary adjustments to the changing situation in
Timor-Leste. This capacity would allow MAFF to continue its critical contribution to the government's
effort to provide strategic planning and give policy direction. The foundation for the development of an
appropriate legal framework has been provided under this project, and will be complemented under ARP
III.

The MAFF has successfully implemented the National Vaccination Program, initially through contracted
vaccinators and now through a cadre of private VLWs. The government will continue to fund the



                                                     - 13 -

vaccination campaigns against the major animal diseases (a public sector service). The decision of MAFF
to develop a cadre of trained and private VLWs has put in place a demand-driven, village-level animal
health service that has contributed to a cost-effective and satisfactory implementation of the public national
vaccination program. The private VLWs that provide simple, demand-driven, animal health treatment
service to villagers, initiated in ARP II, is likely to be sustainable. Besides treating animals, the VLWs are
contracted by MAFF as vaccinators to ensure an efficient delivery of the government's vaccination
programs, another source of income for VLWs. A clearer delineation of the VLWs' role in treating animals
(a paid service) and in protecting animals through vaccination (a free public service) is still needed through
intensive information campaigns. The formation of a National VLW Association in 2004 will facilitate the
development of a formal certification system for VLWs to be come accredited animal heath providers.

Some of the infrastructure investment still lacks appropriate O&M arrangements. In particular, the roads
and LTMD irrigation schemes need further commitment from the beneficiaries. The government has fully
recognized this problem and has given the highest priority to the further development of WUAs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project is followed by ARP III, the grant in support of which was made on 03/05/2004. The
component structure of ARP III is similar to ARP II. This will allow consolidating the achievements of the
project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The IDA's performance at lending is rated as moderately satisfactory. The project addressed the priorities
and needs of the agricultural sector. Institution building and capacity strengthening was a recognized need,
however, but was not made part of the development objective. As stated above, the design and expected
outcome was ambitious given the low capacity in MAFF and the short time-frame initially envisaged for
project implementation. The tasks set out in the original design to be implemented within a period of barely
more than two years were ambitious and required several dates extensions. The weak implementation
capacity seen at the design stage was addressed by involving a considerable number of international
advisors absorbing a large amount of project funds. In hindsight, more cost effective alternative design
options simplifying the project and addressing capacity building as part of the development objective could
have merited consideration. This way, advisors would have been given the role of capacity builders rather
than project managers.

Collection of information and analysis of key socio-economic and agronomic data on farming systems had
started at the design stage. However, time pressure prevented a full integration of this information into
project activities. A better understanding of farming systems and livelihood opportunities and a better
analysis of the most severe pockets of food insecurity and its causes in both the upland and lowland areas
could have led to an improved design or an early re-design of some of the project interventions and would
have improved the projects overall outcome.           There are numerous examples of misconceptions and
unexpected behavior by farmers included the hesitation of farmers to plant a second or even a third crop,
unwillingness to use high-yielding varieties in upland and paddy cultivation, and unwillingness to use some
inputs (such as fertilizer) that were not sufficientlt paid attention to. While there is an clear relationship in
project design between the different project components, such as providing physical infrastructure in
irrigation, roads to access input and output markets, information to farmers, and marketing through the
PASCs, the synergetic effects of investment in these components was not fully exploited because of the
absence of a clear strategy for an institutional and spatial integration of components.


                                                      - 14 -

7.2 Supervision:

The operational performance of IDA during supervision is rated as satisfactory. The intensity and
resources used for regular supervision by the IDA team was high. A team of 5 to 9 people conducted
review missions every 6 months. The team provided timely technical and management advice, responded to
emerging problems and issues and tried to address them comprehensively. The supervision process was
demanding given the scarce human and financial resources available in MAFF. Aide-memoires left by the
mission were very detailed and contained a lot of information, and were sometimes not easy to fully
comprehend given the language barriers and the capacity of the local project implementers. In retrospect,
simplification, priority-setting in the action plans and a step-wise approach in addressing issues might have
improved local ownership, understanding and problem solving.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall IDA performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The preparation performance of the government is rated as satisfactory. Given the low local capacity of
the young nation of Timor-Leste, considerable outside support was used in the preparation of this project.
Combining outside expertise with local knowledge and understanding of the rich varieties of farming
systems, livelihood opportunities and socio-cultural perceptions was not easy at the design stage. To some
extent, the complexity in the design brought in by outside expertise combined with well-intended but
sometimes ambitious expectations made it difficult to create the desired level of local understanding and
ownership.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. The government took an increasing level
of ownership during project implementation and made important decisions to improve the project. Shifting
emphasis in irrigation rehabilitation from LTMD irrigation schemes to community-based schemes is a good
example of this. Community-based schemes implemented by local people provide employment during
construction and show much higher prospects to be maintained by beneficiaries.             Restructuring and
internalizing project management was another important decision. The government also recognized and
addressed the problem arising from the delayed development of WUAs and tried to address this problem by
replacement of the international advisor.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Implementation agency performance is rated as having been satisfactory. Given the low number of staff in
MAFF, the complexity of the project design and the competing demands made on most staff performing
different functions at the same time, MAFF has implemented this project diligently and remarkably well.
MAFF and district level staff have successfully carried out implementation of the project despite significant
logistical problems such as absence of transportation (particularly in the early stage of the project), lack of
communication facilities, and devolution of administrative infrastructure by UNTAET.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:




                                                      - 15 -

The overall performance of the government is rated as having been satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Based on the above review and assessments of the project, the following lessons can be drawn for similar
projects:

l Clearly defined results-based indicators, which are easy to monitor, facilitate project
    implementation: Particularly in a project with numerous components and sub-components, the
    contribution of each activity to the achievement of the development objective needs to be well
    understood, periodically reviewed and monitored throughout project implementation. The project design
    and later implementation could have benefited from a clearer definition of food security at the project
    design stage, together with a set of monitorable results-based indicators. Assuming that the primary
    objective of the project was improved food security at the household level (access to food over the
    course of the year), an indicator measuring food production or food stocks (availability) per person or
    per farm family would have been preferable over an indicator measuring yields per hectare. For two of
    the three key outcome indicators (production of upland crops in project areas and households with
    critically low food reserves in project areas) no clear baseline information is available. The increase of
    upland crop production to 120% of the pre-conflict level is an in-appropriate food security indicator.
    At pre-conflict times, the total population was much higher and the agricultural sector had different
    objectives, being part of an existing production sector within a larger country. The definition of `project
    areas' in relation to indicators would have benefited from a clearer demarcation, since different
    components addressed different project areas, ranging from a nation-wide vaccination or
    communication campaign to as little as 29 villages under the participatory Natural Resource
    Management (NRM) activities dispersed over various districts.

l Good understanding of socio-economic situation, farming systems and livelihood opportunities is
    crucial for design and impact analysis: A better understanding of farming systems and livelihood
    opportunities and a better analysis of the most severe pockets of food insecurity and its causes in both
    the upland and lowland areas could have led to an improved design or an early re-design of some of the
    project interventions. The project would have further benefited from a clear strategy for monitoring its
    impact in relation to its components. A household survey was conducted in 2001; however, the
    opportunity of using this survey providing baseline information directly related to the project villages
    and potential beneficiaries was not apparent. Collection of information and analysis of key
    socio-economic and agronomic data on farming systems had started at the design stage, but time
    pressure prevented a full integration of this information.

l Outcome and output targets need to be realistic: The outcome and output targets defined for the
    project and the expectations created were overly optimistic given the post-conflict status of the country,
    the time-frame, and the resources available. For example, restoring some irrigation infrastructure and
    moving from a low production system, using zero fertilizer, to a double cropping system with modern
    varieties and intensive fertilizer application was unrealistic in the absence of any form of extension
    service.   An increase of upland crop production to 120% of the pre-conflict levels was equally
    ambitious.

l Complexity in the design impedes local ownership: Low levels of local capacity require simple but
    effective solutions tailored to local needs, local understanding and local capacity to implement. Foreign
    expertise can help but must not take over local responsibilities and must be used with a well-defined
    exit strategy.



                                                     - 16 -

l Development work is to be built on a legislative framework and functioning institutions: Moving
    from emergency operations towards development support requires a legislative and institutional
    framework. The difficulties faced by the PASCs partly related to the lack of a legislative framework.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

l Overall: We think the Bank's report is a balanced and has acknowledged the strengths and weaknesses
    of all parties - most of which we now know.
l Project start-up: Correctly identified the pressures of time and other factors in starting ARP II, so
    there has always been this dilemma as to whether it is an emergency project or development project.
l Development: We now need to move to being a proper development project were outputs are not the
    main focus, but rather the effect/impact of those activities.
l Farming systems:         A better understanding of farming systems, livelihood opportunities and better
    analysis of the most severe pockets of food insecurity and its causes in both the upland and lowland
    areas could have led to an improved design or an early re-design of some of the project interventions.
l Summary of Lessons Learnt: Please find attached a copy of the Summary of Lessons Learnt from
    ARP II (see Annex 8).
l Improvements and Future Changes: It will mean that some components will have to be severely
    reviewed and modified to ensure that they really assist MAFF in its development as well as assisting
    the Timorese farmers, their families and others in rural areas. As said before, need to move away from
    goals/outputs to impact and effect.

(b) Cofinanciers:

N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N.A.

10. Additional Information


A consortium of donors funded the project through the Trust Fund for East Timor which the International
Development Association managed.




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

 Outcome / Impact Indicators:

                     Indicator/Matrix                                Baseline                          ICR estimate

 Average rice yields increased from 1.5 mt/ha to 1.8                 1.5 MT/ha                  2.48 mt/ha (LTMD schemes)
 MT/ha at the end of the project and to 3.0 mt/ha in 5                                        2.03 mt/ha (community schemes)
 years in irrigated areas rehabilitated by the project.                                         1.65 mt/ha (national average)
 Production of other food crops like maize, cassava,               Not determined        Maize 82 percent and Cassava 73 percent of
 beans at 120 percent of pre-conflict (1999) levels in            for project areas     pre-conflict levels (average from 1992-97) on
 the project areas.                                                                                    a national scale1
 About 20 percent reduction of the number of farm                  Not determined                      No data available
 households that have critically low food reserves in
 the project areas (based on pre-conflict levels).

 Output Indicators:
Components / Indicators:                                                         Appraisal Targets      Achieved at ICR    % Achieved

Component 1: Pilot Participatory Development and NRM
   # of upland and coastal villages assisted                                              30                  29              97%
   % of proposals from groups with female members a/                                      50%                65%             130%

   Component 1: Expenditures (US$ million) b/                                             0.89                0.77            87%

Component 2: Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation
   # of ha. rehabilitated in community irrigation schemes                                2,100               3,908           186%
   # of ha. rehabilitated in light- to medium damaged schemes                            1,430               1,000            70%

   Water User Associations established and operational                                    11                  10              91%
   # km. of access roads rehabilitated                                                    100                 123            123%

   Component 2: Expenditures (US$ million)                                                2.71                2.92           108%

Component 3: Services to Farmers
   % of adult cattle and buffaloes vaccinated c/                                          80                  78              98%
   % of pigs vaccinated c/                                                                80                  93             116%
   # Village Livestock Workers trained                                                    200                 190             95%
   # of PASCs established and fully operational as business enterprises           3 operational; 2      3 established of      40%
                                                                                 newly established    which 2 operational

   Component 3: Expenditures (US$ million)                                                3.10                2.68            86%

Component 4: Program Management
   Policy Option Notes completed                                                           4                   4             100%
   # agriculture staff and NGO partners trained                                           30                  680            2267%

   Component 4: Expenditures (US$ million) d/                                             2.20                2.36           107%

   Total Project Expenditures                                                             8.90                8.73            98%

a/ Number includes women's groups and mixed gender groups, overall women's participation was about 23%.
b/ ICR quoted figure includes US$27,800 which had been committed but not spent at the time of drafting the ICR.
c/ Percentages are based on the number of animals estimated by the Livestock Department. The Impact Assessment based on household
   interviews suggest a much larger number of livestock not covered by vaccination.
d/ ICR quoted figure includes some US$117,100 for goods and US$6,500 for services which had been committed but not spent at the time
   of drafting the ICR.




 1Reference is made to the following numbers:
                                       Crop          Average '92-'97      2004 Latest estimate      Change
                                                          MT                     MT
                                   Rice (paddy)         62,750                  73,758               118%
                                      Maize            110,967                  91,495                82%
                                     Cassava            71,967                  52,600                73%
                               Source: FAO/WFP Crop and Food Supply Assessment (various missions)




                                                                  - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                      Appraisal                Actual/Latest       Percentage of
               Component                               Estimate                   Estimate          Appraisal
                                                     US$ million                US$ million
1. Pilot Participatory Development and                    0.89                       0.77             87%
  Natural Resource Management
2. Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation                    2.71                       2.92             108%
3. Services to Farmers                                    3.10                       2.68             86%
4. Program Management                                     2.21                       2.36             107%
                        Total Project Costs               8.91                       8.73             98%
               Total Financing Required                   8.91                       8.73             98%

Note: The appraisal estimate figures include US$1.2 million physical and price contingencies.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)                 a/




         Expenditure Category                                  Procurement Method
                                                    ICB            NCB             Other      N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Works                                            1.1                              0.9                  2.0
2. Goods                                                                             1.6       0.3        1.9
3. Community Grants                                                                  0.7                  0.7
4. Consulting Services & Studies                                                     2.9       0.1        3.0
5. Workshops, Training & Study Tours                                                 0.5                  0.5
6. Incremental Operating Costs                                                       0.3       0.6        0.9
Total                                               1.1                              6.9       0.9        8.9
a/
  Numbers do not add up due to rounding


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

         Expenditure Category                                    Procurement Method
                                                    ICB            NCB             Other      N.B.F.  Total Cost
1. Works                                            1.0                              0.7                  1.7
2. Goods                                                                             1.4       0.1        1.5
3. Community Grants                                                                  0.3                  0.3
4. Consulting Services & Studies                                                     3.4       0.2        3.6
5. Workshops, Training & Study Tours                                                 0.7                  0.7
6. Incremental Operating Costs                                                       0.5       0.4        0.9
Total                                               1.0                              7.0       0.7        8.7




                                                          - 19 -

  Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

       Component           Appraisal Estimate          Latest Estimate  Percentage of Appraisal
                          TFET     Govt.  CoF.     TFET     Govt.  CoF. TFET     Govt.   CoF.
1. Pilot Participatory     0.85    0.04              0.70   0.07        82%     175%
   Development and NRM
2. Rapid Infrastructure    2.60    0.11              2.80   0.12        108%    109%
   Rehabilitation
3. Services to Farmers     2.65    0.45              2.30   0.38        87%      84%
4. Program Management      1.90     0.31             2.20   0.16        116%     52%
Total                      8.00     0.91             8.00   0.73        100%     80%




                                               - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


A recalculation of the economic returns for the irrigation and vaccination investments was carried out.
However, since no systematic collection of data was done during or after project implementation, the
calculation had to be based on a number of assumptions which have been cross-checked with field
interviews by the ICR team. For other components only a qualitative assessment is made, which basically
uses the appraisal assumptions as a reference and the likelihood at which these assumptions would have
been achieved.

Irrigation schemes: The major benefits come from an increase in crop yields. An average yield increase
for rice of 1.3 tons/ha for the LTMD schemes and of 0.6 tons/ha for the community-based schemes is
assumed as a result of a better and more reliable availability of water. The area receiving reliable irrigation
is assumed to have increased by almost 2,000 ha. Contrary to the PAD assumptions, the project has not
resulted in any significant changes in the production technology. Fertilizer is rarely used and most areas are
still planted with traditional varieties. Double cropping is assumed on some 25percent of the area under the
LTMD schemes. This is also contrary to the PAD assumptions, where for all irrigation schemes generally
double cropping was assumed (and in some areas even triple cropping). Economic costs of labor of US$1.5
per day are used reflecting the opportunity costs of unskilled labor in the country. The cash flow analysis
is calculated over a period of 20 years with annual O&M costs of US$25/ha and replacement costs in year
12. The resulting overall ERR for the irrigation systems is 6 percent with 3 percent for the LTMD schemes
and 11 percent for the community-based schemes, with detailed comparison as follows:

 Irrigation Scheme           Naktuka      Tono     Oemtht    Batugde  Marco      Cailaco     Total    Community
                                                                                             LTMD     based 1


 Investment costs (US$)       127,234 193,989 151,505         123,455 55,848     227,847     879,878    387,240
 Investment costs (US$/ha)        748        746        891     1,543     254       2,278        880          99
 ERR ICR                         12%          6%       11%   negative      6%   negative         3%         11%
 ERR Original feasibility        23%         26%       27%      17%      22%         17%        21%          NA
 study by SNC Lavalin 2
 ERR PAD                         40%         43%       39%      35%      46%         25%        36%         26%

1    Excludes the investment in schemes, which had already been rehabilitated under ARP I.
2    The PAD states: `Conservative estimates and assumptions were used in order to ensure a more realistic and
     robust analysis, as provided by SNC Lavalin who carried out the Feasibility Study'. However, PAD EIRRs
     were generally much higher than Feasibility Study estimates. The detailed assumptions used in the PAD
     calculations were not available for the present report.

The comparison shows that the EIRRs for all schemes are generally well below appraisal estimates. From
the LTMD schemes only Naktuka and Oemathitu show prospects for economic viability. Investment costs
per hectare were two to three times higher than average in Batugde and Cailaco with US$1,543 and
US$2,278 respectively. These schemes show no positive EIRR.

There are three major reasons for the generally lower than expected returns of the irrigation component: a)
the cropping intensity of 124% is far lower than the 205% assumed in the feasibility study, b) the use of
production inputs remains well below expectations. The feasibility study assumes the use of high yielding
varieties with a total of 475kg/ha of fertilizer per crop including 250kg of urea. Actual inputs are about
50kg of urea and no other fertilizers put on mostly traditional varieties, and c) the fact that well above half



                                                        - 21 -

of the investment costs were used for management including the international technical advisors associated
with this component. This analysis does not include the benefits related to the institutional and human
capacity building, which are largely unquantifiable.

Farm-to-Market Access roads: A recalculation of the ERR is not possible because of a lack of any
information about the use of the roads. The PAD assumes a 200percent increase in the use of the roads
after rehabilitation, which could not be confirmed by actual observation of the ICR team, and information
provided by project implementation staff indicating that the development impact of the roads remained
limited. The ERR would likely be lower than 22 percent projected in the PAD.

Vaccination Program: As in the case of the other components, no information has been collected which
would allow an actual economic quantification of this program. In particular, information is missing about
the previous and current mortality rates of livestock. The PAD also lacks information about the underlying
assumptions at appraisal. A test calculation is done assuming a 2 percent-point reduction .         3   This means
that, independent of the absolute mortality rates, 2 percent of the entire stock would be prevented from
death each year as a result of vaccination.           in mortality for each of the three livestock species
(cattle/buffalo, pigs and chicken) and an average economic loss in case of death for each head of livestock
of US$50 for cattle/buffalo, US$15 for pigs, and US$0.5 for chicken It should be noted that this is not the
total value of the animals, since most animals are still used or slaughtered before death. . Using these
assumptions, the ERR would be about 23 percent (compared to the PAD estimate of 28 percent).



Pilot Agricultural Service Centers (PASCs): The PASCs are unlikely to yield positive economic net
returns. Public investment in private commercial activities as intended under this component is justified if
it stimulates additional economic growth which would not come from the private sector alone. The PAD
assumes an increase of annual income of US$150 for some 3,500 farmers in each of the PASCs.
Perception of the farmers interviewed is that the PASCs are generally not competitive and most farmers
prefer using other traders to market their products. It can't be expected that the remaining two PASCs
would have a significant stimulating effect for the local economy.

Benefits not quantified: The most significant benefits of the project remain unqualified: (a) the
awareness-building and training of villagers and government staff in improved and sustainable natural
resource management under the NRM component, together with the empowerment of local communities,
are expected to have a positive long-term impact (in particular in the fragile upland communities) to better
manage their resource base; and (b) the institutional and human capacity-building in the MAFF and
associated institutions alone would have justified the project investment, irrespective of the fact that some
of this capacity building could be been achieved slightly more efficiently.

3
     This means that, independent of the absolute mortality rates, 2 percent of the entire stock would be prevented
     from death each year as a result of vaccination.




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/22/1998                7    TTL (1), INST. URBAN SPEC.
                                             (1), IRRG. MGMT.SPEC. (1),
                                             WATER RES.SPEC. (1),
                                             WATER QUALITY SPEC.(1),
                                             FIN. MGMT.SPEC.(1),
                                             ADM.IMPL. IRRGH.MGMT. (1)
               12/02/1998               8    TTL (1), WATER RES.
                                             SPEC.(1), IRRG.MGMT. SPEC.
                                             (1), WATER QUALITY SPEC.
                                             (1), FIN. MGMT.SPEC.(1),
                                             ADM.IMPL. IRRGH.MGMT.
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LIVESTOCK
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/25/1999                2    TTL (1),
                                             IRRG.MGMT.TRANSFER
                                             EXPERT (1)


 Supervision
              09/11/2001                1    TTL (1)
              11/01/2001                8    TTL (1); SR.                     S               S
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             WATER RES. ECONOMIST
                                             (1); SOCIAL/COMMUNITY
                                             DEVE. (1);
                                             COMMUNICATIONS SPECIAL
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MNG
                                             SPECIAL. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              07/03/2002                6    RES. ECONOMICS (TTL) (1);        S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             WATER RES. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             COMMUNITY DEV. SPECIAL
                                             (1); COMMUNICATIONS
                                             SPECIAL (1); SR.
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1)
              06/20/2003                9    SR. NAT. RES. ECONO. (1);        S               S
                                             SR.AGRIC.(MISS LEADER)
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                                             LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST (1);




                                              - 23 -

                                                  SOCIAL EXPERT (1);
                                                  INFORMATION EXPERT (1);
                                                  SR. FINANCIAL MNG (1); SR.
                                                  PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
               02/13/2004                    6    TTL/SR. NAT. RES. ECON (1);          S          S
                                                  SR. AGRICULTURIST (1); SR.
                                                  IRRIGATION ENG. (1); SR.
                                                  SOCIAL EXPERT (1);
                                                  AGRO-BUSINESS EXPERT (1);
                                                  SR. FIN. MNG EXPERT (1)
               07/23/2004                    8    TEAM LEADER, NRM ECONO               S          S
                                                  (1); SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                                  SR. SOCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                  AGRI-BUSINESS SPECIALI
                                                  (1); SR. IRRIGATION
                                                  ENGINEE (1);
                                                  COMMUNICATIONS SPECIAL
                                                  (1); SR. FINANCIAL SPECIAL
                                                  (1); EC PARTICIPANT (1)


 ICR
               03/09/2005                   3      TEAM LEADER, NRM                    S          S
                                                   SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                                   AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                                   ECONOMIST (1)

Note: The above mission members generallyundertook combined supervision/preparation or
supervision/appraisal or supervision/ICR tasks for ARP I, ARP II, and ARP III respectively.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     312.2
  Supervision                                                               450.5
  ICR
  Total                                                                     762.7
Note: Identification/Preparation/Appraisal/Negotiation figures and Supervision/ICR figures were
combined. The figures include consultant trust funds and FAO/CP.




                                                   - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


A.   IDA/World Bank Documents
1.   IDA. 2001. Trust Fund for East Timor Grant Agreement for the Second Agriculture Rehabilitation
     Project. International Development Association, Washington, D.C.
2.   World Bank. 2001. Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project. Project Appraisal Document, The
     World Bank, Washington, D.C.
3.   World Bank. 2002. Analysis of Timor Lorosa'e Household Survey for the Ministry of Agriculture,
     Forestry and Fisheries. The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
4.   World Bank. 2001 to 2004. World Bank Missions' Aide Memoire for six review missions and
     Mid-Term Review Report. The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
5.   World Bank. 2003. Social Appraisal Report: Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Program (ARP III).
     The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
6.   World Bank. 2003. Implementation Completion Report: Agriculture Rehabilitation Project. The
     World Bank, Washington, D.C.
7.   World Bank. 2004. Third Agriculture Rehabilitation Project. Project Appraisal Document, The
     World Bank, Washington D.C.

B.   Grantee/Government Documents:
1.   Lincoln International. 2002. ARP II Capacity building and project management: Training needs
     assessment. Lincoln International Consulting, Lincoln, Australia.
2.   MAFF. 2001 to 2004. ARP II Quarterly Project and Financial Reports. Ministry of Agriculture,
     Forestry and Fisheries, Dili, Timor-Leste.
3.   MAFF. 2001. Project Implementation Plan for the Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project.
     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Dili, Timor-Leste.
4.   MAFF. 2003. ARP II Training Plan, July 2002-December 2003. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
     and Fisheries, Dili, Timor-Leste.
5.   MAFF. 2003. National Prioritization and Sequencing. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
     Fisheries, Dili, Timor-Leste.
6.   MAFF. 2004. Final Report for Livestock Component of ARP II. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
     and Fisheries, Dili, Timor-Leste.
7.   MAFF. 2004. Operational Manual for ARP Participatory Development and Natural Resource
     Management. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Dili, Timor-Leste.
8.   MAFF. 2004. Operation Manual for Community Irrigation and Roads Rehabilitation. Ministry of
     Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Dili, Timor-Leste.
9.   MAFF and OXFAM. 2004. Study on Lessons Learned in Implementing Community Level
     Agriculture and Natural Resource Management Projects in Timor-Leste. Final Report, Ministry of
     Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries and OXFAM, Dili, Timor-Leste.
10.  MAFF. 2004. Impact Survey of ARP II and Baseline Survey of ARP III: Analysis Report.
     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Dili, Timor-Leste.
11.  MAFF. 2005. Implementation Completion Report: Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project.
     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Dili, Timor-Leste.
12.  RTDL. 2002. National Development Plan. Planning Commission, Democratic Republic of
     Timor-Leste, Dili, Timor-Leste.




                                                - 27 -

C. Other Documents
1.  ETTA, ADB, World Bank and UNDP. 2001. The 2001 Survey of sucos: Initial analysis and
    implications for poverty reduction. East Timor Transition Administration of the United Nations,
    Asian Development Bank, World Bank, and United Nations Development Program, Dili,
    Timor-Leste.
2.  FAO/WFP. 2003. Special Report, FAO/WFP Crop and Food Supply Assessment Mission to
    Timor-Leste. Food and Agriculture Organization and World Food Program of the United Nations.
    Rome, Italy.
3.  JDAM. 2001-2005. Joint Donors for Agriculture Mission Reports. Dili, Timor-Leste.




                                             - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Lessons Learned from ARP II - ICR prepared by
Implementing Agency

(full details in MAFF ICR, dated March 2005)

1)     Aspects of capacity building
       Overall, ARP II contributed significantly to capacity building in MAFF. Key aspects of capacity
       building were:
·      Progressive improvement during ARP II implementation in staff numbers and their capacities to
       manage delivery of project inputs. Annex 4 summarizes the staff situation at the beginning and end
       of ARP II; and
·      Training supported by ARP II significantly added to MAFF's skills and to staff's better
       appreciation of the knowledge and experience of other countries that can be gathered to benefit
       Timor-Leste. Annex 5 summarizes training supported by ARP II.

2)     Capacity building
·      Providing physical resources (vehicles, computers, essential office furniture etc.) was important to
       support MAFF's capacity building objective. However, these resources were necessary but not
       sufficient to ensure more general institutional development;
·      Capacity making is slower and more difficult to achieve at District level than at HQ. Special
       attention must be given to supporting District officers' development as these officers are at the
       sharp end of MAFF's link between Government and the rural dwellers that MAFF is charged with
       serving. District-level officers must be given adequate and timely access to field support resources
       must have the knowledge required for the tasks they are set and they must have easy and open
       communications with HQ staff to backstop their activities. Professional skills (and language skills)
       remain weak at District level compared with HQ;
·      Language skills in English are essential for all management-level staff and senior HQ and
       District-level personnel. HQ and District levels continue to have their opportunities for professional
       interaction with visiting specialists limited by language constraints. Lack of English has also
       limited learning possible through the Internet; and
·      Teamwork across Directorates at District level is essential if more than single-topic development
       issues are to be addressed effectively. Resources to allow teams to be mobilized effectively must be
       available in a timely way in recognition of the seasonality of fieldwork in agriculture.

3)     Technical-social issues
·      Gender targets for participation that were originally set for women in ARP II activities were
       unrealistic. Adequate focus must be given to the participation of women where relevant but this
       should not be done to the extent that overall costs rise and project impacts are reduced to ensure
       participation merely to achieve some pre-determined level of participation. A better appreciation of
       gender issues during ARP II would have been helpful to implementation. Awareness and sensitivity
       to gender issues must be an ongoing part of the development of the MAFF professional culture;
·      WUAs must be established earlier on in parallel with investments in rehabilitation of irrigation
       schemes. Enforceable agreements between WUAs and MAFF are a precondition for investment by
       MAFF;
·      Farmers in upland areas have strong revealed preferences for MAFF support for investments that
       have short-term positive impacts on their well-being as regards food production, food security and
       income improvement;
·      PASCs were generally unsuccessful and remain likely to be weak, high-cost competitors with the


                                                   - 29 -

    emerging private agricultural traders who have low overheads and are willing to operate as needed.
    Expected returns to investments in the PASCs were unjustifiably optimistic and diverted effort and
    investments from potentially higher return activities. The risks inherent in the PASCs were
    understated;
·   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) was done poorly in all Directorates during ARP II. This
    resulted in less-than-ideal information being available to MAFF managers and the MAFF
    management team for decision making; and
·   Face-to-face interaction is the preferred mode of interaction between MAFF and their farmer and
    village clients. The multi-media promotions for technical change made by ARP II (Component 3A)
    were poorly appreciated by farmers compared with face-to-face contact with persons able to
    provide farmers with relevant knowledge. Extension modes relevant to farmers' needs and to
    MAFF's resources will be tested in ARP III.

4)  Other project-related matters
·   Rehabilitation: The term `rehabilitation' used in the titles of ARP I, II and III deserves attention.
    National capacities for devising and implementing agricultural development were almost absent in
    the early independence period, so in that context there was a well defined need to re-build ­ i.e.,
    rehabilitate ­ destroyed or neglected infrastructure that was basic to re-establishment of a viable
    agricultural sector in Timor-Leste. The design of ARP I was consistent with this `rehabilitation'
    imperative. The same `rehabilitation' theme was carried forward in to ARP II, especially in
    Component 2, and again into ARP III. The activities of the other components of ARP II were not
    `rehabilitative' but pilot programs (e.g., NRM) or routine services (e.g., vaccination programs) that
    can be expected to continue as core MAFF activities. The continued use of term `rehabilitation' in
    the MAFF's flagship investment project in ARP III is unhelpful; and
·   Project title: It would be appropriate to consider re-titling ARP III to one that better reflects its
    purpose of achieving agricultural development. A suggested title is `Agricultural Development
    project I', `ADP I'. A change to the Grant Agreement would be required to effect his change.
·   MAFF-NGO-Donor collaboration:
    -       Collaboration between MAFF, donors and NGOs improved during ARP II
             implementation. Further improvement is required;
    -       At the Ministry-level, the annual Agriculture and Rural Development Donors' Meetings
            have been a powerful tool to review and define national needs for agricultural development
            and provide donors with opportunities to contribute to Timor-Leste's development;
    -       At operational level, non-ARP II projects with staff working out of MAFF HQ contributed
            to professional development in MAFF. Examples are the ACIAR `Seeds for Life' and
            GTZ projects. The informal professional associations made possible by these projects
            should strengthen progressively in ARP III;
    -       Collaboration is weaker at District level, where some gaps and overlaps in field operations
            have hampered or slowed development. The special challenges of effective delivery of
            development investments at local level were acknowledged by MAFF and donors during
            ARP II's implementation; and
    -       In 2003, the MAFF, donors and NGOs agreed to the need to establish an NGO-Donor
            Coordination Secretariat within MAFF in order to reduce gaps and overlaps in delivery
            and to improve communication with up-to-date information about agricultural development
            activities across Timor-Leste.




                                                - 30 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 31525R

                       Halmahera                             135°                          0°
                                                                          PA C I F I C                                  125°00'                                               125°30'                                                126°00'                                            126°30'                                          127°00'
                                                                           O C E A N
   SULAWESI                                                                                                                                                                 Atauro                                                                          S t r a i t  o f    W e t a r
                                                                                                                                                                                                Biquele
                                                                                                                                                                             Island
                             Buru     Ceram                        P A P U A
                                                                                                                                                                                              Atauro
                    Muna          Banda                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ponta
                                   Sea                                                                      Alor Island
                                                             Aru                            GUINEA                                                                               Berau                                                                                                                                                    Luture          Ponta
    I N D O N E S I A                                         Is.                     APUAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Váli          Aimoco
                            Wetar      Babar                                                              (INDONESIA)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Meno
Sumbawa                           Moa            Tanimbar Is.
           Flores     Alor                                                                        NEW                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ponta            Lautém                Com     Matchar
                             Dili                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Uço
                             TIMOR-LESTE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ponta                                 Íssi                                            Tutuala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Laivai                                                Ponta Cutchá
                        Timor                      Arafura Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bondura                                              Maínal
       Sumba                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ponta                                                                                                                                                        Jaco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hatolana                                                               Baucau                                       Fuiloro                                  Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ruin                                             Bucóli
                                                                                                       8°30'                                                                                                                                                                                        Laga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Manatuto                                                                             LAUTEM                                         8°30'

                                                                         Gulf of                                                                                                       Dili       Metinaro                                                  Vermasse                                                                          Lospalos
                                                                       Carpentaria                                                                                       Comoro                                                                  Laleia                                                         Atelári
15°                                                                                                                                                      Liquiça                                 D I L I                 Lacló                                                                                          Luro

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Uai Onassa      BAUCAU
       120°                      A U S T R A L I A                                                                                      Maubara
                                                                                                                                   Ponta                                                                                                                                                         Quelicai
                                                                                                                                Corimbala                        Bazartete                                                                                             Venilale                            Baquia
                                                    124°30'                                                                                        LIQUIÇA                                                                                                                                   Uaibua
                                                                                                                                                                           Railaco                                            MANATUTO                                                                                                          Loré
                                                                                                                                                                                           AILEU                                                                                                             Uato Carabau
                                                                                                                                                                   Punilala                                                                    EASTERN                                                              Iliomar                    Ponta

                                                                                                                                                                                        Aileu                                                                                                                                                  de Loré
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ossu
                                                                                                                                                    Lissapote          Ermera                                       Laclubar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Uatolari                           Ponta
                                                                                                                               Ponta
                           S a v u                   S e a                                                                                                     ERMERA                                                                                Lacluta                                                                Imá
                                                                                                                               Bauc                                                                                                                                 VIQUEQUE
                                                                                                                       Ponta                 Atabae           Hatolia                                   Turiscai                                                                                      Ponta
                                                                                                                     Fotocapo                                             Letetoho          Maubisse                                     Barique                                                      Caissae
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Viqueque
                                                                                                                                               WESTERN                                                                                                                                                 Lúli

                                                                                                                                                                          2963
                                                                                                                                                                      Atsabe        Hato Builico
                                                                                                                                       BOBONARO                                                  CENTRAL                                                                            Bé Aco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fato Berliu
                                                                                                      Atapupu             Balibo                    Maliana                                                                                                                        Ponta

  9°00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Umaboco                            Deilubún
                                                                                                                                                                        Ainaro                    Same                                                                                                                                                                        9°00'

                                                                                                                                                               Bobonaro                         MANUFAHI         Alas


                                                                                                                Atambua                                                  Mape
                                                                                                                                                                         AINARO           Hatudo

                                                                                                                                                                             Zumalai
                                                                                                                                                        Loloto                                                      Ponta
                                                      Wini                                                                                                                                                          Metibot
                           Oecussi                                                                                                       Fatolulic
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ponta
                                                                                                                             Fatomean                                                                   Lalétec

                                                                                                              Halilulik                     COVALIMA
                                                                                                                                      Fohorem
                         O E C U S S I
 Baoknana                                                                                                                                Tilomar         Suai
                                                                                                                                                           Cabo
                Nítbe            Oé Silo                                                                                                                   Suai                                               T i m o r                 S e a
                                                                                                                                                  Cabo
                                                                                                                        Kotafun
                                       Kefamenanu                                                                                                 Tafara

                              Passabe
  9°30'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9°30'

                                                       (INDONESIA)

                                                                                                                   Besikama
                                                     124°30'                                                            125°00'                                               125°30'                                               126°00'                                             126°30'



                                                                                                                                                                                                 TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                                                                                 SECOND AGRICULTURAL                                                                                                                                              TIMOR-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LESTE
                           0      5     10      15     20        25     30 KILOMETERS                                                                                           REHABILITATION PROJECT

                           0           5          10           15          20 MILES                                                                                        MAIN ROADS                                                 ELEVATIONS:

                                                                                                                                                                           AIRPORTS                                                         2000 METERS AND ABOVE

                                                                                                                                                                           SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                      1500-2000 METERS
                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                                                                                                  1000-1500 METERS

                     on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                              500-1000 METERS
                     judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                     acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                              0-500 METERS

                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JUNE 2005

