Page  1
CONFORMED
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
GRANT NUMBER TF050151
Trust Fund for East Timor
Grant Agreement
(Second Agriculture Rehabilitation Project)
between
EAST TIMOR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor
Dated October 29, 2001
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
GRANT NUMBER TF050151
 TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 29, 2001, between EAST TIMOR, as administered by the 
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR (the Recipient) 
Page  2
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as trustee of 
the Trust Fund for East Timor.
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution No. IDA99-5 
of the Executive Directors of the Association, the Executive Directors established the Trust Fund 
for East Timor (TFET) to assist in the emergency reconstruction and recovery program in East 
Timor and appointed the Association as trustee of the TFET;
(B)
the United Nations Security Council, acting under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations, adopted on October 25, 1999, Resolution 1272 (1999) establishing a United 
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) for an initial period until January 
31, 2001, whereas UNTAET has the objectives and a structure as set out in part IV of the Report 
of the Secretary-General dated October 4, 1999, and whereas the mandate period for UNTAET 
was, pursuant to the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1338 (2001) of January 31, 
2001, extended until January 31, 2002; and
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested assistance from the 
resources of the TFET for funding the Project; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend 
the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 The “General Conditions Applicable to the Trust Fund for East Timor 
Grant Agreements” of the International Development Association, dated May 15, 2000 (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Accounting and Procurement Manual” means the manual to assist the 
Recipient’s Project Management Unit in the carrying out of the Project, as such manual may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Trustee;
(b)
“Affected Persons” means persons who, solely on account of and as a direct 
result of the physical implementation of the activities under Parts A.1, B.1 or B.2 of the Project, 
had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, interest in 
any house, land (including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable 
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets 
adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected; and “Affected Person” means individually all those who 
Page  3
qualify as Affected Persons;
(c)
“
Conselho do Suco
” means a development council at the village level as 
established in accordance with Regulation 13/2000 of the Recipient;
(d)
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year starting July 1 and ending June 
30;
(e)
 “Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Framework 
adopted by the Recipient for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement 
assistance to Affected Persons, as such Framework may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Trustee;
(f)
“Operational Manual” means the manual to assist the Recipient in the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time with 
the prior agreement of the Trustee;
(g)
“Pilot Agriculture Service Center” means a farmer-owned enterprise designed to 
provide agricultural services and agricultural inputs to farmer communities;
(h)
“Program” means the Recipient’s program for the agriculture and natural 
resources sector;
(i)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
“Project Management Unit” means the unit established within the Recipient’s 
Division of Agricultural Affairs or a successor thereto, and responsible for the implementation of 
the Project, including the implementation of the financial management and procurement action 
plans, and means the Project implementation entity for purposes of sub-sections (g), (h), (i) and 
(j) of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions;
(k)
“Project Performance Indicators” means those indicators designed to measure 
the Recipient’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(m)
“Sub-grant” means a grant made available by the Recipient out of the proceeds 
of the Grant for a Sub-project under Part A.1 of the Project; and
(n)
“Sub-project” means a specific investment project carried out under Part A.1 of 
the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Page  4
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount equal to eight 
million Dollars ($8,000,000).
(b)
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this Agreement 
except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose pursuant to the Resolution 
referred to in Whereas (A) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for amounts paid (or, if the 
Trustee shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient on account of a Sub-grant made under Part 
A.1 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Sub-project 
and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested; and (ii) for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods, works and services required for Parts A.2, B, C and D of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through 
its Division of Agricultural Affairs or any successor thereto, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering,  financial, and public health 
practices, and sound environmental and social standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and except 
as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
Page  5
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and furnish to the 
Trustee not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a plan to ensure the continued achievement 
of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Trustee, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Trustee, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Trustee may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
Page  6
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Trustee for 
the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than October 1, 2002, or such later date as the 
Trustee shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Trustee, 
each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness, Termination
Page  7
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement:
(a)
that the Project Management Unit is staffed as set out in paragraph 1 (a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)
that the Accounting and Procurement Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, has 
been adopted in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Grant 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date on which the Trustee dispatches to the Recipient 
notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 5.01 of this Agreement.
(b)
If, before the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would have 
entitled the Trustee to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account if the Trust Fund Grant Agreement had been effective, the Trustee may postpone the 
dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section until such event or events shall 
have ceased to exist.
Section 5.03. If the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall not have entered into effect ninety 
(90) days after the date of this Agreement, the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and all obligations of 
the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the Trustee, after consideration of the reasons for 
the delay, shall establish a later date for the purposes of this Section. The Trustee shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary General, United Nations 
Transitional Administration in East Timor, is designated as representative of the Recipient for 
the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Dili, East Timor
c/o Cabinet Officer for Economic Affairs
P.O. Box 2436
Darwin, NT 0801, Australia
Facsimile:
61-889463901 
61-889463902 
1212-9632180
Page  8
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Dili, as of 
the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
      IN EAST TIMOR
By      
/s/
Dennis McNamara
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
       as Trustee for the Trust Fund for East Timor
By
/s/
Sarah F. Cliffe      
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  9
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar)_______
to be Financed
(1) Civil works
100%
(a) Under Parts B.1 and B.2
1,550,000
             of the Project
(b) Other
160,000
(2)  Goods (including local
       transportation to site)
1,400,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
90% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(3)  Sub-grants
600,000
100% of Sub-grant
amount disbursed
(4)  Incremental operating  
300,000
100%
       costs
(5)  Training, workshops,
650,000
100%
       fellowships and 
       study tours
(6)
Consultants’
2,260,000
100%
services and studies
(7)  Unallocated
1,080,000
TOTAL
8,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of East Timor for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of East Timor; provided, however, that for purposes of this definition, the 
Dollar shall be deemed the currency of a country other than that of East Timor;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures other than foreign 
expenditures; and
(c)
the term “Incremental operating costs”
 
means reasonable expenditures incurred 
Page  10
by the Recipient for bank charges and Project auditing costs, local travel costs and per diem of 
Project staff and consultants, and Project Management Unit and District Agriculture Offices 
communications, consumables, and supplies, internet links, and vehicle operation and 
maintenance but excluding staff salaries (which expenditures would not have been incurred 
absent the Project).
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (2), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after August 1, 2001; (b) payments made for 
expenditures in respect of Category (1)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
unless and until a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework acceptable to the 
Trustee has been adopted by the Recipient in accordance with paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and (c) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless and until said Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Policy Framework and the Operational Manual for Part A of the Project, acceptable to the 
Trustee, have been adopted in accordance with paragraph 8 and paragraph 3, respectively, of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) civil works costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract; (b) goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) 
Sub-grants; (d) incremental operating costs; (e) training, workshops, fellowships and study tours; 
and (f) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent 
each and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent 
each; all under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the Grant 
Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee for deposit into the 
Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the 
Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in improving food security of rural  
families and increasing sustainable agricultural production in selected areas of East Timor.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A
: Pilot Participatory Development and Natural Resources Management
1.
Carrying out of natural resources management and agriculture related investment 
projects in pilot villages in the districts of Baucau, Covalima, Dili, Lautem, Liquica, Manufahi, 
and Oecussi, through the provision of Sub-grants to the relevant 
Conselho do Suco
.
Page  11
2.
Strengthening the capacity of villages and the 
Conselho do Suco, 
and of agriculture 
offices and partner non-governmental organizations, in the planning, implementation and 
monitoring of Sub-projects through the provision of technical assistance, training, workshops and 
study tours. 
Part B
: Rapid Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1.
Carrying out of rehabilitation and maintenance works on community-based irrigation 
schemes and farm-to-market access roads.
2.
Carrying out of rehabilitation works on about seven light to medium damaged irrigation 
schemes in the districts of Baucau, Bobonaro and Oecussi.
3.
Carrying out of a feasibility study for the rehabilitation of about three damaged major 
irrigation schemes.
4.
Establishment of new and strengthening of existing irrigation water user associations, 
including provision of related technical assistance and training, and development of a policy for 
the operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes.
5.
Provision of training in irrigation management to the staff of the Recipient’s Division of 
Agricultural Affairs and to irrigation staff at the district level.
6.
Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation of road and irrigation rehabilitation works, 
including technical audits.
Part C
: Services to Farmers
1.
Information to Farmers
(a)
Development of information programs addressing farmer needs on, among others market 
and climate conditions, and timing of vaccination campaigns,
for dissemination through printed 
media, radio broadcasts, electronic media and other public communication means, and provision 
of relevant training. 
(b)
Establishment of a small liaison secretariat for the Consultative Group for International 
Agricultural Research at the Division of Agricultural Affairs, including provision of technical 
assistance and equipment.
2.
Sustainable Animal Health Services
(a)
Carrying out of national vaccination campaigns to immunize animals against 
prevailing infectious diseases, such as hemorrhagic septicemia and brucelosis, classical swine 
fever and Newcastle disease,
 
including provision of vaccines, and related equipment and supplies 
through the Recipient’s Livestock Unit of the Division of Agricultural Affairs and livestock staff 
at the district level.
(b)
Establishment of a system of village livestock workers, including provision of 
training to district level trainers, training of selected worker candidates, provision of veterinary 
equipment starter kits and veterinary medicines, and provision of technical assistance to the 
Division of Agricultural Affairs in the drafting of a regulatory framework
 and to livestock staff 
at the district level
.
Page  12
3.
Pilot Agriculture Service Centers
Establishment and operation of two Pilot Agriculture Services Centers, and operation of 
three existing Pilot Agriculture Services Centers, including: (a) construction of offices, shops and 
related facilities; (b) provision of equipment (including vehicles, processing machinery, tools, 
and related spare parts), and agricultural inputs; and (c) provision of technical assistance and 
training.
Part D
: Program Management
1.
Policy and Strategy Development
Carrying out of policy and strategy option studies in connection with the Recipient’s 
Program, including (a) policy options on food security, self sufficiency and agriculture growth; 
(b) policy options on rural development; (c) forestry strategy; and (d) coastal fisheries baseline.
2.
Project Management and Capacity Building
(a)
Enhancement of the operational capacity of the Recipient’s District Agriculture 
Offices through the provision of furniture, office equipment and vehicles
(b)
Provision of training, study tours and workshops on project management, 
participatory techniques and relevant technical subjects to staff of the Recipient’s Division of 
Agricultural Affairs, District agricultural staff and to relevant national staff of non-governmental 
organizations.
(c)
Strengthening the Project Management Unit through the provision of vehicles 
and technical assistance.
*          *          *          *          *
 The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Trustee in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Page  13
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Veterinary medicines of a proprietary nature and vaccines, costing $300,000 equivalent 
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Trustee's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles may be procured from the United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Services 
Office in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
Page  14
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Trustee, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall 
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
7.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project may be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D
: Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Trustee for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts in each Fiscal Year procured under 
international shopping procedures, the first two contracts in each Fiscal Year procured under 
national shopping procedures, the first two contract in each Fiscal Year procured under small 
works procedures, and contracts for goods procured under direct contracting procedures, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Trustee a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Trustee a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  15
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Trustee in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule.
Part B
: Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the feasibility study under Part B.3 of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits of Project accounts shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3
.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training and monitoring and evaluation of Project activities estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for facilitation, supervision of irrigation works and information programming 
under Part A.2, B.2 and C.1 (a) of the Project, respectively, may, with the Trustee's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Review by the Trustee of the Selection of Consultants
Page  16
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Trustee for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and advisory services under Part D.1 and 
D.2 (c) of the Project, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Trustee for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall maintain until completion of the Project, a Project Management Unit 
responsible for the overall management of the Project, headed by a qualified and experienced 
Project Director, said Unit to be provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources 
and staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in sufficient numbers, including: (a) on a full 
time basis, a procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, and a monitoring and 
evaluation specialist; and (b) on a part-time basis, a Project management advisor, a procurement 
advisor, a financial management advisor and a monitoring and evaluation advisor. The Recipient 
shall ensure the appropriate participation of the heads of sectors representing irrigation, crop 
production, livestock, fisheries and forestry in the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Recipient shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of the Project, the 
Accounting and Procurement Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, which shall include the 
description of: (a) the procurement procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and 
standard procurement documentation; and (b) reporting requirements, financial management 
procedures and audit procedures as set forth in Article 4 of this Agreement.
3.
The Recipient shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of Part A of the 
Project, the Operational Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, which shall include the description 
of: (a) the criteria for the selection of pilot villages and Sub-projects; (b) the terms and 
Page  17
conditions of Sub-grants; (c) the process for preparation of Sub-project proposals and their 
monitoring; (d) the procurement procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and 
standard procurement documentation; (e) reporting requirements, financial management 
procedures and audit procedures as set forth in Article 4 of this Agreement; (f) the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework; (g) the environmental criteria applicable to 
Sub-project design including environmental impact mitigation; and (h) maintenance provisions 
for works to be carried out under a Sub-project.
4.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall disclose to those villagers 
participating in Part A of the Project, in a timely manner,
 
public information aimed at disclosing 
to villagers and their representatives, all administrative, financial, environmental, procedural and 
technical aspects pertaining to the selection, design, preparation and implementation of 
Sub-projects; and make such information, including the Operational Manual, freely available for 
consultation at the District offices.
5.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall select pilot villages in the 
districts of Baucau, Covalima, Dili, Lautem, Liquica, Manufahi and Oecussi in accordance with 
the following criteria:
(a)
preference shall be given to poor upland and coastal villages;
(b)
villages shall have dynamic and productive groups of farmers and a known history 
of sound local governance and strong traditional leadership; and
(c)
villages should be willing to contribute local labor and materials as their in-kind 
contribution to the Sub-project.
6.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that, prior to the carrying 
out of works under a Sub-project:
(a)
a technical review of such Sub-project shall have confirmed the following: 
(i)
the criteria described in the Annex to this Schedule have been complied 
with;
(ii)
necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been 
obtained, including a Sub-grant and any voluntary contributions to be made by 
villagers;
(iii)
appropriate technical and environmental standards and practices  have been 
incorporated into the Sub-project in accordance with the Operational Manual;
(iv)
the requirements of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy 
Framework have been complied with, and, if applicable, appropriate 
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation arrangements have been completed 
and are satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth under the Policy 
Framework; and
(v)
a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the Sub-project 
Page  18
has been prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the Trustee, which shall 
include assignment of maintenance responsibilities in the respective village, 
preparation of training programs to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the 
village, and identification of available sources of financing to carry out such 
programs; and
(b)
a Sub-project agreement has been entered into between the PMU and the Conselho 
do Suco, which includes an implementation plan for the Sub-project and a maintenance program, 
in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
7.
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall, through the District Agriculture 
Offices:
(a)
 cause each 
Conselho do Suco
 to ensure that farmer groups carry out the 
Sub-projects, selected in accordance with the Annex to this Schedule, in accordance with the 
Operational Manual and the respective Sub-project agreements; and
(b)
periodically update the Operational Manual, if needed, with the prior agreement 
of the Trustee.
8.
In carrying out Parts A.1, B.1 and B.2 of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
adopt a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework acceptable to the 
Trustee; 
(b)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of persons and 
to avoid the displacement of said persons;
(c)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of persons is 
unavoidable, ensure that the Recipient shall, before carrying out the works which would result in 
such acquisition or displacement, make available to Affected Persons, compensation, 
resettlement,  and rehabilitation measures in accordance with said Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework; and
(d)
in the event that there are two hundred or more Affected Persons:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with said Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework and furnish such plan to the Trustee for 
approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the works, ensure that all Affected Persons shall 
have been compensated in accordance with the provisions of said plan.
9.
In carrying out Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, the Recipient shall follow appropriate 
environmental procedures acceptable to the Trustee, including carrying out preliminary 
screening of irrigation schemes and farm-to-market access roads, and developing and 
implementing any environmental impact mitigation measures that may be required. 
10.
In carrying out Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, the Recipient shall, in consultation with 
the Trustee, select irrigation schemes that are ongoing schemes, and that involve only minor 
Page  19
additions or alterations to the ongoing scheme that: 
(a)
will not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to another 
riparian state; and
(b)
will not be adversely affected by another riparian state’s possible water use.
11.
In carrying out Part C.3 of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
take all measures required to ensure that the provision of pesticides to the Pilot 
Agriculture Service Centers is in accordance with policies acceptable to the Trustee; and
(b)
appropriate training is provided to farmers in the safe use of pesticides.
12.
Training under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with a training program 
acceptable to the Trustee.
13.
In carrying out Part D.1 of the Project, the Recipient shall not later than October 31, 
2002, furnish the results of the study on policy options on rural development to the Trustee for 
comments.
14.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and furnish to the 
Trustee, on or about October 1, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Trustee, by October 31, 2002, or such later date as the Trustee 
shall request, the respective report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and 
the Trustee’s views on the matter.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
Sub-project Selection Criteria
The Recipient shall cause Sub-projects to be selected in villages in the districts of 
Baucau, Covalima, Dili, Lautem, Liquica, Manufahi and Oecussi in accordance with the 
following criteria:
Page  20
1.
No Sub-project shall: (a) include expenditures intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose; (b) include civil works for government administration or religious purposes; (c) relate to 
the manufacture or use of environmentally hazardous goods (including asbestos, pesticides, 
herbicides, fungicides and poisons), arms, explosives or drugs; (d) include the financing of 
government or council member salaries; (e) include expenditures for sit-in fees for workshops; 
(f) include inputs that only benefit individuals or small groups (including livestock, vehicles, 
tractors, fishing gear, boats and motors); (g) include expenditures for community inputs that 
would require external financing after Sub-project completion; (h) include imported hybrids; (i) 
include chainsaws and other equipment that may harm the environment; (j) include activities 
likely to have a significant negative environmental or social impact (including farming on steep 
slopes); (k) include activities where funding is available from other sources, or 
income-generating activities that would qualify for micro-credit; or (l) include the financing of 
land acquisition.
2.
A proposed Sub-project shall:
(a)
be a natural resources or agriculture related investment project which is 
technically, financially and economically viable, and socially and environmentally sound;
(b)
have an implementation period that does not go beyond June 30, 2003; and
(c)
not require  high recurrent expenditures. 
3.
Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the estimated cost of a proposed 
Sub-project:
(a)
shall be not less than $1,000 and not more than $10,000; and
(b)
(i) when added to the amount of Sub-grants approved in the relevant village does 
not exceed in the aggregate $20,000, or (ii) when added to the amount of Sub-grants approved in 
the relevant District does not exceed in the aggregate $125,000 per District.
SCHEDULE 5
Project Performance Indicators
Impact Indicators
Mode of 
Verification
Mid-term
Project Completion
Average rice yields 
increased from 1.5 
MT/ha. to 3.0 MT/ha. in 5 
years  in irrigated areas 
rehabilitated under the 
Project
Household 
survey 
2001and
field surveys 
Average rice yield 
maintained at 1.5 
MT/ha. in the Project 
areas   
Average rice yield 
increased from 1.5 
MT/ha. to 1.8 MT/ha. 
in the Project areas
Page  21
P
roduction of other food 
crops like maize, cassava, 
beans at 120% of 
pre-conflict (1999) levels 
in the Project areas
Household 
survey 
2001and field 
surveys
Production of maize, 
cassava and beans 
increased to 100% of 
pre-conflict levels in 
the Project areas 
Production of maize, 
cassava, and beans 
increased to 120% of 
pre-conflict levels in the 
Project areas
About 20% reduction of 
the number of households 
that have critically low 
food reserves in the 
Project areas 
Project 
baseline 
survey 
About 20% reduction of 
the number of 
households with 
critically low food 
reserves in the Project 
areas
Page  22
Output Indicators
Mode of 
Verification
Mid-term
Project Completion
14-30 upland and coastal 
pilot villages assisted by 
the Project
Project 
progress 
reports
At least 14 pilot 
villages assisted by the 
Project 
About 30 pilot villages 
assisted by the Project, 
if initial pilots are 
judged successful at 
mid-term
3,530 ha. of irrigated 
areas rehabilitated (both 
larger and 
community-based 
irrigation schemes)
Irrigation 
rehabilitation 
reports and
Project progress 
reports
About 1,600 ha. of 
irrigation schemes are 
rehabilitated (about 
600 ha. of larger 
irrigation schemes and 
about 1,000 ha. of 
community-based 
irrigation schemes)
About 3,530 ha. of 
irrigated areas are 
rehabilitated (about 
1,430 ha. of larger 
irrigation schemes and 
about 2,100 ha. of 
community-based 
irrigation schemes) 
About 80% of adult cattle, 
buffaloes, and pigs 
vaccinated annually
Vaccination 
campaign 
reports
and Project 
progress 
reports
About 80% of adult 
cattle, buffaloes, and 
pigs have been 
vaccinated annually 
About 80% of adult 
cattle, buffaloes and 
pigs have been 
vaccinated annually
 3 existing Pilot Agriculture 
Service Centers are 
operational and two new 
Pilot Agriculture Service 
Centers have been 
established
Pilot 
Agriculture 
Service Center 
reports and 
Project 
progress 
reports
3 existing Pilot 
Agriculture Service 
Centers are fully 
operational as business 
enterprises
2 new Pilot Agriculture 
Service Centers have 
been established, if 
existing  Pilot 
Agriculture Service 
Centers are fully 
operational as business 
enterprises at mid-term
At least 30 Division of 
Agricultural Affairs staff and 
NGO partners trained on 
Project management,  PRA 
techniques, and selected 
technical topics
Training 
evaluation  
reports and
Project 
progress 
reports
At least 15 Division of 
Agricultural Affairs 
staff and NGO 
partners trained on 
relevant topics
At least 30 Division of 
Agricultural Affairs 
staff and NGO partners 
trained on relevant 
topics 
Overall, about 30% of 
trained farmers and other 
beneficiaries are women
Training 
evaluation 
reports and 
Project 
progress 
reports
About 10% of trained 
farmers and other 
beneficiaries are 
women
About 30% of trained 
farmers and other 
beneficiaries are women
Page  23
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Trustee requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Trustee the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Trustee 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from the 
Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
Page  24
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Trustee shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Trustee, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so 
request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Trustee into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such outstanding 
amount.
Page  25
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
