C&  2.q0 --7
FILE  COPY                              RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA- 119
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
December 29, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURECY . $QUIVALESTS
US$1.00       t    2..30 Ethiopian dollars (E$)
E$ 1.o0        -    US$0.43
E$ 1 million   5    US$435,000
VEIGS AND MEASURES
Metric S ytem
2
1 sq meter (      2           10.8 ),8sq feet
1 sq kilometer (mi )     -    0.386 .q miles
1 kectare (ha)                2,47 acres
-1 millimeter (mm)        -    0.0394 ines
1 .oentimeoter (cm)      -    0.394 inches
1 meter (m)              -    3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)         -    0.62 miles
1 liter                  -    0.264 US gallons
1 kilogram  (kg)         -    2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)       -    2,205 pound
'MARS
Unless otherwise stated, the year 1969/1970, for example,
meas the year running from September It, 1969 :through
September 10, 1970, which is the E-thiopian Era .calendar
year 1962. This "year" corresponds closely -to the
"coffee year" for International Coffee Agreement quota
purpoes (October 1 through September 30), and starts -at
about.the-same time as the Ethiopian coffee harvesting
--aon (mid-September).
IY.indicates IDA's fiscal year from July 1
through June 30.
GLOSSARY OF AR3EVIAYWS
AIDS -    Agricultural and Industrl dve         t   k
in1 -    Institute of Agriculturil  esearch
IG  -    Imperial Ethiopian Government
"IR   -    Inperi*l HiSIway Authority
CeB  -    National Coffee Joard
PIU  -    Project Implemntation Unit (of the NCB)



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .................................   i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ............................................                      1
II.    BACKGROUND ..............................................                        1
A.   General  ........................................                   1
B.   The Coffee Sector  ..............................                   2
C.  The National Coffee Board  ......................                    3
D.   Research .......................................                    3
E.   Agricultural Credit ............................                    4
F.   Cooperatives  ...................................                   4
III.    THE PROJECT AREAS  .......................................                       5
IV.    THE PROJECT  .............................................                       6
A.   General Description ............................                    6
B.  Detailed Features  ..............................                     7
C.   Cost Estimates  .................................                  10
D.   Financing  ......................................                  12
E.  Procurement  ....................................                   13
F.   Disbursement  ...................................                  14
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .............................                     14
A.   General  ........................................                  14
B.   The Project Implementation Unit  (PIU)  ....             ......    14
C. The Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank  ..........................................    16
D.  NCB Licensing  ..................................                   18
E.   Accounts and Audit  .............................                  18
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS                     .......    19
A.   Production  ...........   I         ..........................     19
B.  Markets and Prices  .............................                   19
C.   Financial Results  ..............................                  20
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission in September/Oc-
tober 1970, composed of Messrs. Eccles, Huas (IDA), Cheriyan (FAO/IBRD Coop-
erative Program), Gardiner and Schluter (Consultants).



-2
Page No.
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....2.........................   21
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACaED AND RECOMMENDATION ....       ...............   22
A_NEXES
1.   Coffee Types and Processing Methods
2.  Quality Deficiencies in Production of Ethiopian Unwashed Coffee
3.   The National Coffee Board
4.   The Banking System and the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank
5.   Project Phasing
6.   Road Design Standards and Construction Methods
7.  Typical Washing Station
8.  The Project Implementation Unit
9.   Project Cost Estimates
10. Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
11. Credit Policies and Procedures
12. Washed Coffee Production Forecasts
13. World Outlook for Coffee
14. Markets and Prices for Ethiopian Export Coffees
15.  Cash-Flow Projections and Financial Return Calculations
16. Economic Rate of Return Calculations
MAP S
1.   Existing ar!d Potential Coffee Growing Areas
2.   Project Area:  Sidamo Province
3.  Project Area:  Kaffa Province



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report concerns the appraisal of a coffee processing project
in Ethiopia to improve the quality of the coffee produced and thus increase
export earnings. It fits into the Government's agricultural strategy of
concentrating resources on regions or crops of high potential and would
benefit both the private and cooperative sectors in Sidamo and Kaffa Prov-
inces.
ii.       The project involves construction of about 100 coffee washing
stations 1/, improvements to about 100 existing stations, construction of
about 400 km of access roads and technical assistance activities. The
latter comprise the preparation of follow-up projects; coffee research by
the UNDP/FAO-assisted Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR); and a sur-
vey of the Ethiopian coffee economy by the Government's National Coffee
Board (NCB). The International Coffee Organization would actively assist
in the survey and would probably finance it.
iii.      Construction would be phased over 3 years, with technical services
and coffee research extending over 5 years and the build-up of incremental
working capital over 6 years. By full development in 1977/78, an addition-
al 11,000 tons per annum of coffee, now processed by traditional sun drying
methods, would be washed, which would raise its export value by about US$2.6
million. The economic rates of return of the proposed investments would
average from 17% to 21%.
iv.       About 70 of the proposed new washing stations would be initially
owned and operated by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), an operationally
independent unit of NCB to be established specifically for this purpose. The
PIU stations would be transferred to cooperatives of coffee farmers as soon
as they can be promoted and achieve adequate management levels. The
remaining washing stations involved in the project would be owned by existing
cooperatives, private merchants and private estates. Credit would be
channelled to waslhing station owners through the recently created Government-
owned Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB). PIU would be
staffed to be responsible for all road construction, to provide technical
services for all washing station owners under the project and to prepare
follow-up projects.
v.        Total cost of the project is estimated at US$10.3 million.  The
proposed IDA credit of US$6.3 million would cover 61% of the total cost, in-
cluding about US$2.3 million of local currency financing, as well as the
1/   For an explanation of "washing" and other technical terms used in this
report, see Annex 1.



- ii -
foreign exchange component of US$4.0 million, which represents some 39% of
total costs. Remaining finance would come from coffee washing station owners,
AILDB and Government.
vi.       The foreign exchange component of the project includes coffee
processing machinery, road construction equipment, expatriate personnel and
personnel vehicles. Almost all machinery, equipment and vehicles would be
procured through international competitive bidding procedures. Roads in
Sidamo would be constructed by PIU in the absence of suitable alternatives.
Roads in Kaffa and washing stations would be constructed by local contractors,
following local competitive bidding under PIU's supervision.
vii.      The project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US';6.3 million. Some US$2.8 million of the proceeds of the IDA credit
would be passed on to AIDB for lending to washing station owners, including
NCOB (for PIU washing stations). The remainder would be passed directly
by Government as grants to NCB (for use by PIU) and IAR for road construction,
PIU headquarters establishment, technical services, project preparation and
research. It is proposed that up to US$100,000 of the IDA credit be disbursed
retroactively to cover some preparatory work - staff advertisements; prep-
aration of bid documents; and preliminary surveys - which have already been
sta.rted.



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Imperial Ethiopian Government (IEG) has requested an IDA credit
of US$6.3 million to assist in financing a coffee processing project, in the
cooperative and private sectors, to improve the quality of current exports
and thus to increase export earnings. The project involves construction of
about 100 coffee washing stations, improvements to about 100 existing sta-
tions, construction of about 400 km of access roads, and technical assistance
activities. The project would eventually increase Ethiopia's export earnings
by some E$6.0 million (US$2.6 million) per annum.
1.02      This would be the fourth IDA credit for agricultural development in
Ethiopia, and small amounts for agricultural credit have also been provided
under two fully repaid Bank loans, totalling US$4.0 million, made in 1950 and
1961 to the Development Bank of Ethiopia. The first two IDA credits were
made in FY 70 for the Wolamo and Humera Agricultural Development Projects
(169-ET, US$3.5 million, and 188-ET, US$3.1 million, respectively); both are
progressing satisfactorily. A third IDA credit was signed on August 30, 1971
for the Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project (269-ET, US$4.4 million); but is
not yet effective.
1.03      The project was identified in October 1969 by staff of the Perma-
nent Mission in East Africa, who subsequently assisted the Ethiopian National
Coffee Board (NCB) in its preparation. This report is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. Eccles, Huas (IDA), Cheriyan
(FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program), Gardiner and Schluter (Consultants), which
visited Ethiopia in September/October 1970.
1/
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Ethiopia, with an area of about 1.2 million km , has a population
of 25 million, which is increasing at approximately 2% per annum. While
92% of the people live in rural areas, urban population is rising rapidly.
GDP grew at about 4.5% per annum during 1961-69. Per capita income, at
about US$65, is one of the lowest in the world.
1/   For further information on the Ethiopian economy, and the agricultural
and coffee sectors in particular, see: "Economic Growth and Prosperity
in Ethiopia", IBRD Report No. AE-9 of September 22, 1970; and "Current
Position and Prospects of the Ethiopian Economy", IBRD Report No. AE-21
of November 18, 1971.



- 2 -
2.02      Ethiopia's economy is dominated by subsistence agriculture.  The
average farm size is estimated at 3.3 ha, but about 80% of the 5 million
farmers cultivate less than 2.2 ha. Agriculture generates about 60% of GDP
and about 97% of total exports, and provides a livelihood for about 90% of
the population. Gross value of agricultural production has increased
recently at about the same rate as population, i.e. 2% per annum. This
low growth rate reflects the minimal extension services; the absence of
institutional credit for the majority of small farmers; the land tenure
system, which often involves inequitable share-cropping; and the lack of
feeder roads, with consequent marketing problems. In attempting to correct
these deficiencies, IEG has decided to concentrate its resources on regions
or crops of high potential and to encourage the growth of cooperatives. The
project fits in with this strategy, providing rapid returns by increasing the
value of an existing crop.
B. The Coffee Sector
2.03      Ethiopia is probably the center of origin of Arabica coffee.  How-
ever, although its production is important to the Ethiopian economy, gene-
rating some 60% of total export revenue (1969: E$174 million, or US$76
million), little is known about the coffee economy, particularly local trade
and consumption. Production estimates vary from 160,000 to 200,000 tons/annum
i.e. about 5% of total world production. About 10,000 tons are now washed
coffee, with the remainder unwashed. Legal exports are about 80,000 tons,
i.e. about 2% of world trade, with some additional coffee smuggled out to
avoid export duties. Practically all the washed coffee produced is exported.
Existing and potential coffee growing areas are shown in Map 1.
2.04      About 60-65% of production is harvested from wild coffee growing
under natural forest cover in western Ethiopia. A further 30-35% comes
from small plots around dwellings, principally in Sidamo Province ("garden"
coffee), and the remainder from plantations in Kaffa Province. With no prun-
ing, fertilizing or disease control, and with only minimal weed control
(mainly to facilitate picking), yields are very low -- some 250 kg/ha for
garden coffee and 700 kg/ha for better plantations, or about half of the
yields achieved in Brazil. Yields per ha of forest coffee depend on tree
density; yields per tree are probably even lower than for garden coffee.
However, there is little firm information and these quoted yield figures are
quite tentative.
2.05      While the intrinsic quality of Ethiopian coffee is good, the low,
but slowly improving, standards of harvesting, on-farm drying and subsequent
handling of unwashed coffee result in low prices. Further improvement in
the quality of unwashed coffee is likely to be slow because of inadequate
communications and extension staff and because low-density forest coffee
appears to be uneconomic to harvest properly, resulting in high proportions
of over-ripe and unripe cherries; Annex 2 gives further details. The
washing process provides a means for controlling quality since farmers are
required to deliver fresh cherry for processing and unsuitable cherry can



-3-
be rejected.  High prices have been obtained for Ethiopian washed coffee
(on average better than for Kenya or Colombia), despite some primitive
washing stations and substandard quality control on cherry ripeness. Washed
coffee production has, therefore, been stimulated in recent years, mainly
by exporters with close links with the Federal Republic of Germany -- a
major importer of quality coffees. However, further development is
constrained by availability of access roads (washing stations must be near
farms if cherry is not to spoil), adequate water for processing, and
suitable coffees (not all types respond sufficiently well), and by the
economics of proper harvesting in the large areas of low-density forest
coffee.
C. The National Coffee Board
2.06      The coffee industry is regulated by the National Coffee Board (NCB),
an autonomous body set up in 1957 with particular responsibility for improving
the quality of export coffees. In 1962, it assumed responsibility for im-
plementing Ethiopia's obligations under the International Coffee Agreement,
under which exports to major markets are limited. Further information on
NCB and its operating methods is given in Annex 3.
2.07      NCB has had some minor success in improving quality, such as re-
ducing shipments of defective coffee and encouraging washed coffee produc-
tion. Although on-farm improvements would be difficult to effect without
massive, and probably uneconomic, staff inputs, some improvements could be
induced in processing and handling facilities through more effective use of
its existing powers to license and regulate them. In January 1972, NCB
proposes to initiate a coffee exchange in Addis Ababa, through which all
coffee brought to the capital would have to be traded; it would include
a voluntary auction system.
2.08      Ethiopia's coffee export quota is now about 75-80,000 tons/annun.
However, although there was no particular shortage of coffee in the country,
Ethiopia failed to fulfil permitted quota exports in 1965/66, 1968/69 and
1969/70 by about 10,000, 7,000 and 5,000 tons, respectively. IEG is now
considering giving NCB additional powers to deal with this situation --
which is discussed in more detail in Annex 3 -- in particular broad powers
to control and regulate all aspects of coffee production, processing and
marketing (including pricing).
D. Research
2.09      Agricultural research is being increasingly centered in the Insti-
tute of Agricultural Research (IAR), an autonomous body set up in 1966
under the chairmanship of the Ministry of Agriculture. Since its inception,
IAR has been assisted by UNDP/FAO, and a 3-year follow-up program was ap-
proved in January 1971. Among the UNDP project experts are a coffee processing
engineer and a coffee agronomist, working out of the Jimma Coffee Research
Station. The agronomy program is currently restricted to station trials of



- 4 -
various types of coffee, while the processing program has concentrated on
washing. Much useful work has been done in selecting coffee types and pro-
cessing methods that best fit Ethiopian conditions, an essential prerequi-
site for this coffee processing project. The Jimma Research Station has an
experimental washing station which is also used for training purposes.
E. Agricultural Credit
2.10      Three commercial banks -- the state-owned Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia and two private banks -- make short-term advances to the
coffee industry, principally for crop finance. Exporters' needs are gen-
erally adequately provided for, since export paper can be rediscounted
with the central bank -- some E$40 million (US$17 million) were outstanding
as of November 30, 1971. Less than one-quarter of processors' needs are
met from these sources, however, chiefly because of insufficient collateral,
and only about E$12 million (US$5 million) were outstanding on the same date.
Part of the remaining needs of prpcessors are supplied by exporters, but
most is obtained from money-lenders. Institutional short-term interest
rates range from 7-1/2% to 9-1/2%, but non-institutional rates sometimes
run more than four times as high.
2.11      The only institutional source of medium- and long-term credit for
coffee in Ethiopia is the state-owned Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank (AIDB), which is to be the credit channel for the project. Established
by decree dated August 1970, AIDB took over most of the assets and liabilities
of two existing institutions (the Development Bank of Ethiopia and the
Ethiopian Investment Corporation) which were operating in the same fields
and competing for scarce financial and managerial resources, with unsatis-
factory results for both. AIDB has wide powers to make loans (including
short-term loans) and equity investments in virtually any commercially
viable development projects. As of December 10, 1971, AIDB's loan portfolio
for coffee amounted to some E$3.4 million (US$1.5 million), of which some
E$2.2 million (US$1.0 million) assumed from predecessor institutions were
inactive and at court. Of the active portfolio of E$1.2 million (US$0.5
million), some E$0..5 million (US$0.2 million) had maturities exceeding
4 years, some E$0.2 million (US$0.1 million) had maturities between 1 and 4
years and the remaining E$0.5 million (US$0.2 million) were short-term.
Some E$0.5 million (US$0.2 million) of this active coffee portfolio resulted
from new commitments by AIDB during the past year, the remaining E$0.7
million (US$0.3 million) having been assumed from predecessor institutions.
A preliminary assessment of AIDB's first year's operations, and further
information on the Ethiopian banking system are given in Annex 4.
F. Cooperatives
2.12      Cooperative development in Ethiopia is recent, with the basic
Cooperative Law dating from 1966 and supplementary Regulations from 1968.
By July 1971, some 55 societies had been registered with some 17,000 members,
and another 80 societies were in various stages of promotion. Five of the



six registered coffee cooperatives are in the project areas. The two in
Kaffa Province are well-established and would move into washed coffee production
under the project. One of the three in Sidamo Province is well-established
and already has a washing station; the other two are relatively undeveloped.
IEG policy is to support cooperative development as an essential vehicle for
reaching the smaller farmer but a shortage of trained cooperative staff
restricts promotional and developmental activities. The Department of
Cooperatives in the Ministry of National Community Development, headed by
the Registrar of Cooperatives, has a staff of only 50 and an annual budget of
about E$0.3 million (US$0.1 million). Cooperative training is currently
available as part of village level worker courses offered by the Awasa
Community Development Training and Demonstracion Center. Eight-month
cooperative courses were scheduled to begin in September 1971 for 30 trainees,
to be later expanded to 60.
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
Location and Communications
3.01      The project areas are the coffee growing parts of Sidamo and
Deressa Awrajas (sub-provinces) of Sidamo Province (Map 2) and Limmu and
Jimma Awrajas of Kaffa Province (Map 3). The provincial capitals (Awasa
and Jimma) are connected to Addis Ababa by all-weather roads of 250 km
and 350 km, respectively, and there is an ample supply of 10-ton trucks
to transport coffee. From Addis Ababa, coffee for export is sent by rail
to Djibouti (French Territory of Afars and Issas) or by road to Assab (Map
1). Feeder roads within the project areas are practically non-existent, however,
which is hindering development generally and of washing stations in particular
(paras 2.05 and 3.05).
Population and Land Tenure
3.02      Sidamo Province has a population of about 2.1 million, some 1.1
million of whom live in the project area. Kaffa Province figures are about
1.1 million and 0.6 million, respectively. About 96% of the economically
active population of both areas are engaged in agriculturally related occu-
pations and only 3-4% of the total are literate. Available information on
land tenure is fragmentary. Much of the land is leased under a bewildering
array of different tenancy conditions, and sharecropping is common, with
the landlord's share varying from one-third to one-half.
Topography, Climate, Soils and Agriculture
3.03      Project areas are hilly, with many streams and rivers, and alti-
tudes of 1,500-2,000 m. Rainfall data are lacking, but annual rainfall is
estimated to be 1,300-2,000 mm. Wettest months are July-September when
dry-weather roads are generally impassable. The dry season runs from mid-
October through January/February, coinciding with the coffee harvesting
season. Soils are generally red laterite clay loams, slightly acid, deep
and well-drained. These conditions are ideal for growing and drying coffee,



- 6 -
which is the most important cash crop. Other important crops, mainly for
local consumption, are enset (or "false banana" -- a starchy staple food
which also supplies local needs for fiber), maize, sorghum, barley and teff
(a popular local grain). Spices and honey are also produced, and there are
substantial livestock herds.
Coffee Production
3.04      The project areas contain garden coffee in Sidamo and forest and
plantation coffee in Kaffa, generally cultivated to the minimal standards
described in paragraph 2.04, except that the forest coffee, being in a
relatively developed area, has usually been improved by in-filling of nat-
ural gaps between "wild" trees. Total annual production is unknown but
thought to be about 40,000-50,000 tons for Sidamo and 50,000-65,000 tons
for Kaffa; amounts marketed through NCB-controlled channels have varied
from 16,000-26,000 tons and 28,000-42,000 tons, respectively, over the
past five years. About 8,000 tons and 1,000 tons, respectively, are washed
Arabica; the remainder is unwashed.
3.05      Exporters and IAR have identified the coffees from the project
areas as particularly suitable for the washing process and there is ample
water during the processing season. Development in Sidamo has been rapid
and there are now 166 washing stations in operation, one run by a coopera-
t:Lve and the others by merchants. Because of the lack of feeder roads and
indiscriminate licensing by NCB, these stations are all concentrated at river
crossings on or near the single main road (Map 2); standards of construction
anid operation vary from atrocious to quite good, but, in most cases, incorrect
siting too near river banks has led to pulp and effluent disposal directly
into rivers with consequent pollution downstream. There is no room for
fuirther development until feeder roads are constructed into the interior.
3.06      Merchants in Kaffa are not so progressive as those in Sidamo and
washing has so far been confined to a number of larger estates and indi-
vidual larger farmers, some using hand-operated pulpers and very primitive
washing and fermenting facilities. Interest in the washing process is now
spreading to smaller estate owners and cooperatives.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project forms part of IEG's program to increase export earn-
ings from agriculture by improving coffee-processing methods. It involves
construction of 100 new washing stations (each of 100-ton capacity), re-
building or modification of 100 existing stations, construction of 400 km
of access roads, incremental working capital and technical assistance
activities, arranged in sub-projects as follows:



- 7 -
(a) Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project: construction of about
70 washing stations for eventual ownership by the cooperative
movement, with 200 km of feeder and 100 km of access roads,
incremental working capital and an experimental drier;
(b) Sidamo Private Sector Sub-project: a survey of 166
existing washing stations and subsequent rebuilding of
about 30 stations and minor modifications to another 70;
(c)  Kaffa Cooperative Sub-project:  construction of about 20
washing stations to be owned by two existing cooperatives,
with 40 km of feeder and 60 km of access roads;
(d) Kaffa Estates Sub-project: construction of about 10
washing stations; and
(e) Technical Assistance Activities: preparation of follow-
up projects, coffee research and a survey of the Ethiopian
coffee economy.
4.02      An operationally independent unit of the National Coffee Board
(NCB), to be known as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), would be set
up to construct and initially own and manage the washing stations in the
Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project, to provide technical services (including
road construction) for all sub-projects and to carry out the preparation of
follow-up projects. Eventually, PIU washing stations would be transferred
to the cooperative movement, as and when suitable cooperatives are promoted
and established. Washing stations under the other sub-projects would be
managed by existing enterprises and cooperatives. The survey of the coffee
economy would come directly under NCB and research under the Institute of
Agricultural Research (IAR). The credit channel would be the Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) acting as agent for IEG.
B. Detailed Features
Phasing
4.03      Construction of washing stations and roads would start at the
beginning of the next dry season, in October 1972 and would take 3 years.
Technical services and coffee research would extend over 5 years and the
build-up of incremental working capital for the operation of PIU washing
stations over 6 years. Further details are given in Annex 5.
4.04      To meet the target for starting construction, planning and survey
staff would have to be recruited for the project no later than March 1972
and invitations to bid on the necessary road construction equipment would
have to be issued by the end of April 1972. Some preparatory work - staff
advertisements, preparation of bid documents and preliminary surveys - has
already been started and it is proposed that this be financed retroactively
out of the IDA credit up to a limit of US$100,000.



- 8-
Sidamo Cooperative Sub-Project
4.05      Road Construction.  The proposed 200 km of feeder roads would form
loops off the main Awasa-Dilla road into the interior of the coffee-produc-
ing areas. The proposed washing stations would be linked to these feeder
roads by minimal standard factory access roads averaging about 1.5 km per
washing station. Potential washing station sites and road alignments have
already been identified from aerial photography, as shown in Map 2; they
would be confirmed by project technical staff, first by aerial inspection
and later by ground survey.
4.06      Roads would be constructed for dry-weather operations only, since
the harvesting season is mostly dry. The early processed crop, harvested
before the end of the rainy season, would be stored temporarily at the
washing stations. Since the Imperial Hlighway Authority (IIIA) is not currently
structured to handle minor roads of this type and since neither local authori-
ties nor contractors are capable of building them on the proposed scale,
main construction would be carried out by PIU, using imported equipment,
with river crossings constructed by local contractors. There would be no
final design stage, but center lines would be laid out by ground survey
teams and construction teams would apply general design standards as they
proceeded. Design standards, construction methods and maclhinery and
staffing needs are described further in Annex 6.
4.07      Only about 40% of the useful life of the imported equipment would
be used up by the project. It would then be available for maintenance of
project roads or further road construction (including that required in any
follow-up projects). Assurances have been obtained during negotiations
that arrangements for maintenance of project roads, and post-project use
of the imported equipment, would be satisfactory to IDA.
4.08      Washing Station Construction.  Washing stations would be sited
near rivers with adequate water flow for the washing process. They would be
constructed by local contractors to a standard design adapted by project tech-
nical staff to the particular site. Each would have a capacity to process
about 100 tons of coffee per season and would cost some E$58,000 (US$25,200),
including about E$10,000 (US$4,300) worth of simple machinery. Experience
shows that this capacity station could be handled by a manager without so-
phisticated training or education. The proposed number of stations would
be sufficient to process about 20-30% of the coffee produced within a
reasonable distance and is appropriate for a first-stage development. Sites,
averaging 1 ha each, would be acquired by the local administration and
leased to PIU.  Further details are given in Annex 7.
4.09      Establishment of PIU Headquarters.  With office buildings and
housing expected to be available for rent in the project areas, establishment
of PIU headquarters involves mainly staffing costs and personnel-carrying
vehicles to enable it to carry out technical services for all sub-projects
during the development period.  A mechanical drier, such as is used in other
countries but not as yet in Ethiopia, would be provided for trial purposes.
Further details are given in Annex 8.



- 9 -
4.10      Since PIU is a new institution, the incremental needs of working
capital for crop purchase and washing station operating costs are considered
as project costs.
Sidamo Private Sector Sub-Project
4.11      Because of generally poor siting and construction (para 3.05), a
survey of each of the existing 166 washing stations in the Sidamo project
area would be carried out by PIU technical staff. The survey would recommend
modifications, principally concerned with hygienic pulp and effluent disposal,
which would be required for a station to retain its NCB operating license
(see para 5.13 for related assurances); and other optional modifications to
improve efficiency and quality control. The project would include credit
for complete rebuilding of 30 stations, at an average cost of E$58,000
(US$25,200), and for minor modifications of 70 stations, at an average cost
of about E$4,000 (US$1,700). About 56 stations would probably close down
because it would be impractical to modify or rebuild them to the required
standards. The remaining 10 stations would probably need no modifications.
Kaffa Cooperative Sub-Project and Kaffa Estates Sub-Project
4.12      Some 35 washing station sites have been tentatively identified by
two well-established Kaffa cooperatives (Map 3) and more than 50 Kaffa estates
have expressed interest in the washing process. However, present cooperative
membership could adequately supply only about 13 stations and only one or
two estates individually produce enough to adequately supply a station.
The project would include credit for 20 washing stations for the coopera-
tives and 10 for the estates, thus allowing for some expansion in coopera-
tive membership and for several estates to come together.
4.13      Estates likely to be involved in the project are already con-
nected to the road network. For each cooperative station, however, it
would be necessary to upgrade an average of 2 km of existing dry-weather
roads to the feeder road standards for the Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project
(Annex 6) and to construct about 3 km of factory access roads. These
short stretches of road would be constructed by local contractors, under
contract to, and under the supervision of, PIU. Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that no cooperative station would be constructed
under the project which requires the construction or improvement of more
than 10 km of road.
Technical Assistance Activities
4.14      Preparation of Follow-Up Projects.  A project preparation team
would be established within PIU to prepare follow-up projects, involving
high priority investments in the coffee sector and diversification in
Sidamo Province to take advantage of the road construction program and
development of a cooperative structure.
4.15      Coffee Research.  IAR's existing coffee research activities (para
2.09) would be augmented to investigate:



- 10 -
(a)  different methods of grading Ethiopian coffee in order
to maximize returns from exports; and
(b)  current forest coffee management practices and possible
improvements.
The first is a two-year program, the second, a five-year first stage of a
prcbable ten-year program. Both would be supervised by UNDP/FAO experts
already in the field. Agreement was reached during negotiations that no
disbursements would be made from the IDA credit for the research component
of the project prior to IDA approval of a detailed research program.
4.16      Coffee Survey.  The proposed survey of the Ethiopian coffee econ-
omy would have three objectives: to find out more about the current coffee
economy; to develop a permanent information and planning unit within NCB; and
to recommend how NCB should regulate marketing under the International
Coffee Agreement export quota system. A pilot survey, in the Sidamo and
Kaffa Provinces, started with the 1971/72 coffee season with FAO staff
assistance. The International Coffee Organization is expected to play a
leading role in financing, planning, staffing and supervising the survey.
During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that the survey would be
conducted by consultants satisfactory to IDA, employed under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA.
C. Cost Estimates
4.17      Total cost of the project is estimated at E$23.6 million (US$10.3
million). About E$18.9 million (US$8.2 million), or 80% of total project
costs, would be expended during the construction period through September
1975. Remaining expenditures, through December 1977, relate to technical
services, research and incremental working capital. The foreign exchange
component, E$9.3 million (US$4.0 million), represents about 39% of total
costs and includes coffee processing machinery, road construction equipment,
expatriate personnel and personnel vehicles. Cost estimates are summarized
in the following table. Details are in Annex 9.



- 1 1 -
E$'000                US$'000         Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Exchange
Sidamo Cooperative Sub-
Project
Washing Station
Construction              1,665  2,017  3,682    724    877  1,601    55
Road Construction             884  2,064  2,948    384    897  1,281    70
PIU HQ Establishment        1,461  1,060  2,521    635    461  1,096    42
Incremental Working
Capital                   6,313    -    6,313  2,745       -   2,745    -
10,323  5,141 15,464  4,488  2,235  6,723    33
Sidamo Private Sector
Sub-Project
Washing Station Rebuilding  714    864  1,578    310    376    686    55
Washing Station Modifica-
tion                         38    214    252       17     93    110    85
752  1,078  1,830    327    469    796    59
Kaffa Cooperative Sub-
Project
Washing Station
Construction                476    576  1,052    207    250    457    55
Road Construction             258    376    634    112    163    275    59
734    952  1,686    319    413    732    56
Kaffa Estates Sub-Project
Washing Station
Construction                238    288    526    103    126    229    55
Technical Assistance Activities
Preparation of Follow-up
Projects                    170    350    520       74    152    226    67
Coffee Research               531      77    608    231       33    264    13
Coffee Survey                 540    360    900    235    157    392    40
1,241    787  2,028    540    342    882    39
Contingencies                 1,059  1,020  2,079    460    444    904    49
TOTAL PROJECT COST           14,347  9,266 23,613  6,237  4,029 10,266    39
- of wlhich import duties       266    -       266    116    -        116



- 12 -
4.18      Estimates are based on prevailing prices in Ethiopia, taking into
account recent changes in various rates of foreign exchange. For imported
machinery items, a contingency allowance has been made for a 5% annual rise
in prices, with no allowance for quantity increase. For road construction,
an additional physical contingency of 15% has been allowed for, in view of
the imprecise estimate of total lengths of road involved. For all other
categories except incremental working capital, a combined contingency
allowance has been made for possible increases in price and physical inputs,
averaging 9%. This is in line with the relative price stability in Ethiopia
in recent years and the straightforward nature of proposed coffee washing
station construction.
D. Financing
4.19      Estimated project costs would be financed as follows:
IDA Contribution
Total Project Cost        Channelled Through
Coffee
Processors AIDB  IEG    Total  AIDB  IEG   Total
…--------------------E$  000.---- .-_________
Sidamo Cooperative Sub-Project
Washing Station Construction    -    3,682   -        3,682 3,682   -    3,682
Raad Construction                        -    2,948  2,948   -   2,861  2,861
PIU HQ Establishment               56    -    2,465  2,521   -   2,345  2,345
Incremental Working Capital      -    6,313   -       6,313   -      -      -
Other Washing Stations            1,074  2,334   -      3,408 2,334   -    2,334
KafEa Road Construction             -      -       634    634   -      634    634
Pre]paration of Follow-up
Projects                          -      -      520    520   -       510    510
Coffee Research                     -      -      608    608   -       568    568
Coffee Survey                       -      -       900    900   -      -      -
Contingencies                       116    871  1,092  2,079   607   959  1,566
Total (E$'000)                    1,246 13 200  9 167 23 613 6 623 7 877 14,500
Totial (US$'000)                    541  5,739 3,986 10266 2880 3,420 6
% oE Total                            5     56      39    100    28    33      61
Total (Net of IDA Contribution)
(US$'000)                  541  2,859    566  3966   -        -        -
% of Total                            5     28       6     39



- 13 -
4.20      The proposed IDA credit of US$6.3 million (E$14.5 million) would
finance about 61% of estimated total project costs. US$4.0 million, or 63%
of the credit, would finance foreign exchange expenditures, while US$2.3
million, or 37% of the credit, would finance local currency expenditures.
4.21      IDA's contribution would cover 100% of the costs of washing station
construction in the Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project; about 70% of the costs
of washing station construction or modification in the other sub-projects;
and 100% of the costs of road construction, establishment of PIU headquarters,
preparation of follow-up projects and coffee research; all net of import
duties on vehicles and of land purchases. IEG's contribution (net of DA's
contribution) of about E$1.3 million (US$0.6 million) would cover import
duties on vehicles, land purchases and the coffee survey; although it is
expected that IEG would be able to recover the costs of the latter from the
International Coffee Organization's Coffee Diversification Fund. AIDB's
contribution (net of IDA's contribution) of about E$6.6 million (US$2.9
million) would cover the incremental working capital needs of the PIU washing
stations; this contribution would be provided out of AIDB's own resources.
The coffee processors' contribution of about E$1.2 million (US$0.5 million)
would consist of down-payments averaging 30% of the costs of washing station
construction or modification, except for PIU whose only contribution would
be its purchases of vehicles in 1975/76 out of its accumulated earnings.
On-Financing
4.22      IDA's contribution for coffee research (US$0.2 million) would be
passed on to IAR as a grant. Similarly, IDA's contribution for road
construction, preparation of follow-up projects, and the establishment
of PIU headquarters (US$3.2 million) would be passed on to NCB as a grant,
for use by PIU.
4.23      IDA's contribution for washing station construction or modification
(US$2.8 million) would be made available to AIDB, acting as agent of IEG,
for on-lending to processors, under a Project Financing Agreement described
in paragraph 5.08.
E. Procurement
4.24      Contracts estimated to cost over US$20,000 for road construction
machinery and equipment (US$0.8 million CIF value, including contingencies),
machinery and equipment for coffee washing stations (US$1.3 million) and
personnel-carrying vehicles for PIU (US$0.1 million) would be let following
international competitive bidding procedures organized by PIU. Contracts
estimated to cost between US$4,000 and US$20,000 for machinery, equipment
and vehicles, and all contracts for the construction of PIU washing stations,
for roads in Kaffa and for bridges and river crossings in Sidamo would be
let following local competitive bidding because they would be too small to
interest foreign bidders. Contracts estimated to cost between US$1,000 and
US$4,000 would be let after at least three quotations had been obtained and
evaluated. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the



- 14 -
above procurement procedures would be followed and that draft bidding
documents, proposed contract awards, etc., for contracts expected to exceed
US$?50,000 in value, would be sent to IDA for prior approval.
F. Disbursement
4.25      The IDA credit would be disbursed against:
(a) 100% of AIDB disbursements of loans under the project
for washing station construction or modification, net
of import duties;
(b)  70% of the costs (if any) of locally procured machinery,
vehicles and equipment for road construction and other
vehicles; and
(c) 100% of the costs, net of import duties and land purchase,
of directly imported machinery, vehicles and equipment;
of other road construction items; of PIU headquarter
establishment; and of research.
Disbursement requests would be accompanied by full import documentation
for items procured under international competitive bidding procedures and by
certificates of disbursements or expenditures from AIDB, PIU or IAR, as
appropriate, for other items. A schedule of estimated disbursements, by
quarters, is given in Annex 10.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
5.01      An operationally independent unit of the National Coffee Board
(NCB), to be known as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), would be set
up to construct and initially operate the coffee washing stations in the
Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project and to stimulate the development of primary
cooperative societies of coffee farmers to take over these stations in due
course. Washing stations under the other sub-projects would be managed by
existing enterprises and cooperatives, to which PIU would provide technical
services. PIU would also carry out the road construction program and
prepare follow-up projects. Funds for washing station construction would
be chaninelled through the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB), as discussed in para 5.08.
B. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
5.02      PIU would be established by a resolution of the NCB Board as a
unit operationally independent from NCB's existing staff organization (headed



- 15 -
by its Executive Secretary), so as to have an adequate separation between
NCB's regulatory and promotional activities and PIU's commercial operations.
As NCB does not presently have the powers to engage in commercial operations,
such a resolution cannot be adopted until Parliament approves additional
powers for NCB. The granting of these additional powers (which IEG intends
to seek at the same time as it seeks Parliamentary ratification of the
Development Credit Agreement), and the adoption of the NCB resolution in a
form satisfactory to IDA, would be conditions of effectiveness of the IDA
credit.
5.03      PIU would be headed by a chief executive and administrative officer
(Project Manager) responsible to the NCB Board and, between meetings of the
Board, to an Executive Committee. The NCB Board comprises the Ministers
of Commerce and Industry (Chairman), Agriculture, Finance and Interior; the
President of the Addis Ababa Chamber of Commerce; and the Managing Director
of AIDB. The Executive Committee - which would be established by the NCB
Board resolution establishing PIU - would comprise a representative of each
member of the NCB Board, as well as NCB's Executive Secretary and the Head
of the Cooperatives Department in the Ministry of National Community Develop-
ment and Social Affairs. In addition to providing PIU with overall policy
guidance and control between meetings of NCB's Board, the Executive Committee
would act as coordinator of other ministries and governmental agencies in-
volved in the project. As an additional coordination measure, the Project
Manager would be authorized to appoint local advisory committees in each of
the project areas.
5.04      Day-to-day management of PIU would be in the hands of the Project
MIanager. He would be in charge of four specialized Sections and the team
preparing follow-up projects. The Coffee Development Section would
design, construct and operate the PIU washing stations and experimental
drier; carry out the survey of existing private washing stations in Sidamo;
assist the Kaffa cooperatives and estate owners in selecting sites and
equipment; and appraise the technical features of all non-PIU washing
station construction and modifications to be financed by AIDB under the
project.  The Roads Development Section would survey all roads; construct
those in Sidamo; and supervise their construction by contractors in Kaffa.
In consultation with the Cooperatives Department in the Ministry of National
Community Development, the Cooperative Development Section would stimulate
the formation of primary cooperative societies of coffee farmers and train
their staffs so that they can take over PIU's washing stations. The
Accounts and Administration Section would keep PIU's accounts and arrange
for the sale of its coffee to exporters. Further details of PIU are
given in Annex 8.
5.05      Due to the shortage of experienced and qualified managers and
technicians in Ethiopia, it is likely that the Project Manager, the heads
of all Sections except the Cooperative Development Section, and three
other technicians (Annex 8, para 17) would need to be recruited abroad.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the qualifications
and experience of all appointees to the posts of Project Manager and Section
heads and to all professional posts in the project preparation team would



- 16 -
be subject to prior IDA approval. Appointment of the Project Manager and
the heads of all Sections would be a condition of effectiveness of the
IDS, credit.
5.06      It is IEG's intention that, as soon as suitable cooperatives
of coffee farmers can be promoted and established for this purpose in the
Sidamo project area, PIU's washing stations would be transferred to them.
In its operation of its washing stations, PIU will therefore follow
policies and procedures designed to facilitate this objective, including
the keeping of separate accounts for each such washing station. It is
expected that it will take some years to promote and develop these
cooperatives to the point where they will be capable of handling all as-
pects of technical operation, marketing and financial control; and PIU
will probably need to follow a staged approach whereby responsibility is
gradually transferred to the extent made possible by the standard of
management available to each individual cooperative. Thus, a first stage
might be for a primary cooperative society of farmers delivering crop to
a particular washing station to receive payment for the processed coffee
en bloc and to assume responsibility for individual payments to its
farmer members; while PIU retained ownership, responsibility for station
rnianagement and marketing, and debt repayment obligations to AIDB. The
final stage might be for a primary cooperative society to assume ownership
and management of the individual washing station, and for a union of such
cooperatives to take over the marketing and, with AIDB's prior approval,
any outstanding debts to AIDB which might remain on the station involved.
A statement of PIU operating policies and procedures would be adopted by a
resolution of the NCB Board, which would undoubtedly need modification from
time to time in the light of actual experience with the development of the
cooperative movement. The adoption of such a resolution, in a form satis-
factory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit;
and assurances have been obtained during negotiations that any modifica:ions
to it would be subject to IDA's prior approval.
C. The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
5.07      The state-owned AIDB would be the credit channel for the project.
As indicated in para 2.11, AIDB is a recently established institution.
However, it already has well defined investment policies contained in an
AIDB Board statement described in Annex 4 and which provide a generally
sound basis for project financing. AIDB's portfolio of loans and shares
taken over from predecessor institutions has now been conservatively valued.
AIDB's organization and staffing appear to be sound, although some
strengthening will probably be necessary before AIDB can expand its opera-
tions to any great degree. AIDB's first year of operations shows a good
beginning. IDA is in the process of appraising AIDB for a credit to
support AIDB's medium- and long-term investment program in the industrial
and agricultural sectors. However, since negotiations for this proposed
AIDB project have not yet taken place and several issues have not yet been
resolved, it has been agreed during negotiations for the coffee processing
project that, while all IDA funds for its credit aspects would be channelled
through AIDB, those funds would be handled by AIDB in the name, and on behalf



- 17 -
of IEG, along the lines of AIDB's involvement in the Addis Ababa Dairy
Development Project approved in August 1971.
5.08      IEG would open an account (the Project Account) in the National
Bank of Ethiopia in AIDB's name, and through which all credit transactions
under the project would take place. In particular, IEG would deposit into
the Project Account, quarterly in advance, such amounts as are estimated
by AIDB to be required to allow AIDB to make disbursements on its loans under
the project in the quarter immediately following. The terms and conditions
of these loans are described in the following paragraphs.  IEG would bear
the credit risk on the subsidiary loan which AIDB will make to IEG's National
Coffee Board for use by PIU for the construction of its washing stations (para
5.10). However, in respect of AIDB loans to other private and cooperative
owners of washing stations (wlhere AIDB is required to appraise the potential
borrowers - para 5.11), AIDB would take the credit risk. AIDB would finance
its appraisal and supervision costs, and would cover its credit risk under
the project by retaining the excess over 7-1/4% of all interest payments made
by its borrowers (including NCB), giving AIDB a spread of at least 2-1/4%.
These arrangements would be incorporated into a Project Financing Agreement,
execution of which, in a form satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition
of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
5.09      A senior AIDB officer, whose qualifications and experience for
the post would be satisfactory to IDA, would supervise all lending opera-
tions under the project under the general supervision of AIDB's Managing
Director. His appointment would be a condition of effectiveness of the
IDA credit.
5.10      AIDB would make a loan to NCB, for use by PIU, for washing station
construction under the Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project, based on this appraisal
report and such other investigations as AIDB might deem necessary. Since
PIU would be a new organization, without equity, no down-payment would be
required and interest would be paid out of the proceeds of the loan during
the construction period (but not longer than for 4 years). The term of
the NCB loan would be 15 years, including a grace period of 4 years; in-
terest would be not less than 9-1/2% but not more than 12% per annum.
Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between AIDB and NCB, in a
form satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
credit. AIDB would keep in constant contact with PIU's performance under
the NCB subsidiary loan agreement since the Managing Director is a member
of the NCB Board and would nominate a representative on the Executive
Committee (para 5.03).
5.11      In providing credit to washing station owners under the Sidamo
Private Sector and both Kaffa Subprojects, AIDB would rely on PIU for
teclhnical appraisal of loan applications. AIDB's own staff would determine
the financial prospects and managerial capabilities of potential borrowers.
Any loan under these sub-projects which would bring the cumulative amount
comiitted to a single borrower above E$100,000 (US$43,000) would be subject
to prior IDA approval. Loans for constructing complete washing stations
would average 70% of total costs (excluding interest during construction),
and would have a term averaging 10 years, including one year of grace.



- 18 -
Loan.s for washing station modification would average 50% of total costs
(excluding interest during construction), and would have a term averaging
3 years, including one year of grace. All loans would carry annual interest
of not less than 9-1/2% and not more than 12%. AIDB would enter into a
loan agreement with each borrower, the form of which would be satisfactory
to IDA. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that AIDB would
follow these policies and procedures, as described in more detail in Annex 11.
5.12      Assurances have also been obtained that AIDB would provide its
borrowers under the project (including NCB on behalf of PIU, but excluding
estates) with short-term finance for crop purchase and, in the case of NCB
on behalf of PIU, for washing station operating costs; or would arrange for
coTmercial banks to provide it, with AIDB's guarantee where necessary.
D. NCB Licensing
5.13      Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that NCB would
promptly issue licenses for all facilities to be constructed under the
project; that, to avoid repetitions of problems that have already arisen
from indiscriminate licensing (para 3.05), NCB would not issue a license
for any coffee washing station within 5 km of the site of a station to be
constructed or modified under the project, unless specific demand for addi-
tional capacity had been established; that NCB would withdraw operating
licenses from stations that failed to make suitable arrangements for hygienic
pulp and effluent disposal within one year of recommendations made as a
resLlt of the proposed survey in Sidamo (para 4.11); that NCB would publish
its requirements for the granting and renewal of licenses for the operation
of coffee washing stations, including provisions requiring maintenance of
quality control standards and the disposal of pulp and effluent with
reasonable regard to ecological and environmental effects; and that,
whenever it should find it necessary to deny an application for, or with-
draw, a license to operate a coffee washing station, NCB shall give its
reasons therefor in writing.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.14      NCB's accounts are audited by Russell and Company and AIDB's
accounts by Mann Judd and Company, both international firms of good standing
with branches in Addis Ababa. IAR's accounts have to be submiitted to the
Auditor-General. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that
AIDE, NCB and IAR would have their accounts (including, in NCB's case, those
of l'IU) audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; that AIDB
and NCB would forward to IDA, within four months of the close of their
respective financial years, certified copies of their respective audited
financial statements and of the auditors' reports thereon; and that IAR would
forward to IDA, within four months of the close of its financial year, copies
of i.ts audited financial statements.



- 19 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      The 100 new washing stations to be constructed under the project
would each produce 100 tons of washed coffee per annum by full development
in 1977/78. The net effect of rebuilding and modifying private sector
stations in Sidamo, and cancelling some operating licenses, would be an
annual increase in washed coffee production of about 1,000 tons. Increased
production of washed coffee from the project would thus be some 11,000
tons/annum by 1977/78, by which time overall Ethiopian production of washed
coffee is expected to reach some 27,000 tons (compared to about 10,000 tons
in 1969/70). Further details are given in Annex 12. Production of unwashed
coffee would be correspondingly reduced, except that, in Sidamo Province,
the proposed road network is likely to bring forth some additional produc-
tion, perhaps amounting to 1,000 tons/annum by 1980/81, representing about
2% of current production in that province.
B. Markets and Prices
6.02      A brief note on the world outlook for coffee is presented in
Annex 13. In recent years, coffee prices on world markets have experienced
sharp fluctuations. Prices began to rise substantially in late 1969 as
the market reacted to widespread frost damage in the dominant Brazilian
crop in July 1969. However, prices declined again in late 1970 as Brazilian
output increased due to favorable weather conditions.  On the basis of an
analysis of future supply-demand relationships (discussed in Annex 13),
coffee prices may be expected to decline over the long-term from the high
levels of 1970; but they are expected to keep somewhat above the average
prices obtained in 1969.
6.03      Ethiopia's traditional market for its unwashed coffee - the US,
whichi takes 70-80% of total exports - is not a major market for its washed
coffee, since the US demand for this type of coffee is generally satisfied
from Central America. Ethiopian washed coffee exports resulting from the
project would need to be marketed in the Federal Republic of Germany and
other major markets for quality washed coffee. This should not present
undue difficulty in view of the generally high quality of Ethiopian washed
coffee, demand for which is higlh. Exports to date - principally to
Germany - have been restricted by lack of production rather than marketing
constraints, and Ethiopian washed coffee production has been actively en-
couraged by exporters with close German ties - to the point of their making
finance available to processors. Further details on markets and prices
for Ethiopian export coffees are given below and in Annex 14.
6.04      The financial and economic results of the project are particularly
sensitive to the differential in prices between Ethiopian washed and unwashed
coffees, as indicated in paragraphs 6.07 and 7.02, respectively. A prob-
ability analysis has therefore been carried out based on probabilities



- 20 -
assigned to the future prices for these coffees, as explained in detail in
Annex 14. The principal projections used for illustrating the financial
results of the project are as follows:
Washed coffee: Average prices declining from about
51 US cents/lb, CIF New York, in 1972/73, to about 45
US cents/lb by 1978/79 (i.e. in line with projected prices
for Kenyan washed coffee and about 1 US cent/lb above
projected prices for Colombian washed coffee).
Unwashed coffee: Average prices declining from about 43
US cents/lb, CIF New York, in 1972/73, to about 38 US
cents/lb by 1978/79 (i.e. about 2 US cents/lb below proj-
ected prices for Brazilian Santos 4 unwashed coffee).
Since the above projections were made, there has been a general currency
re-alignment. The Ethiopian dollar has retained its value in terms of
gold while it is proposed to devalue the US dollar. Should the price
differential between washed and unwashed coffee expressed in US dollar
equivalent follow the proposed value of the US dollar (a decline of some 8%
in terms of the Ethiopian dollar), the financial and economic rates of
return mentioned in paragraphs 6.06 and 7.02 respectively would drop by about
2-3%. However, since the main market for Ethiopian washed coffee is Germany
(and therefore the price of washed coffee in Ethiopian dollar equivalent
will probably increase because of the revaluation of the German mark) while
the! main market for unwashed coffee is the USA (and therefore the price of
unwashed coffee in Ethiopian dollar equivalent will probably decline because
of the proposed devaluation of the US dollar), it is possible, although other
sellers may be attracted to the German market, that the price differential
between washed and unwashed coffee and the resulting rates of return will
increase. The rates of return would therefore be at least equal to and could
be higher than those mentioned in paragraphs 6.06 and 7.02.
6.C05     The switch in annual production of some 11,000 tons from unwashed
to washed arabica, and the possible overall annual increase in production
of some 1,000 tons, are unlikely to have any measurable effect on Ethiopia's
ability to comply with its obligations under the International Coffee
Agreement, nor on world market prices for these products, as they represent
less than 1% of world trade in either product. The International Coffee
Organization has been consulted on this matter and a statement of its views
is included in Annex 14.
C. Financial Results
Washing Station Owners
6.06      To encourage farmers to supply their coffee to project washing
stations, it will be necessary for washing station owners to compensate
farmers for the additional costs of transporting the heavier ripe coffee
cherries to the station and to pay them a premium over the price they
would otherwise receive for their traditional dried coffee. In the case
of PTU and the Sidamo private merchants it has been assumed that this



- 21 -
premium would be about E$40/ton. In the case of the well established
Kaffa cooperatives, where it is the practice for most of the headquarters'
management to be carried out by farmer members at no cost to the cooperatives,
a premium of E$100/ton has been assumed. Kaffa estate owners, of course,
retain all the increased value of their own crop. Assuming these various
premiums and the principal price projections made in para 6.04, financial
rates of return on the proposed investments are about 21% for PIU, 17%
for the Sidamo private merchants and Kaffa cooperatives, and 24% for the
Kaffa estates. Should PIU choose to double the premium paid to farmers
to E$80/ton, the rate of return drops to about 15%. If the Sidamo private
merchant considers his own salary drawn to compensate him for supervising
the operation of his own washing station as part of his benefit, the rate
of return rises to about 25%. Cash flow projections are given in Annex 15
and show reasonable returns after taxes and debt service obligations.
6.07      In accordance with the probabilities assigned to the principal
and other price projections (para 6.04 and Annex 14, Chart 1), there is only
about a 10% probability that the differential between washed and unwashed
coffee would be insufficient to enable washing station owners to meet their
debt service obligations.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The principal benefit from the project is the rapid increase in
foreign exchange earnings, expected to average about E$6.0 million (US$2.6
million) by full development in 1977/78. The project would also provide
reasonable investment opportunities for washing station owners in the
private and cooperative sectors and modest increases in cash incomes for
some 33,000 farm families. During the operational phase, an additional 200
permanent and 1,000 seasonal workers would be employed, after making allowance
for reductions in employment at existing hulleries. The improved road
network and establishment of a cooperative structure in Sidamo Province
should permit improvements in Government services generally, and provide
opportunities for further investments. The switch of 11,000 tons of coffee
from the traditional dry process should relieve pressure on presently
overloaded, and often antiquated, hulleries, perhaps leading to an improve-
ment in the quality of dry processed coffee.
7.02      Economic rate of return calculations, shown in Annex 16, only
take into account the direct benefits of increased FOB value of washed over
unwashed coffee and of the possible 1,000 ton/annum increase in overall
production (para 6.01). Unskilled labor has been costed at going rates of
E$1.00/day during most of the year, and E$1.25/day for seasonal labor.
The opportunity cost of land used by washing stations has been taken as its
rental value of about E$600/ha. Assuming the probabilities of various
world market coffee prices for Ethiopian washed and unwashed coffees as
indicated in paragraph 6.04 and Annex 14, Chart 1, and a 50% probability
that the overall increase in production referred to above would occur, the
economic rates of return on the sub-projects are as follows:



- 22 -
Probability that
Mean Rate         Rate of Return
Sub-Project            of Return        would exceed 10%
(M)                 (M)
Sidamo Cooperative           17                   85
Sidamo Private Sector        21                   95
Kaffa Cooperative            18                   95
Kaffa Estate                 21                   95
The! relationship between the various price assumptions and rates of return
for the Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project is shown graphically in Charts 1,
2 and 3 to Annex 16. The rates of return for the cooperative sub-projects
are generally lower than for the private sector because only the former
involve investments in road construction.  The relatively high overheads for
the Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project, compared to other sub-projects, are largely
offset by the increase in production expected to be brought about by road
coristruction in that area.
7.03      Although there are some risks that price differentials may not
be sufficient to provide satisfactory economic rates of return, they are
low compared to the mean rates of return expected.  Its relatively
large and rapid foreign exchange earnings, and the opportunity to economi-
cally construct a feeder road and cooperative network in Sidamo Province,
make this a high priority project in line with IEG's strategy for agricul-
tural development.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
prLncipal points:
(a) arrangements for road maintenance and post-project
disposal of road construction machinery (para 4.07);
(b) appointments to certain PIU senior management and
technical posts (para 5.05);
(c) policies and procedures to be followed by AIDB and
provision of working capital to borrowers (paras 5.09
thru 5.12); and
(d) NCB licensing of washing stations (para 5.13).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be that;
(a) PIU had been established in a form satisfactory to
IDA (para 5.02);



- 23 -
(b) the Project Manager and heads of all Sections of PIU
had been appointed, all with qualifications and ex-
perience satisfactory to IDA (para 5.05);
(c) NCB's Board had adopted a resolution, in a form
satisfactory to IDA, concerning PIU's operating
policies and procedures (para 5.06);
(d) a Project Financing Agreement, in a form satisfactory
to IDA, had been executed, covering provision of funds
to AIDB for making loans under the project (para 5.08);
(e) AIDB had appointed a senior officer, with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA, to supervise lending
operations under the project (para 5.09); and
(f)  a subsidiary loan agreement between AIDB and NCB, in a
form satisfactory to IDA, had been executed (para 5.10).
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$6.3 million.
December 28, 1971






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Coffee Types and Processing Methods
Introduction
1.        Most of the world's commercially exploited coffee belongs to one
of two species (coffea arabica and coffea robusta), which are usually pro-
cessed in one of two basic methods (wet process or dry process) to produce
clean, unroasted coffee beans -- "green" beans. The green beans are then
roasted and ground or further processed into "instant" (or soluble) coffees.
Exports from producing countries are usually in the form of green beans,
and this Annex describes processing methods only to that stage. However, a
growing, but still insignificant, amount of coffee is now being exported in
further processed form -- usually as freeze-dried instant coffee.
Coffee Species
2.        Arabica and robusta coffees account for about 99% of the coffee
being commercially exploited.  Arabica is grown at higher altitudes than
robusta, is more subject to pests and diseases, is generally considered a
"better" coffee and traditionally commands a higher price. Robusta is a
stronger tree, contains little acidity, and has a good "body" to its taste;
its high solids content makes it ideal for instant coffees. The various
coffee types, produced in various countries by various methods, are custom-
arily blended together, before reaching the consumer, in different propor-
tions for purposes of taste and price, often according to national drinking
habits.
3.        Arabica coffee grows wild in Ethiopia and arabicas in other
countries are thought to have been brought from there. In Africa, it is
now grown in Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania, Rwanda and Burundi, which together
produce for export about 4 million bags per annum 1/. However, it is prin-
cipally grown in Central and South America from which some 36 million bags
are exported per annum, led by Brazil with about 20 million bags and
Colombia with about 7 million bags. Robusta grows wild in forests across
the equatorial belt of Africa. Commercial production did not start until
the 1920's (Indonesia and Angola), and its production and trade has only
been quantified and statistically separated from arabicas since the late
1940's. Principal producers are in Africa, with exports of 16 million bags
per annum, led by the Ivory Coast (3 million bags), Portuguese possessions
(almost 3 million bags) and Uganda (about 2-1/2 million bags). Indonesia
is mainly a robusta producer (at about 1-1/2 million bags). India grows
both arabica and robusta (about 1/2 million bags).
1/   A "bag" of coffee is the standard measure, containing 60 kg of green
beans.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Processing Methods
4.        The object of processing is to separate the green coffee beans
frorn the ripe cherry which is harvested from the coffee tree.  A coffee
cherry generally contains 2 coffee beans, eachi covered by a parchment
skin, and surrounded by a layer of pulp (mucilage) beneath the outer cherry
skin.  The cnerry's moisture content, ripe on the tree, is about 65%.  The
final green bean should have a moisture content of about 10%.
5.        The Dry Process.  The whole cherry is dried, in the sun or arti-
ficially, and the outer and parchment skins are removed in one milling
process, usually called hulling. Drying can be done on-farm or centrally,
but hulling is usually done in a central hullery. Coffee produced by the
dry process -- the process mainly used in Brazil and Ethiopia -- is usual-
ly .iown as unwashed coffee to distinguish it from coffee produced by the
wet or washing process. In East Africa and Ethiopia unwashed coffee is
also known as hard coffee or mbuni.
6.        The Wet Process.  The ripe cherry is put through a simple machine
(pulper) which mechanically separates the outer skin and mucli of the pulp
from the beans with the aid of running water. The remaining mucilage is
brokeln down by fermentation (sometimes under water, sometimes not), over
one or two days, before being washed off with water. The resulting bean --
still enclosed in its parchment skin and thus often known as parchmenit
coffee -- is then dried, either in the sun or artificially.  The factory
where this process is carried out is known as a washing station or
pulpery 1/. In a second process, often much later, the parchment skin is
removed by a milling process, known as curing or peeling and polishing.
Coffee produced by the wet process -- the process mainly used in Colombia,
Central America and Kenya and increasingly being used in Ethliopia -- is
known as washed coffee.
7.        There is a comparatively rare third processing method -- the sun
fermenting or semi-waslhing process -- whichi is a combination of the wet and
dry processes described above. It is confined mainly to Rwanda and Burundi,
with some experimentation now being undertaken in Ethiiopia. Ripe clherry
is pulped, as in the washing process, but usually using less water.  The
resultant mucilage-coated beans are then fermented and dried in the sun,
withiout being waslhed, producing a parchment-like coffee. As with true
parchments, the coffee is then cured to produce the green bean.  Coffee
produced in this manner is usually known as sun-fermented or semi-washied
coffee.
8.        The process used in any particular instance depends on a variety
of factors:
1/   A typical washing station, such as would be constructed under the
project, is described in more detail in Annex 7.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
water availability;
sunshine reliability during the processing season;
suitability of the particular coffee.  For example,
wasning seems to enhance the quality of certain
Ethiopian coffees, such as those from the proposed
project areas, while it seems to add little to
coffees from some other areas of Ethiopia;
availability of feeder roads, since washing stations
must necessarily be near the coffee farms, if the ripe
cherry is not to spoil before processing can begin;
availability of finance for washing station construc-
tion.
December 13, 1971






ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Quality Deficiencies in Production of Ethiopian Unwashed Coffee
1.        It would not be an exaggeration to state that, although Ethiopia
grows some of the best coffea arabica in the world, it exports some of the
world's worst unwashed arabica coffee. This is principally due to various
maltreatments that the coffee receives at various stages of its harvesting,
processing, storing and handling, as described briefly below.
On-farm
2.        The best coffee results from coffee cherries harvested when red
ripe, but not over-ripe nor green. Particularly in the case of forest
coffee -- which grows wild under natural forest cover and provides some
60-65% of total Ethiopian coffee production -- there is a tendency to har-
vest all the cherries from the coffee trees in one, or at most two, pick-
ings. The reasons are the lack of communications, low yield per tree and
low density of coffee trees per hectare, all of which make it uneconomic
to pick more often. The result is that all available cherries are removed
from a tree at the same time, which invariably means a mixture of over-
ripe, ripe and under-ripe cherries. Since the majority of coffee is har-
vested in this way, it has become the tradition to harvest it in a similar
fasliion even where the economic constraints do not apply; for it is diffi-
cult to distinguish good coffee from bad coffee, once it is dried and until
it is roasted and tasted, so that traders tend to offer a standard price
for all dried coffees, and to mix them together before sale to exporters.
3.        Coupled with the above, harvesters often gather fallen cherries
from the ground, where they pick up taints and molds and have often de-
teriorated microbiologically.
4.        Wlen drying coffee in tne sun, farmers sometimes lay out the
coffee on the ground, where it can pick up more taints. (This practice
tias been officially denounced and considerable success has been achieved
by the local administrations and NCB in persuading farmers to dry their
coffee on mats.)
5.        Incomplete Drying.  Witlh only visual means of measuring moisture,
and probably in ignorance of the importance of proper drying, farmers
sometimes pack half-dried cherry in bags and transport it on mules, some-
times for many days, to the nearest factory or market for sale. Secondary
fermentations result with consequent deterioration of quality.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        Storage.  In the absence of banks or credit unions many farmers
store their dried coffee on-farm for extended periods, taking enough out
of store to provide cash when required. The cherry can be stored for
months, often under-dried, in mud huts or even underground.
Hulling
7.        Coffee is often hulled at too high a moisture content, because
few hulleries have any means of artificially drying coffee purchased from
farmers or, indeed, of even measuring moisture. Machinery is often anti-
quated and over-worked. Storage after hulling is often poor. This stan-
dard of hulling tends to cause even further deterioration in the low quality
coffee purchased from farmers. Moreover, the antiquated hulling practices
in the provinces result in the need for re-cleaning and double-handling in
Addis Ababa by exporters.
December 13, 1971



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
The National Coffee Board
Estabi.shment and Duties
1.        The National Coffee Board (NCB) was established as an autonomous
agency of the Imperial Ethiopian Government (IEG) by Decree No. 28 of 1957,
later slightly modified by Parliament and reissued as Proclamation No. 178
of 1961.  Its principal duties were defined as:
--   to enforce coffee cleaning and grading regulations,
originally issued by IEG in 1952, and to take such
other steps, in consultation with the coffee industry,
as might be necessary to improve the quality of
Ethiopia's export coffee;
--   to make recommendations to the Minister of Commerce
on coffee legislation;
--   to take steps to improve cultivation and harvesting
methods, by educational and experimental schemes,
publicity, or otherwise;
=-   to collect and publish such market information and
statistics as may be useful to the coffee trade; and
--   to stimulate cooperative production and marketing of
coffee.
Since 1962, NCB has also been responsible for ensuring that Ethiopia's ob-
ligations under the International Coffee Agreement are fulfilled.
Powers and Regulations
2.        Proclamation No. 178 gives NCB all the powers of a corporation
to own assets, borrow money, employ staff, carry out research, operate and
control markets and establish a coffee exchange in Addis Ababa. The Proc-
lamation also makes provision for the Council of Ministers to empower NCB,
under exceptional circumstances, to enter directly into coffee trading
through buying, cleaning, decorticating, processing, storing, selling and
exporting coffee, and through lending against coffee warehouse receipts is-
sued by NCB. These powers were granted to NCB for one year from December,
1966 -- following an undershipment of Ethiopia's quota by 14% in 1965/66 --
but they were not renewed.



ANNEX 3
Page  2
3.        Regulations have been issued concerning:
-- cleaning and grading of coffee for export. These regu-
lations limit moisture content of all export coffee to
11-1/2%, define 8 quality grades in terms of the number
of defects in a sample, require statements of origin and
forbid the export of coffee unless it is free of mould,
noxious fermentation and thie effects thiereof.
--   licensing.  All exporters, local traders, pulping or drying
station operators, hullers, cleaners, graders, warelhouse-
men and vehicle operators wiho wish to handle coffee (otlher
than retailers and growers) must be licensed annually with
NCB.
-- lhandling of coffee. Growers are required to maintain their
coffee trees and harvest only ripe chierries; and are for-
bidden to dry coffee on the ground, use artificial heat
for drying without NCB's approval or store coffee under
sub-standard conditions.
--   inspectors.  NCB may appoint inspectors with powers to
enter premises of all NCB license holders, and may direct
that any coffee be delivered to NCB for inspection or
treatment.
4.        Draft legislation is now under consideration whicih would give
NCI, additional powers, including the powers to control marketing anid prices
of coffee. Separate additional legislation would be required to allow the
proposed NCB Project Implementationi Unit to market the coffee processed iTl
project waslhing station, as described further in Annex A.
Board
5.        The Board presently consists of six members appointed by the Em-
peror upon the recommendation of the Ministers of Commerce and Industry,
Agriculture, Finance and Interior; the President of the Chamber of Commerce
of Addis Ababa autd tihe !1anagi4ng Director of the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank.
Organization and Staffing
6.        Under the Executive Secretary, there are currently 5 Departments
withl 135 staff:  Administration (with 28); Marketing, Research, Inspection
and Classification (with 45); Coffee Production (with 56); Planning (with
4); and Public Relations (with 2).
7.        NCB headquarters are in Addis Ababa, with regional inspection
centers at Jimma, Gimbi, Lekempti, Mattu, Awasa and Dire Dawa.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Financing
8.        NCB's operations are financed by a cess, initially set in 1958
at E$1.00 per quintal (100 kg) of coffee exported from Ethiopia. It now
stands at E$3.00 per quintal, out of which the NCB pays a levy to the Inter-
national Coffee Organization's Coffee Diversification Fund amounting to
UtSSO.60 (E$1.40) per bag of 60 kg exported from Ethiopia, over and above
tile first 100,000 bags exported each year. Consideration is now being
given to raising the cess to E$3.00 per bag of 60 kg, instead of per quintal
of 100 kg, which higher rate has been assumed in calculations in this re-
port. This cess is adequate to finance all NCB recurrent expenditures
and to allow it to make donations to IAR's Jimma Coffee Research Station.
Present Activities and Possibilities for Improvements
Inspection and Grading for Export
9.        All unwashed coffee for export is inspected and graded in Addis
Ababa immediately prior to shipment to the ports of Djibouti or Assab, to
see that it meets the minimum export requirements of the coffee cleaning
anid grading regulations (para 3). At present, only the first 5 of the 8
designated grades are allowed to be exported. About 90% of all exports
of unwasthed coffee fall in the lowest permissible grade -- Grade 5: 46 to
100 defects -- with almost all the remainder in the next highest grade --
Grade 4: 26 to 45 defects 1/. A sample of each export shipment is taken
by NCB and the defects are physically counted. Compliance with the regula-
tions concerning moisture content (maximum: 11.5%) and freedom from mold
and noxious fermentation is tested by sight only. Washied coffee is cur-
rently not inspected or graded, since it would normally contain few, if
any, defects.
10.       This inspection and grading system could be improved in a number
of ways, some of whicli could be implemented immediately, while others would
have to wait on research results:
a.   Grading by defect count and moisture content alone is not
an adequate measure of coffee quality. Other factors, such
as liquor, homogeneity of bean size and appearance, are more
important. Although NCB has a coffee liquoring laboratory,
it lhas no qualified staff to operate it; and the heteroge-
neity of coffee beans in Ethiopia is probably greater than
elsewhere since Ethiopia is considered to be the center of
origin of arabica coffee and many different types are
hiarvested, particularly from the wild, forest coffee.
Research into an improved grading system would be carried
out under the project and liquoring tests would be intro-
duced as part of the auctioneer's functions.
1/   A "defect" is defined in the Regulations.  Examples are:  each black
bean counts as 1 defect; a piece of wood up to approximately 20 mm in
length counts as 10 defects.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
b.   The defect count system of grading needs to be tightened
up as there are consistent reports of coffee exports below
Grade 5. One means of doing this would be to have a week-
ly cross-check of a random selection of samples taken during
the preceding week, to be selected and counted under the
personal supervision of a senior NCB official.
c.   Moisture content limits should be reduced from a maximum
of 11.5% to a maximum of 10%, and checking stations should
be equipped with moisture meters.
d.   A start should be made to inspect and grade washed coffee
exports, and minimum standards should be laid down. (In
terms of the present grading system, probably nothing below
Grade 2 should be allowed to be exported, with a maximum
moisture content of 10%.) While the present small produc-
tion of washed coffee, under careful scrutiny of exporters
with close and continuous ties with importers overseas,
would probably not justify NCB inspection, allowance must
be made for rapidly increased production of washed coffee,
and a resultant tendency to lowering standards.
Licensing
11.       Although NCB's powers to grant (or revoke) licenses on an annual
basis give it considerable opportunities to effect improvements in the in-
dustry, they are not used to maximum advantage. Licenses have generally
been granted on request and possible revocation is seldom used as a regula-
tory tool.  There are no published criteria for the granting of licenses or
for their revocation, these matters being at the entire discretion of the
NCB. One recent result of this policy has been the largely uncontrolled
development of coffee washing stations in Sidamo Province, leading to
severe overcrowding and river pollution.
12.       Apart from using the license system to prevent sub-standard con-
struction of new processing facilities and to induce owners of out-dated
facilities to modernize them, it could also be used as a tool to improve
operatin ng procedures.  For example, washing station owners who consistently
accept unripe or over-ripe cherry for processing or dispose of station ef-
fluent directly into rivers should be subject to license revocation.
13.       The licensing system could be improved by:
a.   increasing inspection staff to appraise all license ap-
licants and to monitor existing license holders;
b.   publication of reasonably specific criteria to be applied
in appraising license applications, both initial and for
annual renewal; and



ANNEX 3
Page 5
c.   institution of a regular system for granting licenses
and appealing decisions. Decisions to grant, deny or
revoke licenses should initially be taken at the provin-
cial level (or by a designated officer in headquarters
for Addis Ababa-based enterprises), with provision for
appeal in writing to the NCB Executive Secretary, who
should be obliged to give his reasons, in writing, for
upholding or denying the appeal.
Extension Services
14.       There are grave deficiencies in existing harvesting and handling
methods, as described in Annex 2, and it is NCB's duty to correct these
wherever possible, through its extension services. For the reasons ex-
plained in that Annex, it is not surprising that NCB has had little success
in this field to date in regard to unwashed coffee. The general low level
of literacy (over 95% of coffee farmers are considered illiterate), lack
of communications and the economics of forest coffee harvesting all militate
against rapid progress in quality improvements for unwashed Ethiopian cof-
fee. One means for reaching the farmer, whicih has not been sufficiently
exploited to date, is through the cooperative movement. The decree setting
up NCB gives it specific responsibility for stimulating coffee cooperatives,
and it may be advisable for NCB to devote more of its attention to this as-
pect.
15.       Hlowever, there is no doubt that the most effective way of deploy-
ing such extension staff as NCB now has is on the processing side, as NCB
is now doing. But it is essential that these staff are better trained in
productioni methods so that they can effectively advise hullery and pulping
station owners. Arrangements should be made for senior NCB extension staff
to visit othler producing countries where standards are higher and where
modern techniques for the dry process have been introduced.
16.       The introduction of washing stations on a sizable scale gives NCB
the opportunity to make a very meaningful contribution with its extension
staff. First, washing stations can control growers' harvesting by refusing
to accept over-ripe or green cherry. Although this is also a matter wllich
can be cihecked into by NiCB's inspection staff (para 12), it should be tihe
task of the extension staff to persuade owners of the wisdom of applying
strict controls over incoming cherry. Second, the standards of processing
in thic washiing process have a much larger effect on the final quality of
tlle clean coffee thian do standards of hulling in the dry process.  So much
greater returns can be obtained by concentrating extension services on
washing station operators than elsewhere. But, again, it is essential that
the extension staff are well-trained and can give meaningful advice. Ad-
vantage sihould be taken of the technical expertise which is to be provided
under tile project, and is already available at IAR's Jimma Coffee Research
Station, to upgrade the quallty of extension staff for washing stations.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Export Control
17.       NCB currently lacks effective powers to control the marketin,Q of
coffee, except for quality aspects, which control is needed as a result of
the International Coffee Agreement (ICA). It hopes to get these powers
under proposed new legislation (para 4). In the meantime, NCB has had to
divide the quota between exporters, in as fair a manner as practicable, to
prevent over-shipment of Ethiopia's coffee in any one coffee year (October 1
through September 30) while, at the same time, trying to avoid -- or keep
to a minimum -- any under-shipment of quota. NCB has not been wholly
successful in this operation; Ethiopia under-shipped its quota in 1965/66,
1968/69 and 1969/70 by 14%, 10% and 6%, respectively, which represented
losses in foreign exchange amounting on average to about 6% of Ethiopia's
earnings from exports, although there was no particular shortage of
coffee in Ethiopia during those years.
18.       All exporting is currently carried out by exporters in the private
sector. Restricting exports to the quota has not been difficult to arrange,
since no coffee can be exported without an export license and ICO "stamps",
but applying these restrictions in a fair manner has been more problematic.
The initial system was to grant export licenses on a "first come, first
served" basis, which had obvious imperfections. The present system is a
mulLi-stage arrangement, reasonably fair (if somewhat arbitrary) and effec-
tive.  Each quarter, NCB announces to the trade the available quota for that
quarter (which is the ICA quota for that quarter, plus any carryover of
unused quota from the previous quarter, except that no carryovers are al-
lowed from one coffee year to the next). The trade then puts in its appli-
cations for that quota, with a commitment to NCB that each exporter will
export, within that quarter, the amount of the allocation that he has re-
quested. If the total applications are less than the available quota, NCB
would normally agree to the trade's proposals and allocate the quota ac-
cordingly, but allow exporters to ask for increases during the quarter (on
a "first come' first served" basis) until the quota is used up; any unused
quota, except in the last quarter, is then transferred to the following
quarter. If the total applications exceed the available quota, NCB usually
allocates the quota on a pro rata basis in proportion to applications but
sub-ject to the following:
a.   Past performance of exporters.  An exporter requesting
a substantially higher allocation than his historical
performance indicates would be reasonable suffers a
larger cut in his requested allocation.
b.   Encouragement of new exporters.
19.       Since exporters are committed to NCB to export the allocations
of quota that they have requested, the above system, in theory, should en-
sure that only minor under-shipment of quota could occur, unless exception-
al circumstances arise whereby exporters do not, over the coffee year,
apply for all the available quota. However, this discounts two important
factors which were instrumental in bringing about the shortfalls in quota
Iments indicated in paragraph 17:



ANNEX 3
Page  7
a.   Ethiopian merchants, wno bring most of the coffee from the
provinces to Addis Ababa, are notorious speculators. If
they think that by holding on to their crop a little longer
they will obtain a higher price, they refuse to sell to ex-
porters. Irrespective of any commitments the exporters may
have given to NCB, it is clearly impossible for them to
export coffee which they do not have, and NCB does not have
the powers to force merchants to sell.
b.   From time to time, and most often towards the end of a
coffee year, the world market for coffee goes dead. This
happened, for example, in the last few months of 1969/70
and exporters were left with stocks which they had com-
mitted themselves to export but for which they could find
no market at a reasonable price.
While NCB could penalize exporters in some way for entering into commitments
which they cannot keep, this does not bring about the required shipments of
coffee and is not an effective deterrent when large numbers of exporters
are involved. When small numbers of exporters are involved, penalization,
by fine or by withdrawal or restriction of exporting license, might be
helpful, but it is understood that in the past such suggestions have run
into political obstacles.
20.       NCB's suggested solution to these problems is to enter directly
into coffee trading and exporting. It feels that it could counter the
first factor mentioned in the preceding paragraph by buying up stocks
of coffee in times of plenty, which it could then release to exporters as
the need arose. This suggestion is worthy of detailed analysis but it
suffers from the usual drawbacks of such schemes -- investments required
for storage facilities, finance for buying crop and difficulties in estimating
the amounts of coffee to be bought and stored. The present lack of informa-
tion about the Ethiopian coffee economy (para 2.03 of the main report) makes
it particularly difficult to put this suggestion in proper perspective.
The results of the coffee survey to be carried out under the project should
be very useful in this respect.
21.       The second factor mentioned in paragraph 19 is more difficult to
counteract. One suggestion is that NCB itself should enter directly into
exporting, first, to take up any slack in the private sector's quota export
performance and, second, to spearhead entry into new, non-quota, markets.
It is, however, difficult to see how NCB could improve on present exporters
in terms of selling when markets generally are dead, except by selling at
very low prices or by shipping on consignment, both of which might have
negative effects on Ethiopian coffee prices generally. And there would be
a risk that the private sector's confidence would be severely affected by
such a move, which many would interpret as a first step to a state monopoly
of exporting, as has happened in other countries.



ANiNEX 3
Page 8
22.       Another possibility for minimizing under-shipments should be
examined. NCB might modify its present system of allocating quotas to ex-
porters only for a single quarter at a time, in order to encourage advance
selling. In other cofee-exporting countries, experienced and financially
strong exporters sell coffee for August/September shipment back in March/April
and do not leave such sales till June/July when financial risks are less
(for prices can then be more closely foreseen) but when the market is usually
sluggish and buyers go on holiday.
?farket Information
23. One of NCB's duties is to provide the trade with marketing information.
This duty has been largely neglected because NCB rightly feels that most,
if not all, exporters already have access to marketing information through
their own information channels. On the other hand, most of the speculation
indulged in by the traders who bring the coffee from the provinces to Addis
Ababa is based on inadequate, and often inaccurate, information as to the
state of world coffee markets. NCB could do more to temper this speculation
by regular reports on world market conditions and future prospects.
Auction
24.       The present means of bringing together the exporters and the mer-
chants who bring coffee up from the provinces is most inefficient, relying
on a number of small and generally inadequate brokers. Therefore, NCB
proposes to initiate in January 1972 a Coffee Exchange in Addis Ababa,
through which all coffee traded in Abbis Ababa would have to pass. It
is hoped that this system will be more efficient and will lead to more
information becoming publicly available about current prices. The Coffee
Exchange would include an elementary auction system which would be on a
voLuntary basis, at least initially, since a compulsory auction system
would interfere with some exporters acting as source of crop finance for
traders and processors in the provinces.  Eventually, it is hoped tlhat most
coEfee will be sold across the auction floor with a more sophisticated
grading system than presently in use (see para 10(a) above).
?5.       To make this proposed Coffee Exchange and auction trulv effective,
and to avoid double handling, it would be necessary for coffee to be
cleaned and graded in the provinces to a standard suitable for direct export,
without further cleaning and grading in Addis Ababa as is now necessary.
NC1I should use all its powers and persuasion to try and improve the quality
of coffee as it comes out of the provinces, if necessary by withdrawing
licenses from unsatisfactory provincial processors. In addition, the
auctioneer should set up a liquoring service as soon as possible to give
advice to growers and processors.
December 22, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
The Banking System and the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
1.        The State Bank of Ethiopia, created by Imperial Charter in 1942,
soon after the cessation of military operations in the country, carried out
the dual functions of central and commercial banking till the end of 1963,
when it was wound up and replaced by two new institutions, namely, the
National Bank of Ethiopia and the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia. The former
functions as the central bank of Ethiopia and the latter took over all bank-
ing business with the public previously carried out by the State Bank (ex-
cept its credit mortgage activities, which were taken over by the Mortgage
Company of Ethiopia, a fully-owned subsidiary of the Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia). The National Bank of Ethiopia exercises powers for licensing
and inspection of commercial banks. It imposes the requirements for main-
tenance of reserve balances and liquidity ratios as well as a ceiling on
interest rates on deposits accepted by the banks. It also offers rediscount
facilities to banks for eligible paper covering export of goods and advances
for agricultural production.
2.        The interest rates and ceilings on savings deposits were raised
with effect from August 1, 1970, from 5 to 6% and E$10,000 to E$20,000,
respectively. Interest rates on time deposits of 30 days to 6 months were
increased from 3 to 4%, of 6 to 12 months from 4 to 5%, and of over 6
months from 5 to 6%, with effect from the same date. The rediscount rate
of coffee export bills of commercial banks was raised during the current
year from 5 to 6%, the facility being provided ordinarily for a period of
3 months.
3.        The Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE).  Incorporated as a fully
Government-owned share company under the commercial code, the Commercial
Bank of Ethiopia had, as of December 31, 1969, share capital and reserves
amounting to about E$41 million, deposits of about E$274 million and a loan
portfolio of about E$228 million. Of the total loans, about E$90 million
were for financing exports and imports; E$49 million for financing domestic
trade, including movement of agricultural produce; E$44 million for finan-
cing industrial activity; E$22 million for agricultural production; and
E$23 million for financing building construction and other miscellaneous
activities. CBE does not generally advance medium- or long-term loans.
4.        CBE's advances to coffee merchants stood at about E$8 million
as of November 30, 1971, of which some E$1.5 million were to coffee mer-
chants in Kaffa Province and some E$0.9 million to coffee merchants in
Sidamo. As of the same date, CBE's advances to coffee exporters stood
at some E$31.9 million. The advances to coffee merchants for local trade



ANNEX 4
Page 2
carried interest of 9-1/2% per annum, while those to exporters were at
7-1/2%. CBE also makes advances for coffee production to cooperatives,
at 8-1/2% interest, on the guarantee of the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank which retains 1% margin.
5.        CBE's net profits for 1969 amounted to about E$7.0 million and its
dividend was increased to 8% from the level of 7% it had been maintaining
for some years. As of the end of 1969, CBE had 5 regional offices, 6 pay
offices and 62 branches, and a total staff of 1,292, of whom 66 belonged to
the managerial and senior supervisory cadre. CBE has 3 branch offices in
the project areas, at Jimma (Kaffa Province) and at Awasa and Dilla (Sidamo
Province).
6.        The Addis Ababa Bank.  Established in 1964 as a share company,
the Addis Ababa Bank has a paid-up share capital of E$5 million, of which
40% is held bv the National and Grindlays Bank Ltd., and the rest by indi-
viduals. The net earnings after tax in 1969 amounted to about E$0.8 mil-
lion, out of which a dividend of 7.5% was paid. Management is vested in a
Board of eight directors of whom two are representatives of the National
and rrindlays Bank. At the end of December 1969, the Addis Ababa Bank had
a staff of 276 and 15 branch offices, one of which was in the project area
al: Jimma (Kaffa Province).
7.        As of December 31, 1969, reserves amounted to some ESl.l million,
deposits to some ES37.2 million and loans and advances to some ES25.3 mil-
lion. Some 9% of these loans and advances were for agriculture, 41% for
industry, 24% for local trade and the rest for building construction and
other miscellaneous activities. Loans to coffee merchants as of November
3fl, 1971 amounted to some E$3.7 million, mostly in the project areas. Loans
to coffee exporters amounted to some E$7.0 million as of the same date.
Advances to merchants and growers carried interest of 9-1/2% per annum,
while those to exporters were at 8 or 9-1/2%, the lower rate being charged
when the bills were rediscounted with the National Bank of Ethiopia.
8.        The Banco di Roma.  Established in 1967 as a share company, this
bank is the successor to the branch office of the Banco di Roma (Italy),
which had been operating in Asmara since before World War II. The Banco has
a share capital of E$4.0 million and reserves of about ESO.5 million.  Its
deposits as of December 31, 1969 amounted to some EA36.3 million and loans
and advances to some E$32.2 million. As of November 30, 1971, the Banco
had some E$1.2 million outstanding with coffee merchants in Addis Ababa.
No financing is currently being done in the project areas, as there are no
branch offices in either Kaffa or Sidamo Province.
9.        Neither of two other credit institutions in Ethiopia - the
pr:Lvately-owned Banco di Napoli and the state-owned Mortgage Company of
Ethiopia - make advances for agricultural purposes.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
10.       AIDB was established by Imperial decree dated August 28, 1970 as
a share company under the Commercial Code of Ethiopia, basically by merging
the state-owmed Development Bank of Ethiopia (nRE) and the Ethiopian
Investment Corporation (EIC). ATDB's initial paid-up capital was E$50,000,
which was subsequently raised to F$35 million after completion of the
valuation of its loan and equity portfolio inherited from DBE, EIC and
the MIinistry of Finance. Its sole shareholders are the Imperial Ethiopian
Government or its representatives.
11.       AIDB's constitution provides for a Board of not less than five, nor
more than seven members. There are currently six members, headed by the
Mlinister of Finance; the other members are the Minister of Agriculture,
the '!inister of Commerce and Industry, the Minister in charge of the Planning
Commission, the Governor of the National Bank of Ethiopia and AIDB's Managing
Director. At a future date it is IEG's intention to appoint to the Board
representatives of commercial banking and the private sector.
12.       Loan applications are considered by a staff loan committee.  Loans
involving less than E$5nO,000 in a single project are approved by the
Managing Director, except that the Board is informed of any differences
between the loan committee recommendations and the Managing Director's
decisions.
13.       AIDB's Board has issued, in August 1971, a Statement of General
Policy which provides a generally sound basis for project financing. This
Statement requires that AIDB shows a profit from its operations, after
covering operating costs and making provision for reserves; that it keeps
a satisfactory balance between the maturities of its own obligations and
those of the loans which it makes to borrowers; and that its debt/equity
ratio should not exceed 3:1. The Statement allows AIDB to increase its
capital by selling its equity investments in other companies and to
encourage the growth of the share market in Ethiopia. Provided they are
economically and financially sound, AIDB is permitted to participate in the
financing of both private and public projects in the agricultural and indus-
trial sectors by making equity investments and short- and long-term loans
or by acting as guarantor.
14.       The Statement of General Policy provides guidance on the terms of
AIDB's lending. In general, AIDB provides about 50% of the cost of the
project being financed, including up to a 30% share in the equity; lends
on terms up to 1n years; requires procurement by international competitive
bidding, wherever appropriate; and does not disburse any funds until after
signature of a satisfactory loan agreement. AIDB's short-term (up to one
year maturity) lending rate is in the range of 9-11%, currently at the
lower figure. Its longer term lending rate is 8-1/2%. While this latter
rate is 1% higher than that charged by its predecessor institutions, it is
still lower than that charged by local commercial banks, i.e. about 9-1/2%.
The general level of interest rates charged by AIDB is a matter under



ANNEX 4
Page 4
review in the context of the proposed AIDB project. In the meantime, for
lending under the coffee processing project, AIDB proposes to charge a rate
not lower than 9-1/2%, but not greater than 127.
15.       By August 1971, AIDB had recruited some 90 staff members, about
half of them professionals. This staff is generally well qualified but
has only limited previous banking and investment experience. This deficiency
has been recognized and efforts are being made to overcome it. In particular,
AI'DB intends to recruit a small number of senior advisers from abroad.
16.       AIDB is divided into four main Departments, Agriculture, Industry,
Finance and Banking and Evaluation and Research.  Although it inherited 9
branch offices from DBE, only 2 of these are presently functioning, mainly
to facilitate collections and project supervision. Lending under the coffee
processing project would be handled by the Agriculture Department, which
had 22 graduate staff in August 1971. It is divided into two divisions,
one for appraisal and the other for supervision and follow-up.
17.       At the end of its 1970/71 financial year (July 7, 1971), AIDB had
approved 150 loans for a total of E$16 million, of which 136 (ES13.2
million) xere for agriculture, mostly to commercial farmers. As of December
10, 1971, AIDB's coffee loan portfolio was as follows:
Short term   Medium term  Long term   Total
(less than   (1-4 years)   (over 4
1 year)                      years)
…----------------…E$'000…--…-------------
Acl:ive loans taken over from
t:he Development Bank of
Ethiopia:                         70             168           424      662
Act:ive loans taken over from
t:he Ethiopian Investment
(Corporation:                     -                8            -          8
Loan commitments by AIDB:
- disbursed:                       304              40            -        344
- undisbursed:                      88               -            50       138
462            216           474    1,152
Inactive loans and loans at court:                                      2,272
Total portfolio:                                              3,424
18.       AIDB's provisional balance sheet at the end of its first
fiscal year (July 7, 1971) and its income and expenditure statement for
that initial operating period are summarized in the Tables of this Annex.
December 22, 1971



EO'LITOPIA
COFFEE P.iOCESSING PZiOJECT
AGRH&CULTIRAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT 3ANK (AIDB)
Provisional Balance Sheet as of July 7, 1971
,$ mi llion)
ASSETS                                                    LIABILITIES
Cash and Balance with banks             1.87                 Current Liabilities                       2.89
IEG Treasury Bills                      2.45
Bills and notes receivable              2.4?                 Deposits                                   7.07
Accounts Receivable and Prepayments   0.68
Stocks and on hand                      0.74                 Guarantees, Acceptance & Letters
of Credit issued as Der contra          6.79
Loans                         49.04
Less provisions               12.70   36.34
Long-term loans                          17.83
Guarantees, Acceptance &
letters of Credit issued    6.78
Less provisions                2.83    3.55
Ministry of Finance                      10.79
Investments                   4^.28
Less provisions               12.81   30.47
chare Capital                            35.00
Government Bonds                        1.03
(DJ
Fixed Assets                            1.50                 Reserves and Retained earnings             1.09        H
81.406                                                          81.46
December 22, 1971



ANNEX 4
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT SANK (AIDB)
Profit and Loss Statement (Aug. 28, 1970 - July 7, 197l)
(E$ Million)
INCOME
Interest earned                                    2.ly
Less:  Interest Expenses                           o.84
Net Interest Income                                1.75
Service Charges                                    0.07
Dividends                                          0.27
Profits from Farm Operations                       0.13
Sundry Income                                      0.08         1.90
EXPENSES
Staff' Service                                     0.75
Office Overheads                                   0.23
Sundry Expenses                                    0.12
Fees                                               0.04
Auditors' emoluments                               0.01
Depreciation                                       0.04         1.19
Profit before tax                                                    0.71
Taxation                                                        0.07
Profit after tax                                                o.64
Add:  Profit of Ethiopian Investment
Corporation less taxation                    0.57
Profit of Ceres Co. Ltd.                      -           0.57
1.21
Deduct:  Transfer to legal reserve                 0.07
Capital registration fees                 0.12        0.19
Retained profits                                                1.02
December 22, 1971



A'IVCIPIA
COFFEE PROCESSINUK PP.OJECT
Phasing
1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/7    Totals
A. Sidamo Cooperative Sub-Project
1. iioad Construction
Feeder roads (km)                                         90        110        -          -       200
Factory access roads (km)                                 35        65                    -       100
2. Washing Station Construction
Sites connected to road network                           29         41        -          -        70
Sites on which construction would start during year       25        35         10         -        70
Stations completed during year                            15        35         20         -        70
Cumulative no. of stations in operation                   -         15         50         70
3.  Sidamo Private Sector Sub-Project
Stations rebuilt during year                               5         15        10         -         30
Lesser modifications effected                             20         35        15         -         70
Cumulative no. of rebuilt stations in operation           -           5        20         30
C. Kaffa Cooperative Sub-Project
Stations constructed during year                           2        12          6         -        20
Cumulative no. of stations in operation                   -           2        14         20
Feeder roads constructed (km)                             10         30        -          -        40
Factory access roads constructed (km)                      6         36        18         -        60
D. Kaffa Estates Sub-Project
Stations constructed during year                           1          6         3         -        10
Cumulative no. of stations in operation                   -           1         7         10






ANNEX 6
Page 1
ETIHIOPIA
COFFEE pRnCESSITN PROJECT
Road Design Standards and Construction Methods
Introduction
1.        The project calls for the construction of loops of feeder roads
into the interior of the coffee-growing areas of the Sidamo and Deressa
Awqralas of Sidamo Province, to which prospective washing station sites
would be linked by short stretches of factory access roads. In the Jimma
and Limmu Aw-rajas of Kaffa Province, it calls for the up-grading of several
short sections of existing feeder roads and the linkina of pros,pective
washing station sites to these up-graded roads or to existing feeder roads
which are already of a satisfactory standard. These roads are necessary to
bring processing machinery to the washing station sites and to allow sub-
sequent extraction of parchment coffee. The tentatively identified align-
ments of the roads to be constructed or up-graded under the project are
shown in Maps 2 (Sidamo) and 3 (Kaffa). The total lengths of roads are as
follows-
Sidamo Province: about 200 km of feeder roads and 100
km of access roads.
Kaffa Province:  about 40 km of feeder roads and 60 km
of access roads.
The proposed phasing of this road construction is indicated in Annex 5.
2.        As described below in more detail, it is proposed that these
feeder and factory access roads be constructed only to dry-weather stan-
dards initially. The Imperial Highway Authority (IHA) does not currently
construct roads of this type, confining itself to the construction and main-
tenance of all-weather and trunk roads. Local administrations have
neither the staff, equipment or experience necessary to construct the roads
in the time available. Local contractors would not be suitable for
constructing the roads called for in the Sidamo Province since the nature
of that part of the construction program would call for the letting of, at
most, 2 large contracts, for which they do not have sufficient experience.
On the other hand, the contracts would be too small to attract contractors
from overseas. It is, therefore, proposed that the Sidamo road construction,
other than the construction of river crossings, would be carried out by a
"oads Development Section to be set up specifically for th-ts purpose within
the Project Implementation tJnit (PITT),



ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.        Nevertheless, it is in the general interest of developing con-
tractual capability in Ethiopia for as much of the road construction pro-
gram as possible to be put out to contractors. The road construction pro-
gram for Kaffa Province lends itself to this more readily than that for
Sidamo. For the Kaffa program calls for a large number of short stretches
of road (see para 1 and Map 3), each of which should be within the capabil-
ity of local contractors using existing expertise and equipment. Local
contractors would, therefore, be used for all road up-grading and construc-
tion work under the project in the Kaffa Province, under the supervision of
PIIJ's Roads Development Section. They would also be used for constructing
all river crossings, in both Sidamo and Kaffa Provinces. However, should
local contractors prove inadequate or too expensive, the Roads Developm2nt
Section could be expanded to carry out the work presently proposed for those
contractors.
Background Information
4.        Detailed maps of the project areas are not available but an exam-
ination of photo-mosaics of the Sidamo area (which formed the basis for
Map 2) shows the topography to be hilly, with many intersecting streams
flowing mainly in an east to west direction. The topography appears to
become steeper and hillier in the easterly and southerly extremities of
the area. Visual observation of the topography in the Kaffa project area
inclicates its similarity in most respects to the Sidamo project area. The
geeneral land form in both areas appears to present a reasonable network of
ricdges on which the feeder roads would be constructed. The washing station
access roads would lead down from these ridges to station sites near, but
not: on, river banks.
5.        The vegetation cover in the project areas is mainly coffee, with
scattered indigenous forest trees left to provide shade for the coffee.
None of the project areas appear to present any difficulties for the clear-
ing necessary for road construction.
6.        The soils in the coffee areas are mainly red clay loams which
are deep and well-drained. An examination of existing dry-weather roads
in the area indicated that these red soils are relatively well-suited to
drY weather road construction and provide adequate bearing strengths.  In
some of the Sidamo areas, however, these red soils are underlaid by a soft
sandstone-like formation which could be easily broken; this material is un-
suitable for surfacing because of its deterioration when exposed to water.
7.        Rainfall in the project areas is in the range of 1,300 mm to
2,000 mm per annum. This rainfall is distributed over most of the year,
with monthly minimums in November/December (the principal period of use of
the roads for extracting the washed coffee) and maximums in August/September.
IHA and local contractors indicate that the normal construction period is
about 8-9 months per annum, starting about October 1. All the estimates
macle in this report are based on this restricted construction season.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Design Standards
8.        The roads to be constructed under the project are basically re-
quired to move washed coffee from washing stations to the existing trunk
road network from where it can be sent to Addis Ababa, ports and then over-
seas. The vehicles generally used for this purpose are 10-ton trucks.
The harvesting season begins towards the end of September and goes on
through the dry season, October/January. Washing stations are to be
equipped with suitable storage facilities so that initial throughput can
be kept at the station until roads are dry. The project roads would, there-
fore, be built only to dry-weather standards initially. It must be ex-
pected, however, that these roads, particularly the feeder road loops,
would be subjected to increasing traffic loads resulting from additional
agricultural and other developments which would probably follow within the
newly accessible areas. It is, therefore, proposed to construct the
feeder roads, in anticipation of this development, to the standards recent-
ly suggested in a UNDM study for uniform adoption in Ethiopia, namely;
Roadway width    -- 5.5 meters
Ditch depth       -- 1 meter
Clearing width   -- 20 meters
Maximum gradient -- 12 percent
Roads of this standard could readily be up-graded to all-weather feeder
roads by the later addition of surfacing material over a 4-meter width of
the roadway.
9.        Traffic on the short, 1.5 km access roads linking the washing
station sites to the feeder road loops would generally be limited to initial
delivery of processing machinery and, subsequently, to about 12-15 10-ton
truck loads of coffee each year, with minor traffic for servicing, including
supervision of station operation. These roads would, therefore, be construc-
ted to absolute minimum dry weather standards:
Roadway width    -- 4.5 meters
Ditch depth       -- 60 centimeters
Clearing width   -- 10 meters (minimum)
Maximum gradient -- 14%
(In practice, this means a bulldozed track, following ground profile but
provided with drainage ditches and crowning for the roadway surface.)
Construction Technique
10.       For feeder roads of the proposed standards, it would not be ap-
propriate to go through a detailed design stage. Alignments and profile
levels would be determined as indicated in the following paragraph, which
would then be followed by construction gangs applying the proposed design
standards as they go.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
11.       A survey crew would survey a center line to assure the most effi-
cienit alignment and correct location, following an initial helicopter survey.
These surveys would be undertaken with a transit and chain, with the center
line marked by means of stakes at a maximum of 30-meter intervals. Clearing
lines would be marked at 10 meters on either side of the center lines. Pro-
file levels would only be required where indicated by topographic conditions
or critical grade lines. During the initial construction stages, however,
it rnay be desirable for the survey crew to establish construction slope
stakes to acquaint construction crews with the road standards required.
12.       Following this initial control survey, the road gradients and
standards would be judged and maintained by the construction supervisor,
who would need to be experienced in constructing roads in this manner.
The feeder roads would be located on well-defined ridges and would general-
ly follow the contour of the ground, thus keeping requirements for large
embankments or excavations to an absolute minimum. With no haulage of
fill material required, all basic construction work could be accomplished
with, bulldozers. The following construction techniques would probably be
followed:
(a) The road right-of-way, 10 meters wide on either side of
the surveyed center lines, would be cleared of all trees
and bushes by use of bulldozers and hand labor as required.
(b) Vegetation and topsoil would be stripped from an area ap-
proximately 7 meters either side of the center line and
about 20 centimeters deep, and wasted to the side of the
right-of-way.
(c) Ditches would be excavated, and the excavated materials
used for an elevated road embankment, to form road cross-
sections to the required standards.
(d) The embankment would be shaped and compacted to design
standards.
(e) Small bridges and minor drainage structures would be con-
structed and/or installed, as required.
This method of construction in the project area should present no serious
problems.
Construction Organization
13.       As indicated in paragraphs 2 and 3, the Roads Development Section
of the PIU (Annex 8) would be responsible for planning, design and construc-
tion of all roads envisaged under the project. It would actually carry out
the construction of the roadway for the Sidamo areas, and would supervise
local contractors in the construction of the roadway for the Kaffa areas
and of river crossings in all areas. The Roads Development Section would
be headed by a Senior Roads Engineer, assisted by a Roads Engineer.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
14.       All surveying needed for the project would be carried out by two
survey teams within the Roads Development Section. Each team would consist
of a surveyor, assisted by about 5 laborers, and would be equipped with
survev equipment and a 6-passenger, 4-wheel drive vehicle.
15.       Construction of the Sidamo road network would be carried out by
three construction units within the Roads Development Section. Two of
these units would carry out basic construction, each self-contained and
with a capability of constructing about 50 km of feeder roads and 25 km of
access roads in each 8-9 month construction season.  Each of these units
would be headed by an experienced road construction supervisor, assisted by
vehicle operators, a mechanic, a gang leader, laborers and camp helpers.
They would each be equipped with three 125 hp bulldozers (one of which would
have a ripper attachment); one 125 hp motor grader; one 10-ton capacity
self-powered pneumatic compactor; one 6-8 cu yd capacity dump truck; one
mobile workshop trailer; one 20,000 liter capacity trailer-mounted fuel
tank; two 10-pnssenger 4-wheel drive vehicles; tentage; explosives; and
rock equipment. The third unit would carry out miscellaneous work, such
as factory site clearing, culvert construction and road maintenance during
the construction period. It would be equipped with a bulldozer, a motor
grader and a dump truck.
16.       The construction units would be backed up by a permanent workshop
;-14 m     4r'kq tr  n   s.4table equipment), a 25-ton capacity low-loader and a
stock of spare parts (the initial purchase of which would represent about
107 of the original value of the construction machinery itself). A mechan-
ical Superintendent would be appointed to devise and supervise a preventive
maintenance program for the construction equipment, and to supervise the
workshop and parts warehousing. Four-wheel drive personnel-carrying ve-
hicles would be provided for the Senior Roads Engineer and the Mechanical
Superintendent.
17.       Local contractors in Kaffa Province would be supervised through
periodic visits to that area by the Senior Roads Engineer or the Roads
Engineer. They would be assisted by an experienced road construction su-
pervisor permanently stationed in Jimma, who would be provided with a
4-wheel drive vehicle.
18.       It is likely that the Senior Roads Engineer and the Mechanical
Superintendent would have to be recruited abroad. All other staff could
probably be located within Ethiopia. IHA would assist the PIU in selecting
the expatriate and local technical staff, some of whom might be temporarily
seconded from THA. IlA would also assist the Senior Roads Engineer in
finalizing the staff and equipment requirements for the Roads Development
Section, in drawing up the contract documents for the purchase of road
construction equipment and in determining the road design standards to be
applied.
Cost E;stimates
19.       The costs of constructing the roads in the Sidamo Province are
shown in detail in Table 1 to this Annex, with some supplementary data in



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Tables 2 and 3. Capital and operating costs of equipment were derived
from information supplied by local equipment dealers, with an allowance for
price increases averaging 5% per annum. In addition, the number of hours
that equipment wqould need to be utilized assumes the need for reserve capa-
c:Lty, and a physical contingency of some 15% has been added. Taking into
account the residual value of road construction machinery and equipment
oni completion of the project, the total cost of constructing these roads
is estimated to be E$2.0 million (US$0.9 million), or about E$6,500
(IJS$2,800) per km, which is reasonable.
2(0.      The cost of constructing roads in Kaffa Province would be some-
what higher because of contractors' profits and the piecemeal nature of
construction there. Based on sample quotations from prospective local con-
tractors, it is estimated that feeder roads would cost some E$9,800
(US$4,300) per km, and washing station access roads some E$5,400 (US$2,300)
per km, to which must be added an average of about ES440 (US$200) per km
for river crossings 1/.
Mbaintenance
21.       During the construction period, the Sidamo roads would be main-
tained by PIU's Roads Development Section (para 15). Thereafter, road
maintenance arrangements would depend on whether the present project would
be extended -- which would seem to be a high probability. In that case,
maintenance would continue to be carried out by PIU through the extended
construction period. If no further construction would be done, road mainte-
nance could either remain with PIU (the costs of which could be reimbursed
by IEC grant) or by the local administration. In either case, residual
machinery from the present project would probably be used.  Assurances have
been obtained during negotiations that project roads would at all times be
properly maintained; and that, on completion of the project, PIU would
use or dispose of the road construction vehicles, machinery and equipment
in accordance with a plan mutually acceptable to IFr, and IDA.
December 22, 1971
1/   For comparison purposes, it may be noted that by weighting these costs
in proportion to the lengths of road proposed for the Sidamo area --
200 km of feeder roads and 100 km of access roads -- the average cost
would be about E$8,500 (US$3,700) per km.



AdNEX 6
Table
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Road Construction Costs (Sid4ao Cooperative Sub-Project)
(in E5'OOOI
1971/72       1972/73    1973/74    1974/75                    Total     Foreign        Import                    Residual Values
Erchange      Duty                  Total        Import
Component     Component                          Duty
A. Machinery and Equipment /
7 x 125 h.p. bull-dozers                  -            715            _        _                      715          633                               5 564
3 o 125 h.p. motor-graders                -            270            -        _                      270          243             -                 214               -
3 x 6-8 cu. yd. dump-trucks               -            126            -                               126           90            23                 102              19
2 c   Compactor                           -             66            _        _                       66           59             -                  53               -
4 o4 wheel drive (10 passenger)           -             68            _        -                       68           37            24                  55              19
5 o 4 wheel drive (5 passenger)          28             42            -        -                       70           38            25                  57              20
1 x 25-toe low-loader                     -             96            _        _                       96           71            15                  87              13
2 x   worikhop trailers                   -             24            -        -                        24          22             -                  12               -
Equipment for workshop trailers           -             24            _        _                        24          22                                12               -
2 x 20,000 1-liter fuel tanks             _             30            -        -                        30          27             -                  15
Equipment for main workshop               -            100            _        _                       100          90             -                  50
Tentage                                   _              6            -        _                         6           5                                 -
Survey equipment                          7              7            -        -                       14           12
Excplosives                               -              8            7        -                        15          14             -                   -               -
Sub-total              35          1,582            7        -                    1,624        1,363            87               1,221              71
Spare parts j/                            -            i62           82        -                      244          220             -                   -
Workshoh  building                        -             40            -        -                        40           8             -                  32               -
Sub--otal              35         1,784            89        _                    1,908        1,591            87               1,253              71
Zontionenci ee (. O) 1                                 356           18        -                       382         318            17                 250              14
T'otal                 4'          ,14o          107        -                    2,290        1,909           104               1,503              85
Other (Botto 1/
'ainrie- .oo  Wa,e   3/                  45            232         232         -                      507          187
Machinery operatingf coto 4/              2            183          18                                 368         246
Helicopter Sunny    '2/                                   3           -         -                        5            4
Fridgeo and crossings  h/                 -             72           88        -                       16o           36
Sub-total              47            490          503        -                     1,o4o         473
Contingencies (209)                      10             98          100        _                       208           94
Total                  -'7           588          603        _                     1,248         567
Grand Total           100          2,728          710        -                    3 ,538       2 ,476
Deduct:  Import Coty Component                 12             93            -         -                      105
Residual Values (less Import
Duty Component)                      -            -              -      1,418                  1,418
Costs allocated to Kaffa
Sub-Project j                        -             39          23         -                       62
Economic Costs for Sidamo
Sub-Project                         88         1,596          687      (2,418)                 1,953
i/ Secludes futl cost of surcey for, and supervision of, the road construction program for the Kaffa Sub-Project,
which will be carried out by the PIU on behalf of IE;.  The amount involved (some R$62,000)
has been deducted from these costs in the economic analysis.
J  10  of the total cost of machinery and equipment in 1971/72, and a further 5, in 1972/73,
3/ See -able 2 of this Annex for further details.
/  See Table 3 of thin Anne. for further details.
j/ Cost of hiring helicopter and pilot for 40 hours at E$130/hr.
t/  Conatruoted by contractors: 11 bridges at E$12,000  ach and 93 crossings at E9300 each.
See footnote 1/ above.



ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Road Conatruction Coats; Sidamo Cooperative Sub-ProJect
(in E$'OOO)
Annual         1971/72        1972/73    1973/74                Total        Foreign
Unit                                                                         Exchange
Cost                                                                         Component
Salaries and Wages (other than vehicle operators)
1  senior engineer I/                6o                30             60          60                 150             112
1  mechanical superintendent         50                -              50          50                 100              75
1  assistant senior engineer j       16                 8             16          16                  40              -
2  unit supervisors (Sidamo)         12                 -             24          24                  48              _
1  unit supervisor (Kaffa)           12                -               6           6                  12              -
2  gang leaders                     4.5                -               9           9                  18              -
3 mechanics                           9                -              27          27                  54              -
2  surveyors                          6                 3             12          12                  27              -
30  laborers (construction)          o.6                -              18          18                  36              -
10  laborers (surveyors)             o 0.6               2              6           6                  14              -
6  camp helpers                     o.6                -               4           4                   8              -
TOTAL         -                 43            232        232                  507            187
j Will also be in charge of supervising Kaffa Sub-project roads.
/ Will also carry out survey of Kaffa Sub-project roads.
.1t
I
9'3



ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Road Construction Costs: Sidamo Cooperative Sub-Project
(in E$'000)
1971/72     1972/73      1973/74               Total     Foreign
Exchange
Component
Machinery Operating Costs 
7 x Dozers 2/                                                  83           83                   166         106
3 x Motor graders 3/                                -40                     40                    80           54
3 x Dumpers 4/                                                 14           14                    28           19
2 x Compactors 5/ 1                                            22           22                    44           27
9 x 4-wheel drive passenger vehicles 6/             2          19           19                    40           34
1 x low-loader 7/                                   -           3            3                     6            4
Rock equipnent 8/                               -           2             2                    4            2
TOTAL       2         183           183                  368          246
1/ Excluding spare parts.
2/ 1,080 hrs/yrAnit at E$11.00/hr; of which fuel and oils E$8/hr and labor E$3/hr.
3/ 1,080 hrs/yr/unit at E$12.30/hr; of which tyres E$1.30/hr, cutting edges E$0.20/hr, fuel and oils E$7.80/hr
and labor E$3/hr.
4/ 500 hrs/yr/unit at E$9/hr; of which tyres E$1/hr. fuels and oil E$6/hr and labor E$2/hr.
3/ 1,080 hrs/yr/unit at E$10/hr; of which tyres E$l/hr, fuels and oil E$6/hr and labor E$3/hr.
3/ 500 hrs/yr/unit in 1972/73 and 73/74 at E$4.20/hr; of which tyres E$0.20/hr and fuels and oil E$4/hr.  In              C <
1971/72 two vehicles will be used for 250 hours each.                                                                    ON
7/ 250 hrs/yr at E$11/hr; of which tyres E$3/hr, fuels and oil E$6/hr and labor E$2/hr.
/ Includes local hiring charge; rock equipment is available locally and none will be purchased specifically
for the project.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Typical Washing Station
Introduction
1.        A general description of the washing process has been given in
Annex 1.
2.        Each washiing station to be constructed under the project would be
able to process, at full production, about 600 tons of ripe cherry per annum
into some 120 tons of parchment coffee, equivalent to 100 tons of clean coffee
or green beans. (lHereafter, all weights refer to clean coffee equivalent
unless otherwise stated.) This capacity would be reached in the second
year for washing stations in the Sidamo Private Sector, Kaffa Estates and
Kaffa Cooperative Sub-projects, since their crop supply is assured; but, for
the first year, throughput is assumed at 80 tons to allow for teething problems
and inexperienced staff. For the Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project, where most
crop would come from farmers who have not previously delivered coffee for
washing because of transport restrictions, it is assumed that only a 40 tons
througihput would be achieved in the first year, with 80 tons in the second
year and 100 tons thereafter.
3.        Harvesting of ripe cherry takes place over a period of four months,
from September to December, the main crop being harvested in October and No-
vember. The main rains continue through September and into early October,
after which dry weather is normally experienced. The expected deliveries
of coffee through the season to each washing station would be about as fol-
lows 1/:
September    October    November    December
Tons        20-25        35-40         30           10
The typical washing station to be constructed under the project, which is
described in detail below, would be capable of producing some 40 tons of
clean coffee equivalent in a 25-day pulping period, with maximum daily intake
of 10 tons of ripe cherry (tlhe equivalent of about 1.6 tons of clean coffee).
The proposed design is based on improved washing stations in use in Kenya,
with modifications for Ethiopian conditions made as a result of observations
of existing stations in Ethiopia and of experiments by the Jimma Coffee Re-
search Station.
1/   These estimates are based on each washing station serving an area from
which all coffee is delivered for washing, as ought to be the case for
all sub-projects except Sidamo Cooperative sub-project. In this latter
case, with a "catchment area" of a larger size, it is possible that
throughput could be kept nearer the October figures for other months.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Design and Operation of Principal Items
4.        Farmers would bring their cherry to a Reception Area -- a 5x5
meter roofed concrete area, equipped witlh a spring balance -- whlere cherry
would be examined, sorted and stacked pending processing. Green unripe, and
over-ripe cherry would be rejected. No more ripe cherry would be accepted
than could be processed the same day.
5.        Accepted cherry would then be placed in a syphon tank filled with
water. Cherries which float in this tank ("floaters") are inferior -- a
mix of diseased or insect-attacked beans, plus some cherry containing only
one cherry bean instead of the normal two -- and are processed separately.
The remaining cherries are carried hydraulically into the pulping shed -- a
simple structure with concrete floor, corrugated iron roof and open sides --
where the station's machinery is housed. The cherries would first pass
through a 3-disc pulper, where the outer skin and most of the pulp is re-
moved as the cherries are forced to pass between the revolving pulper discs
and fixed knife edges.  (The pulper is a straightforward piece of machinery
but the accurate setting of the distance between the pulper discs and the
knLfe edges needs some experience and is crucial to efficient operation.
This setting would be one of the principal tasks for the technical super-
visory services.)
6.        The pulp is carried away hydraulically along a channel linking the
pu:Lping shed to a pulp pit. This pit must not be too near the edge of the
river, which is the source of water for this and other washing stations,
in order to avoid pollution; and it must be some distance away from the
pulping shed (to avoid any odors coming from its decomposition tainting the
col-fee being processed) in a downhill direction (since otherwise unpressur-
ized hydraulic means of carrying pulp to the pit could not be used). The
pulp makes a useful mulch for coffee trees and other crops and is widely
used by farmers in Kenya coffee growing areas, for example. With the gen-
erally low standards of cultivation in the project area, a considerable
side benefit to the project might be achieved if local farmers could be
persuaded to make proper use of this pulp.  But so far, in areas where
washing is already going on, no use is made of it.
7.        The de-pulped cherries, with some skins and whole cherries whlich
inevitably get through the pulper, are then passed into a mechanical/hy-
draulic pre-grader, which separates heavy coffee from the whole cherries,
lighter coffee ("lights") and skins.  All but the heavy coffee are then
passed through a re-passer, which is, in effect, a 1-disc pulper.
8.        The good coffee -- which is now in the form of individual coffee
bea,ns covered with a thin layer of mucilage -- is passed into concrete
fermenting tanks. The coffee stays in these tanks for up to about 3 days
while the mucilage is broken down by fermentation. Two tanks --about 0.90 m
deep, 3.00 m long and 1.50 m wide -- would be required for each day's



ANNEX 7
Page 3
production, so that 6 such tanks would be required in all for the good
coffee. The second-grade coffee -- "floaters" and lights" --would be
fermented separately, for which 3 smaller tanks would be required, each
about 0.90 m by 3.00 m by 0.75 m.
9.        Once fermented, the coffee would pass into a concrete washing
channel where the broken-down mucilage is readily washed off with water.
The coffee is then placed in drying trays and set out in the sun for an
average period of about 7 days. Each day's production would need about 100
trays so that each station would need to have about 800, allowing for a
small excess drying capacity. These trays consist of a wooden frame with
a mesh-wire bottom, cover about 2 m2 eachl and can adequately hold about
20 kg of parcliment coffee. For drying, they are placed out on wooden
tressels. Whenever it rains, these trays are placed in piles of about 10,
with the top tray covered with a piece of corrugated iron, some 30 of which
would be needed for this purpose for each washing station.
10.       The coffee should be dried to about 10% moisture content.  Each
station would, therefore, be equipped with a small hand-huller, which
would remove the parchment from small samples to produce clean coffee, and
a inoisture meter, which can be used only on clean coffee.
11.       Each washing station would also be provided with a store with a
concrete base and corrugated iron roof, sufficient to store about 60 tons of
parchment coffee (i.e., half the anticipated seasonal production), since
the access roads may not be passable by the 10-ton trucks that would be
used to transport the parchment coffee to Addis Ababa, until early October,
normally, and sometimes later than that. The store would be equipped with
a platform scale.
Ancillary Items
12.       A 6 hp diesel engine would be provided to run the pulper, pre-
grader and re-passer. It would also run a 2.3 kilowatt generator for the
station's lighting installation, since pulping of the proposed daily through-
put could not be completed in daylight, and there is no public electricity
supply to washing station sites.
13.       Adequate water supply is essential for the washing process, up
to 20,000 liters per hour being required at peak times. Water would be
brought to the station by an earth furrow and gravity fed through the sta-
tion. A header tank of 22,500 liters would be provided, In some cases,
however, it may prove impossible to choose a site which allows this gravity
feed while, at the same time, permitting gravity disposal of pulp (para 6);
and a pump and engine would need to be installed.
14.       A small office building would be Provided, equipped with simple
office furniture and equipment, including a small safe since farmers would
need to be paid for their crop in cash as it was delivered.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Cost Estimates
15.       The capital cost of a typical washing station to be constructed
under the project is estimated to be some E$58,000, including some E$1O,000
worth of machinery. Piping, drying trays and support tressels would have to
be replaced about once every five years, at a cost of some E$11,000. Ma-
chinery, electrical wiring and sundry equipment would have to be replaced
about once every ten years, at a cost of some E$18,000. The buildings and
water supply should have a 20-year life. Further details are given in
Table 1.
16.       Table 2 shows estimated operating costs for a washing station
within the Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project. This assumes that most account-
ing work and technical supervision would be provided by PIU headquarters,
but that the individual station would be responsible for maintaining its
stretch of factory access road. Operating costs for the other sub-projects
would be somewhat higher, as detailed in the relevant financial and economic
analysis Annexes, because overhead expenses have to be included.
December 13, 1971



ANNE 7
E T H I O P I A
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Capital Cost of Model Washing Station
(Annual Capacity: 100 MT)
Total Cost             Foreign Exchange      Economic
Caponent             Life
(Amount) i  (,)     (years)
A. FACTORY BUILDING                                -------------------E$-------------
Reception area                                     500                      125      25         20
Sypbon tank                                      1,000                     250       25         20
Pulping shed                                     2,000                      500      25         20
Pulp channel & pulp pit                          2,000                      500      25         20
Fermenting tanks, 9 units                        5,000                    1,250      25         20
Washing channel, collecting tank                 3,000                      750      25         20
Effluent channels & seepage pits                 1,500                      375      25         20
Sub-total             15,000                   3,750      25
B. FACTORY EQUIH6ET
Pulper - 3 discs                                 3,700                    3,330      90         10
Pregrader                                        2,800                    2,520      90         10
Repasser                                           800                      720      90         10
Diesel engine, 6 h.p.                            1,200                    1,080      go         10
Alternator, 2.3 kw                                  600                     540      90         10
Wiring & lighting                                   300                     270      90         10
InternMa piping, gutter, draining plates          1,800                   1,620      go         10
Plastic pipes & tools                              700                      630      90          5
Installation                                     1,000                      250      25         10
Sub-total             12,900                  10,960       85
C. WATER SUPPLY
Furrow - 600 m                                      300                      -        -         20
Headertank, 22500 liters                            500                     150      30         20
External piping                                     300                     270      90         20
Sundries                                            900                     450      50         20
Sub-total              2,000                     870       44
D. DRYING APEA
800 trays at E$10                                 8,000                   6,40o      80          5
Wooden supports                                   1,200                      -        -           5
Corrugated iron sheets - 80                         300                     270      90         10
Perimeter fence                                   1,200                     600      50         10
Sub-total             10,700                    7,270      68
E. OTHER BUILDI3GS
Office                                            1,000                     4oo      40         20
Main store                                        8,oOO                   3,200      40          20
Bag store                                           400                     160.     4O          20
Sub-total              9,400                    3,760      40
F. SUNDRY EQUIRdENT
Spring balance (reception)                          100                      90      90          10
Platform scales                                     300                     270      90          10
Safe & filing cabinet                               800                     720      90          10
Office furniture                                    200                      40      20          10
Moisture meter, hand huller                       1,200                   1,080      90          10
Sub-total              2,600                   2,200       85
TOTAL                 52,600                  28,810       55
Add Contingencies (10%)             5,300                    2,890      55
57,900                  31,700      55
Replancsent Requirements (incl. contingencies)
After 5 years                                    10,900                   7,700      71
After 10 years                                   17,900                  14,800      82
After 20 years                                   29,100                   9,200      32
57,900                  31,700      55



E'IHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Operating Cost of Model W&BhiOg Station (Project Implementation Unit)
Year of Operation                                         1                 2                  3 Onwards
Crop throughput (MT of clean coffee equivalent)                      40                 80                    100
A.  Land Rent                                                       600                600                    600
B.  Staff
Factory manager g                                           4,200             4,200                   4,200
Clerk 2/                                                      600               600                     600
Watchman                                                      730                730                    730
Seasonal labor 2  2                                         1,800             3,600                   4,500
7,330             9,130                  10,030
C. Supplies
Fuel and oil                                                  240                480                    600
Bags                                                          400                800                  1,000
Stationery and postage                                        400                500                    600
Other                                                         200                200                     200
1,240             1,980                   2,400
D. Services
Maintenance and repairs 4/                                    500              1,000                   1,250
Factory access road maintenance 2/                            700                700                     700
1,200             1,700                   1,950
TOTAL              10,370             13,410                  14,980
g Full time.
E 120 days per annum only.
/ 12 laborers in Year 1; 24 in Year 2 and 30 in Year 3.
Eccluding major replacements considered as capital investments
/ Average of 1.5 km/factory, at E$450/km per annum.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
A. Introduction
1.        The Imperial Ethiopian Government (IEG) hopes that the cooperative
movement will be able eventually to assume responsibility for the 70 washing
stations to be established along the roads which are to be constructed under
the project in the Sidamo and Deressa Awrajas of the Sidamo Province.
However, in these two Awrajas, as elsewhere in Ethiopia, the cooperative
movement is new and undeveloped. There are three existing primary societies
in the coffee sector there, one of which runs its own hullery and washing
station and is doing quite well; the other two are still in the early stages
of their development and as yet only act as agents for their members for
marketing and in obtaining the services of a private sector hullery. It
would not be realistic to expect that adequately managed primary societies
could be formed in time to take over responsibility for the proposed 70
washing stations as soon as they are built. An operationally independent
unit of the National Coffee Board (NCB) - to be known as the Project Imple-
mentation Unit (PIU) - would therefore be established with strong central
management and control, to build and operate all 70 washing stations. At
the same time, PIU would attempt to stimulate the formation of primary
cooperative societies of coffee farmers. When such societies have been
sufficiently developed, they would be encouraged to take over washing
stations from PIU, whose central services they would continue to use for
marketing, accotnting and technical advice, until a Cooperative Union of
such societies could be established to assume responsibility for those
central services as well.
2.        In the absence of suitable alternative organizations, PIU would
also be used to carry out the road construction program in Sidamo Province,
supervise road construction in Kaffa Province, provide technical services
to all sub-projects (including the survey of existing private sector
washing stations in Sidamo Province) and carry out the proposed preparation
of follow-up projects.
3.        As the NCB does not have the powers to engage in commercial
activities, PIU's establishment (by Resolution of the NCB Board) will have
to await Parliamentary approval of such powers, which will be sought at the
same time as Parliamentary ratification of the Development Credit Agreement.
PIU's establishment, in a form satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
B. Policy Guidance and Control
4.        Overall policy guidance and control over PIU would be exercised
by the NCB Board, whose membership, powers and responsibility are described
in detail in the first five paragraphs of Annex 3.
5.        Since NCB's Board cannot normally meet sufficiently frequently to
provide effective policy guidance and control over PIU during the project
construction period, the NCB resolution establishing PIU would also establish
an Executive Committee of the NCB Board for this purpose. The Executive
Committee would comprise one representative of each member of the NCB
Board - i.e. representatives of the Ministers of Commerce and Industry,
Agriculture, Finance and Interior; of the President of the Addis Ababa
Chamber of Commerce; and of the Managing Director of the Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank - as well as the Executive Secretary of
the NCB itself and the Head of the Cooperative Department in the Ministry
of National Community Development and Social Affairs.
6.        As part of its overall policy guidance and control over PIU, the
Executive Committee would in particular:
(a) review the annual plans and budget of PIU for submission to
the NCB Board;
(b)  acting upon the recommendations of PIU's chief executive and
administrative officer (the Project Manager), appoint or
dismiss the chief officers of each of PIU's Sections (which
are described below);
(c) coordinate the activities of Ministries and Agencies participating
in the project;
(d) approve proposals from the Project Manager to incur financial
obligations with a maturity longer than one year; to dispose of
any PIU washing station (including transfer to a cooperative
society); or to initiate the construction of any washing
station.
7.        The NCB would adopt by resolution a statement of PIU Operating
Policies and Procedures which would provide the framework within which PIU
would operate, in particular in regards to the conditions under which PIU
would transfer its washing stations to the cooperative movement. The present
proposals in this regard have been briefly described in paragraph 5.06 of
this report, but it is probable that considerable changes would have to be
introduced during the project in the light of actual experience in the pro-
motion and development of the cooperative movement. If, for any washing
station, it should prove impractical to develop a suitable cooperative, IEG
would eventually be faced with the decision whether to allow PIU to contine
its existence indefinitely as a self-financing government service agency
or to allow it to dispose of the washing station to the private sector. The
in:Ltial statement of PIU Operating Policies and Procedures would be adopted



ANNEX 8
Page 3
in a form satisfactory to IDA as a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
credit; and assurances have been obtained during negotiations that any
subsequent changes would be subject to prior IDA approval.
8.        In addition to the coordinatory functions given to the Executive
Committee (see para 6(c) above), the Project Manager would be authorized
under the resolution establishing PIU to appoint advisory committees in
the project areas, as he finds necessary. In this way, PIU will be able to
keep in close contact with the farmers in the Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project
area prior to the formation of the cooperatives; with the local administra-
tions; and with the project participants in the other sub-projects.
C. Day-to-Day Management and Operation
9.        The resolution establishing PIU would provide for day-to-day
management to be exercised by a chief executive and administrative officer
(Project Manager) responsible only to the NCB Board and, between meetings
of that Board, to the Executive Committee. The Project Manager would be
a highly qualified and experienced officer capable of overseeing an
integrated washing station and road construction program and the stimulation
of cooperative development at the farmer level.
10.       Under the Project Manager would come four operating sections and
the project preparation team, each of which is described further below. An
organizational diagram is shown in Chart 1 to this Annex.
11.       Coffee Development Section.  This Section would be primarily res-
ponsible for designing, constructing (with local contractor assistance) and
operating the 70 washing stations and the experimental drier to be owned
initially by PIU; and for training operating staff. It would also carry out
the survey of existing private sector washing stations in Sidamo Province,
assist Kaffa cooperatives and estates in selecting suitable sites and
equipment; and carry out a technical appraisal, on AIDB's behalf, of all
requests for credit under the Sidamo Private Sector, Kaffa Cooperative and
Kaffa Estate sub-projects.
12.       The Coffee Development Section would be headed by a Chief Coffee
Engineer, who would be principally responsible for PIU's own stations,
assisted in this task by two Processing Assistants, a Chief Mechanic, two
Mechanics and laborers, and equipped with four 4-wheel drive vehicles.
Under the Chief Coffee Engineer, the technical services for the other sub-
projects would be the responsibility of another Coffee Engineer, assisted
by two Processing Assistants and two Mechanics (one of each for the Sidamo
Private Sector Sub-project and the Kaffa Sub-projects, respectively), and
equipped with three 4-wheel drive vehicles. Following the development
period, the Coffee Development Section would be reduced to supervising the
operation of PIU's own stations, with particular emphasis on quality control
and machinery maintenance.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
13.       The Roads Development Section would be responsible for actual
construction of the roadway for the roads in Sidamo Province and for super-
vising construction by contractors of the Kaffa Province roads and bridges
and crossings in both provinces. After the development period, this Section
would be disbanded unless needed for road maintenance purposes. Staffing
and other details of the Section are included in Annex 6: "Road D)esign
Standards and Construction Methods".
14.       In consultation with the Cooperative Department of the Ministry
of National Community Development and Social Affairs, the Cooperative
Development Section would be responsible for stimulating development of
primary societies among farmers delivering their coffee to PIU washing
stations to the point where they can take over ownership of these washing
stations. The Cooperative Development Section would be headed by a
Cooperative Leader, assisted by 18 Cooperative Field Assistants, i.e.,
about one for each four washing stations. It is expected that one primary
society could eventually manage four washing stations and that the Cooperative
Field Assistant would then become its Secretary/Manager.
15.       The Accounts and Administration Section would handle all PIU
accounts and the dispatch of washed coffee to the Addis Ababa auctions.
Provision would be made during establishment of PIU for the separation of
its accounts from other NCB accounts. PIU's accounting system would be set
up as if each washing station was independently operated; this would achieve
two objectives:
(a) to facilitate the eventual handing over of a station to
a primary society; and
(b) to enable farmers delivering their crop to a particular
washing station to be paid according to the value of
the crop they have delivered, rather than have this averaged
out over the whole of PIU's washing stations.
The Section would be headed by a Project Accountant, assisted by a Chief
Clerlc, an Assistant Accountant, clerks and bookkeepers.
16.       The Project Preparation Team would be attached to PIU for adminis-
trative reasons and to ensure close contact with the results of the project.
It would be responsible for preparinig follow-up projects in the coffee
sector, not necessarily restrict:ed to the present project areas, and for
diversification within the Sidamo project area to take advantage of the
roads and cooperative structure being set up. The Team would be headecd
by an Agricultural Economist, assisted by a full-time Agriculturalist,
part-time specialist consultants as required and support staff. It would
have two 4-wheel drive vehicles.
17.       Staff Availability.  The shortage of experienced and qualified
managerial and technical personnel within Ethiopia makes it probable that



ANNEX 8
Page 5
the following initial staff would have to be recruited abroad: the Project
Manager, the Chief Coffee Engineer, the Coffee Engineer, the Senior Roads
Engineer and Mechanical Superintendent for the Roads Development Section
(see Annex 6), the Project Accountant, the Agricultural Economist, the
Agriculturist and most of the part-time consultants. The Imperial Highway
Authority would assist in the recruitment of the staff for the Roads Devel-
opment Section and would probably be able tc second some of the middle-
echelon technicians. The Cooperative Leader would be seconded from the
Cooperative Department of the Ministry of National Community Development,
as would the 18 Cooperative Field Assistants, who would probably be recent
graduates from the Awasa Community Development Training and Demonstration
Center (see para 2.12 of the main report).
18.       After the development period, it is expected that the Project
Manager, if expatriate, would be replaced by an Ethiopian member of the
staff (probably the Cooperative Leader). Similarly it is expected that the
Chief Coffee Engineer, if expatriate, would be succeeded through promotion
of the most promising Ethiopian Processing Assistant. The other posts
likely to be filled by expatriates would be abolished following the develop-
ment period.
19.       Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the
qualifications and experience of appointees to the posts of Project Manager,
Section heads and all professional members of the Project Preparation
Team would be subject to prior IDA approval.
Financing
20.       As PIU would be a new institution, without equity, it would be
necessary for it to be 100% externally financed to begin with. Washing
station construttion would be financed 100% by loans from AIDB, which
would also supply working capital to meet washing station operating costs
and to allow the washing stations to purchase crop from farmers. Until
such time as PIU receives sufficient operating income from its washing
stations (expected to be after three years), IEG would meet PIU's headquarter
costs 1/ through grants, and it would continue to meet any PIU expenses on
expatriate staff and seconded Cooperative Department staff for a further two
years. Thereafter, all PIU expenses could be met from self-generated funds.
Further details of PIU headquarters costs (other than for road construction,
project preparation and the experimental drier) are given in Table 1 to
this Annex. Operating results for PIU as a whole, including the washing
stations, are shown in Annex 14.
21.       No financial provision has been made for the costs of office
buildings or of houses for staff. It is expected that PIU headquarters
would be in Dilla or Awasa, Sidamo Province. In both places, suitable
buildings are already available, or would be readily made available, for
rent, and PIU should not need to construct any such buildings.
1/   Including services which PIU will provide other sub-projects, road
construction, construction of the experimental drier, and the preparation
of follow-up projects.






E T H I O P I A
COFFEE ?ROCESS5IG 9ROJEC7
Projct  ,evieeetatfo   Unt   edsusntc  Costa
(in E$ 0OO)
(excluding c-sts of road cocotruction  nd project preparation tern)
1971/72 6/1972/732/   1223L79   12974/751/   1975/76    1976/77             1977/78      1978/79    1979/8        19780/SI7
r. Cash Costs
A.  Stff
ProJect Manager (preanned expatriate)                                           15          60           60           60         40'L7A/
ft.j..t  Acuoutant (pr-soedeparte                                              13           50          50           50        5so2J           376/          --                        
Deputy Project Manger (becowing Hawager is 1976/77)                                         -           -            -          16            20            24           24          24            24            24
Coffee Processing Efigieera (Pre.uxed eXpatriate) 3/                           50          100          100          100         50!/          -             -            -           -            -
Coffee Processing Engineer 6/                                                  _                         -           -                         1-            18           18          18           18            18
Cooperative Leader 4/                                                           6           12           12           12        l2o/           12i1          12           12          12           12
Proesaing A.ai.t  t. 25/                                                         9           36          36           36         18            18            18           18          18           18            18
Chief Mechnic                                                                                 9           9            9          9             9             9            9           9            9             9
Chief Cianc                                                                      2            7           7            7          7             7             7            7           7             7            7
Assistant Accoontant                                                             2            6           6            6          6             6             6            6           6            6             6
Cooperatice Field Assistants 6/                                                 15          60           90         108        108_/          109i/         108          108         108          108           lo1
Clerks                                                                                        7           7            7        11            51             11           71          11           11            11
Bookkeepers                                                                     4             8           8           13         13            13            13           13          13           13            13
Mechanics 7/                                                                                 20          20           20         10            10            10           10          10           10            10
Tnpaists                                                                                      3          6            6          6              6             6            6           6            6             t
Laborers                                                                                      2           4            4          2             2             2            2           2            2             2
D, _riv                                                                          1            4           4            4          4             4             4            4           4            4             4
Messenger                                                                        1            1           2            2          2             2             2            2           2            2             2
Sub-total                    124         385         421          444        369            283           250         250          250          250           234
B. 5ehicles
6-Dasseager. 4-heeld4rive hi 1e|
-oin1t1 l  -ost    d       vehcles                                           Z8           168         70           70         56.6/          -           140           70           70           42            - _
-  omerating costs                                                            8           42          57           72         75            72            72           72          72           72             c9
Sub-total                    36          210         127          142        131             72           212          142         142          114            692/
C.  Other
Office Furcit-re end Equiprent                                                  -            23           1            5         -             -             -             3           3            3             3
Other operating co-ts                                                            4           13          19           19         24            24            24           24          24           24            24
Sub-totel                     4           36          20           24         24            24            24           27          27            27            27
TOTAL                       164          631         568          610        524           379           486          419         419          391            3342/
CoctSogencies                 6            29         42           50         56            41            44           41           41           39            3(2/
3211D TOTAl                 170          66D         610          660        580           420           530          460         460          430            3(02
SII Pinsc,ncd By
IT. fj-ed BY                                                          1~~~~~~~~70  460         615          600        300           170            -                          -           -              -
PIo  Grtr 1p-_ tin6 incoss6 -23°- 280                                                                                                         750           530          460         460         b3.            37o
170         660         610          660        580           420            530          460         460         430            370
I/ Considered as capital Co-Ms
2/  O.s wold dal with the Sid-m  Coopevotive Sub-Project, the other kith the other -ub-proj-cto it Sid--o  -cl Kaffa provin-ce
3/  Pro-uced to be pro-oted fron one of thl Pr c.s...ig Assistant po-tt.
4/  S0ecoodd fron the Coop.r-tiv- Dspariexnt through 1976/77; theferfter paid fotr by PIU.                      -A.r L-  --Id b. epoy.d f- 72173 throush 74175 L. hmdl. th. oher -b-p-j-t  in Sid                              -d K.ff. P-i-
3/  T-oI t he .secon.d half of 1971/72 end thorrofter to deal etth the Sidec   CoOPer-tivo  Scr. Prole-.  Acorrortocudh   rhlydio    27   hog   47   ohni   h   tx   o-rjct   cfAesdCfa oios
37  5 to thr  erond halt of 1971172  10 to 1972173, 15 in 1973/74 sod 10 th-rcftOt   Secoded by the C                  tr4ivo DoptcOct f-r 5 po,ther-ot-r paid for by PT0.
2/  2 from  1972/73 occards to handle th.e Sido                                            f1m 1970/73 th-;rou 1C974 75 t ,hcilo tie te,p  Ou-p-j-t,
9/  28 vehicles icitia11y, of E14,000 cool, i-clodisc 05,000  -t-on  dotY; -c   -!,h fur the Soje-t Hoosie. the ProJect A--ootant, tho Coffee Proo....  in9Egin--o  the Coopo...ti-o Lo-der. tshe Process,i
the Chief Mlechnic end rho  C.opec-tis  A-sinLotS. Th. 23 -chiclee ceodod by 0IU- on- indeficlit  busic or  r-pOS-d every 5 y-ar..o   eitlc
9/   The repI-Oe-oOt cost of vehicles in ,epooed e--oy five yeers theoreftef t
10/   Coveriog a11 PlU hendqnnter-  ecpecdittrne  through 1974/75 sod .sp.triuto  -od o-conded  -coycrhtivo st f br-ogh 1976/77.






ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
NATIONAL COFFEE BOARD
MINISTER OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY (CHAIRMAN)
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
MINISTER OF FINANCE                                               EXECUTIVE SECRETARY,
MINISTER OF INTERIORNAIALCFEBOR
PRESIDENT, CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF ADDIS ABABA
MANAGING DIRECTOR, AGRICULTURAL AND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
EXISTING STAFF OF THE NATIONAL
COFFEE BOARD FOR REGULATION
AND CONTROL OF THE ETHIOPIAN
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE                            COFFEE INDUSTRY
REPRESENTATIVES OF EACH MEMBER OF THE
NATIONAL COFFEE BOARD
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY, NATIONAL COFFEE
BOARD
HEAD OF THE COOPERATIVE DEPARTMENT,
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ACCOUNTS AND ADMINISTRATION              ROADS DEVELOPMENT                  COFFEE DEVELOPMENT               COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT               PROJECT PREPARATION
SECTION                            SECTION                            SECTION                             SECTION                              TEAM
PROJECT ACCOUNTANT                 SENIOR ROADS ENGINEER                CHIEF COFFEE ENGINEER                COOPERATIVE LEADER               AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIST
CHIEF CLERK                       MECHANICAL SUPERINTENDENT            COFFEE ENGINEER                    COOPERATIVE FIELD ASSISTANTS        AGRICULTURALIST
ASSISTANT ACCOUNTANT               ASSISTANT SENIOR ENGINEER           PROCESSING ASSISTANTS                                                  CONSULTANTS (PART TIME)
CLERKS                             CONSTRUCTION UNIT SUPERVISORS       CHIEF MECHANIC                                                         COUNTERPARTS
BOOKKEEPERS                        GANG LEADERS                        MECHANICS
MECHANICS                           LABORERS
SURVEYORS, LABORERS                                                                                                                            9
THE PROJECT MANAGER ALSO ACTS AS SECRETARY TO THE                                                                                                                             D 
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND TO THE NATIONAL COFFEE
BOARD ITSELF WHEN THE LATTER IS DEALING WITH PROJECT
MATTERS.
IBRD - 5475(R)






E T H I O P I A
COFFEE PSOCESSINI PROJECT
Project Cost Estieates
( in E$' 000)
1971/72     1972/73      1973/74      1974/7)    1975/76       1976/77    1977/78    TotLI   - of which foreign exchange componert
I.   Sidamo Cooperative Sub-Project 3/
Washing Station Constrmotion                                      -        1,052        1,841          789          -            -          _       3,682      2,017           55
Road construction ./                                              82       2,274          592            -          -            -          _       2,,,8       2,o64          70
PTU I'Q 9/                                                      164         631          568           610        331          157          _      2,nnl       1,032           42
Exbperimental Drier                                               -           -            60           -           -            -          -          60          28          47
Incremental working Capital 2/                                    -                       142          371         306          105         29        953          -            -
Increametal Crop Finance /-                                                   -           519        1,6o0       1,911        1,102        228      5,360          -            -
;3UB-TOTAL                      246        3,957       3,722         3,370      2,348        i,364         257    15,464       5,141           33
II. Sidamo Pricate Sector Sub-Project
Washing Station Construction  /                                              263          789          526          _     -                 -       1,578        864           55
Washing Station Modification  /                                   -           72          126           54          _            _          -         252        214           85
SSB-TOTAL                        -           335         915           580         -            -           -      1,830       1,078           59
III. Kaffa Cooperative Sub-Project
Feeder Road Construction  l                                       _           82          246                       -                       -         328        200           61
Factory Access Road Construotion 2                                            27          162           81          -            -          -         270        162           60
Minor river crossings LO/                                         -            6           24            6          _            -          -          36         14           40
Washing Station Consirtction g/                                   -          105          631          316          _           _           -       1,052        576           55
SUB-TOTAL                        -           220       1,063           403          -           _           -      1,686         952           56
IV. Kaffa Estates Sub-Project
Washing Station Construction                                      -           53          316          157          _            _          -         526        288           55
SUB-TOTAL                       -            53          316          157         _            _           _         526        288           55
V.  Technical Aani.tance Activities
Project Preparation Tesso                                           -          100          210          2910        5            9                     520        350          67
Research                                                            24         18o          116           96         96           96          -         608         77           13
Coffee Survey                                                      150         300          300          150         -            -           -         900        360          40
SB_-TOTAL                       174         580          626          456          96          96          -       2,028        787           39
VT.  Contingencies                                                       42         515          664          497         264           84         13      2,079      1,020           49
TO0AT                           462       5,660        7,306        5,463       2,908       1,544         270      23,613     9,266           39
US $o0o0 Equivalent                                                195      2,264         2,922        2,185      1,163          618         108      9,445      3,706
3/ Including PTU technical services to other Sub-Erojects.
3/ For cost of construction of a single washing station, see Annex 7 Table 1.
For further details, see Anoes 6 Table 1.
7  Fur further details, see Anne-  8 Table 1.
F/ _or washing station operating costs.
To finance payment to farmers on delivery of crop at approximateiy 80CT of filat v-lu-.
7/ Average amo.unt of E$3,600 per each station.
40 km L E$8,200/km.
9/ 6o k.0 Ce F4,500/km.
33/ For butt feeder and factory acress roads



ANNEX 10
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
(in US$'000)
Disbursements      Undisbursed
3RD/IDA           Quarter        during Quarter      Of  Quarter
1971/72              4                                   6,300
1972/73              1                 50                6,250
2                50                 6,200
3               920                 5,280
l4              510                 4,770
1S73/74             1               600                 4,170
2               250                 3,920
3               1460                3,1460
4               730                 2,730
1974/75              1               910                 1,820
2               330                 1,490
3               220                 1,270
34              320                   950
1975/76              1               470                   1480
2               180                   300
3                50                   250
4                50                   200
1976/77              1                40                   160
2                140                  120
3                30                    90
4                3)                    60
1977/78              1                 30                    30
2                30



ANNEX 11
Page   1
EHiIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Credit Policies and Procedures
General
1.        Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that, unless IDA
agrees otherwise, the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
would follow the policies and procedures set out below in carrying out the
medium-term and long-term credit aspects of the project. AIDB would determine
sucal further policies and procedures, not inconsistent with those set out
below, as amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank, as it
may feel necessary for the orderly conduct of its business in accordance
with sound banking practices.
Loan Appraisal Procedures
2.        Loan applications would be subject to individual appraisal.
Decisions to lend under the project, or to reject an application, would be
taken by a nominated senior AIDB official, whose experience and qualifications
would be satisfactory to IDA, on the basis of written reports on the technical
aspects of the proposed investment (includinz its estimated net income
generation) and on the financial position and prospects of the potential
borrower, provided that decisions to lend taken by thie nominated official
may be subject to prompt review at other levels of AIDB management.
3.        The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would provide AIDB with the
written report on the technical aspects of all proposed investments, other
than those to be made by PIU itself. Such report would, inter alia, review
the proposed washing station site, design and equipment, with specific
reference to hiygienic pulp disposal; the management capability of the
potential borrower as evidenced by his existing involvement in coffee
growing or processing; arrangements made for tecinical training of the
potential washing station manager, wherever necessary; and whether the
waslhing station could be constructed by the owner or would need to be con-
structed by contractors supervised by PIU. In the case of a loan application
from a Kaffa cooperative for the construction of a washing station, the
teclnical report would include a review of the potential supply of crop
to that station from existing members of that cooperative. In the case
of a loan application from a Kaffa estate or group of estates for the
construction of a washing station, the technical report would include a
review of the potential supply of crop from that estate or group of estates.
No application, except from PIU itself, for a loan to construct or modify
a washing station in Sidamo Province would be considered unless the application
resulted from the survey of existing stations to be carried out under the
project.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
4.        The written report on the financial position and prospects of
potential borrowers, other than PIU, would be prepared by AIDB staff
following investigation and would include recommendations concerning the
tern of the proposed loan (including grace period, if any), the down-payment
to be made by the potential borrower and the security to be taken.
5.        No technical or financial report would be required in the case of
proiposed investments by PIU, since the loan agreement with NCB (on PIU's
behalf) would need to be entered into prior to the final selection of
washing station sites, and prior to its entry into business. The decision
to lend would be taken on the basis of IDA's appraisal report and suci
other investigation as AIDB considers necessary.
Security on Loans
6.        Mortgages and other security as may be reasonably available would
be taken to cover loans. However, in the absence of legal provision for
chattel mortgages in Ethiopia, the uncertain land tenure arrangements under
which farmer members of cooperatives hold their land, and the need to pledge
most of the crop to obtain working capital for crop finance, the inability
of a potential borrower to provide security for the wlhole of a proposed
loan would not of itself be considered a bar to lending. Rather, emphasis
would be placed on the estimated net income generation of the proposed iil-
vestment and the general financial situation and management capability of
the potential borrower.
Loan Agreements
7.        AIDB would enter into a loan agreement or loan agreements with
each borrower. The loan agreement to be entered into with NCB(on PIU's
belhalf) would be subject to prior approval by IDA. The loan agreements
to be entered into with other borrowers would be in a form satisfactory
to IDA.
8.        Notwithstanding paragraphs 2 and 6 above, AIDB would not enter
into any loan agreement with any borrower, other than NCB (on behalf of PIU),
which would raise the total amount committed under that, or any other AIDB
loao agreement under the project with that same borrower, to more thaii
E$100,000, without first obtaining thle approval of IDA.
Loan Terms, Grace Periods and Down-PAyments
9.        Loan terms, grace periods and down-payments to be made by borrow-
ers would be determined by AIDB in the light of its apTraisal of loan ap-
plications, subject to the following limits:
(a)  NCB (on behalf of PIU):  term not exceeding 15 years,
including a grace period not exceeding 4 years, with
no down-payment necessary;
(b)  Owners of existing washing stations in Sidano Province
borrowing for minor modifications: term averaging 3



ANNEX 11
Page 3
years including grace period of one year, subject to
maximum term of 4 years, including grace period of one
year; down-payment averaging about 50%, with minimum
of 40%;
(c)  Other borrowers:  term averaging about 10 years, including
grace period of one year, subject to maximum term of 12
years, including grace period of one year; down-payment
averaging about 30%, with minimum of 25%.
Interest
10.       All loans would carry interest of not less than 9-1/2% and not
more than 12% per annum. Interest would be paid out of the proceeds of the
NCB loan during the construction period, subject to a limit of 4 years.
Procurement
11.       AIDB would ensure that procurement of items to be financed by its
loans under the project would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement between IDA and the Imperial Ethiopian Govern-
ment.
Disbursements
12.       W4herever feasible, loans would be disbursed in kind, following
bulk procurement using international competitive bidding procedures, or by
payments direct to suppliers and contractors.
Repaynents of Principal and Interest
13.       Repayments of principal and interest due in any year running
from September through August would be made in two or more installments as
determined by AIDB, provided that the first installment falls due not later
than December 31 and the last installment falls due not later than March 31.
Supervision
14.       AIDB would arrange for PIU to supervise construction and
initial operation of borrowers' washing stations. In addition, AIDB's
own staff would make on-site inspections during construction suffi-
ciently frequently to ensure that each loan was being used for the intended
purposes, and at least twice each processing season thereafter until the
loan had been repaid.
15.       AIDB would ensure that borrowers kept satisfactory accounts to
be audited annually in a manner satisfactory to AIDB, and that such audited
accounts would be made available promptly to AIDB.
16.       AIDB would ensure that borrowers maintain the equipment financed
by its loans in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
Transfers of Property
17.       AIDB would ensure, througlh its loan agreements or otherwise,
thatt no washing station constructed with the proceeds of an AIDB loani would
be transferred from the borrower's direct ownership while the borrower re-
mained indebted to AIDB, except as AIDB should otherwise agree.
December 22, 1971



E T H I O P I A
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Washed Coffee Production Forecasts (in MT)
1969/70       170/7       1971/72       1972/73    1973/74     1974/75       17/76       1976/77    1977/78
8idamo CooperativeB
Existinlg stations     -                        100           100         100          100         100         100           100         100        100
PIUt stations                                  1 0             -           -             -        600        2,600        5,100        6,600     7,000
Sub-total                  100           100          100          100        700       2,700         5,200       6,700      7,100
Sidsmo Private Sector
Existing stations, without the project 2/   7,500          10,300      11,200       11,200      11,200      11,200       11,200       11,200    11,200
Incremental effect of project a/                 -             -           -                  -          -                  200        1,000     1,000
Sub-total                7,500        10,300      11,200        11,200     11,200      11,200        11,400      12,200    12,200
Kaffa Cooperatives  #/                                                                                200       1,200        1,900        2,000     2,000
Kaffa Estates  / )/                                               -           -            -          100         600           900       1,000      1,000
Otheri/                                          2,400         2,600       2,900        3,200       3,500       3,900         4,300       4,700      4,700
Totals           10,000        13,000      14,200        14,500     15,700      19,600        23,700      26,60o    27,000
j Constructed as per phasing shown in Annex 5, each washing station producing 40 MT in its first year of operation, 80 MT in the second year
and 100 MT/annum thereafter.
2J  Assuming that none would be closed down; and that no new stations would be licensed.  Large inerease of 1970/71 production over 1969/70
level is due to coming-into-operation of new stations built during 1969/70.
3/  Through 1974/75 it is assumed that increased capacity from proposed modifications and rebuilding  would be about equally off-set by cloa-
ures of inadequate facilities. The overall increase in production is expected to be about 1,000 M1T/annum eventually.
Constructed as per phasing shown in Annex 5, each washing station producing 80 MT in its first year of operation, and 100 MT/annum there-
after.
5/ Only including those borrowing under the project.
§ Outside the project areas, and some Kaffa Estates not borrowing under the project.
/ Preliminary estimates based on available capacity of washing stations for the 1970/71 season. Because of severe speculation in
coffee during the harvest season (last quarter of 1970), it appears that only about 3-4,000 tons may have been delivered to washing
stations for processing,






ANNEX 13
ETHIOPIA                          Page 1
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
World Outlook for Coffee
Intro duct ion
1.    Arnbica, primarily growm in the Western Hemisphere and parts of Eastern
Africa, and ;bbusta, grown mainly in Africa, are the two principal varieties
of coffee.  Arabicas Pre, however, further divided on quality grounds into
"iColombian M4ilds", "Other Milds" and "Unwashed Arabicas". Although coffee is
grown entirely in developing countries, a relatively small proportion of the
crop is consumed there, the rest being exported.  About 90< of total coffee
exports generally go to the developed countries, 5, to the centrally planned
countries and 5.9 to non-producing developing countries. Further information
on coffee types and processing methods is given in Annex 1.
Present Trends
2.    In recent years coffee prices have experienced sharp fluctuations.  This
is  rimarily due to rapid changes in the world supply/demand situation for
coffee. During the last five years the world production of coffee was below
world consumption. However, these shortfalls have caused little concern and,
indeed, are regarded ns beneficial, because of the availability of more than
ample stucks mainly held by Brazil. Prices consequently remained weak until
the market reacted to widespread frost damage to the Brazilian crop in July
1969. Prices declined again in late 1970 as favourable weather conditions
led to a sharp recovery in Brazilian output (Table 1). Nbrld output in 1971/72,
expected to be about 72 million bags (Table 2), should match projected con-
sumption requirements. Present world stocks now amount to about nine months
of export demand, which stock level is considered somewhat on the low side.
Thus, for the first time since the early 1950's, world production and consump-
tion of coffee are in approximate balance within the context of a manageable
stock position.
Fature Outlook
3.    It is expected that, world coffee production will reach about 851 illion
bags in the mid-seventies, and is expected to rise sharply thereafter- .
This projection was derived by aggregating country estimates and by taking
into account country policy plans submitted to the International Coffee Organi-
zatioji (I.C.O.), and assuming that some 600 million trees will be planted in
Brazil by 1975, as planned. It also assumed thrt another major frost will
not occur in Brazil for the next few years and that expansion of coffee produc-
tion elsewhere in the world will remain within reasonable limits of the goals
established by the I.C.O.
I/ For further details see: "aimmaries of Medium-Term and Long-Term Price
Forecasts for Selected Individual Commodities by the Bank Staff", IBRD,
SecM71-92 - February 22, 1971.



ANNEX 13
Ptmfe 2
L.    The annual rate of increase in the world demand for coffee is declining
and is expected to continue to decline - the 1965/70 average rate of inerecise
was about five per cent; the rate of increase is expected to be only about two
per cent in the next few years. The decline in the growth rate of demand for
coffee in most of the West European countries is explained to a lerge extent
by declining income elasticities of demand es confirmed by a regression analysis
of per capita consumption of coffee and total consumption expenditure.  For
instance, between 1955-1962 and 1960-1968, the income elasticity of demand
for coffee declined from 0.90 to 0.51/in the Federal Republic of Germany and
from 0.75 to 0.53 in the Netherlands- . The future total demand for coffee
in t'he United States does not appear likely to change significantly.  This is
due to institutional and socio-economic factors and competition from cold
drin'ks.  The per capita consumption of all hot beverages in the United  `tates
has declined in recent years. Fewer people now drink coffee and those who
drink it take less coffee than before. Young people prefer cold drinks.
Furthermore, as the number of working wives increases, they drink less coffee
than they did as housewives. However, the decline in per capite consumption
Tn the United States is expected to be offset by the increase in the population.
The recent rapid rate of growth in Japan's consumption is expected to continue
for some years since the absolute level is still relatively low; however, the
rate of growth is expected to decline somewhat as per capita consumption
increases. In the centrally planned countries, Government import policies
largely determine the pattern of coffee consumption.  Although some Latin
American and African countries have entered into bi-lateral contracts with
some of the centrally planned countries to enlarge their markets there, no
significant increase is foreseen.  In view of these developments, it is expected
that by the mid-70's about 63 to 65 million bags/would need to be exported to
meet demand at the prices forecast(see Table 1) - 'compared to some 57 million
bags in 1971. Thus, annual production by the mid-70's is expected to be
about 20 million bags above export demand. Some of these surpluses w.uuld be
consumed in producing countries and some go to building up stocks to more
appropriate levels.
5.    The mid-70's equilibrium level is projected to be below the price level
of 1'370, when the full effects of the Brazil frost reached the market, but
somewrhat above the average price obtained in 1969, when the supply/demand
situation was somewhat similar. By the end of the 70's, the increasinfv presslure
of fresh surpluses, unless successfully curtailed by the International Coffee
Agreement, would force prices to decline further.  The Bank's projection of
equilibrium prices for 1975 and 1980 are given in Table 1.
6.    In the intervening period, 1972 - 197h, tl market is expected to remain
uncertain, with a tendency for prices to fluctuate between the 1970 and the
mid-T'O's level. This reflects the approximate balance between supply and
demand, which would cause prices to be sensitive to changes in the Brazilian
crep and Brazilian export policies.
1/ For further details see: "Summaries of Medium-Term and Long-Term Price
Forecasts for selected Individual Commodities by the Bank Staff", IBdD,
/ecM71-92 - February 22, 1971.
n teras of the pre-devaluation US lollar.  It is too early to say .h?t
efFect the devaluation of the US dollar wTill have on these proif)fl'-.
See paragraph 6.0l1 of the mailn report.



ANNEX 13
Table   I
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE  PROCESSDIG  PLOJECT
Coffee Prices by Types, 1960 to 1971, and Projections to 1980
(US Cents per Pound, Spot New York)
GuatemaLa            Brazil
Colombian Mams    Prime Washed          Santos        Anola Ambriz 2AA
(Washed Arabica)   Washed Arabica)(Unwashed Arabica)    (Robusta)
1960              44.9             4L.3                 36.6              25.3
1961              43.6             37.5                 36.0               19.9
1962             !4o.8             35.8                 34.0               21.6
1963             39.5              35.4                34.1                28.7
l960"             L 8.8            47.2                46.7                36.4
1965             48.5              45.5                4L.7                31.6
1966              Li7.I4           42.2                40.8                34.0
1967             4i.9              39.2                37.8               33.8
1968             42.6              39.4                37.4                3
1969              45.0              40.1               40.8                33.6
1970              56.4              51.9                5h.6               L2.0
1971 (Jan-Mov.)  48.7              44.9                44.8                42.2
In 1971 rbllars./
1975         46.o - 48.o        43.0 - 45.0         42.0 - 44.0         38 - 40
1980         44.0 - 46.0        41.0 - 43.0         40.0 - 42.0         36 - 38
Source:      1960-1970 - Pan American Coffee Bureau, Ifew York.
1/ Projected by the Trade Policies and Export Projections Division,
Dcononiics D2partment, IBhD.



ANNEX 13
T'abie 2
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCE3SflG PROJECT
.Tor'd Harvested Production oi Coffee
(Thousands of 60 kg bags)
Continent        1967/68-1969/70    1967/68          1969/70        1970/71          1971/72
Averag                                                          (Estimated)
Ilorth Aiaerica     11,443             11,667         11,921         11,U42           12,304
South Amierica     30,527              34,021         30,189        20,501            3h,729
Africa             18,773              18,444         11,659        19,279            19,459
Asia an6. Oceania   4,695               4 'l80         b,866          5,758            5,193
Total-World        65,438              68,612         66,635        56,980            7L,1_5
source:      Economics Department, I3RD, Wiashington, D.C., December 1971.



AINNEX 14
Page   1
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Markets and Prices for Ethiopian Export Coffee
Introduction
1.        A brief analysis of world coffee markets, including a projection
of coffee prices in general is presented in Annex 13.
2.        The incremental output of coffee that may result from the project
(some 1,000 tons per annum) is small, about 1% of the current Ethiopian
share of exports to quota markets (some 75-80,000 tons per annum). The
partial switcli in the techlnique of crop processing from dry to wet process,
whicih is the main result of the project, would have little bearing on mar-
ket shares because the global annual export quotas declared by the Inter-
natiolial Coffee Council are allocated to exporting members on a pro rata
basis established under the International Coffee Agreement, irrespective
of the type of coffee produced by thiem.
3.        The projected increase in the proportion of washied coffee in
Ethiopian output (rising from the current 10,000 tons to some 27,000 tons
by 1977/78 - some 11,000 tons of which increase would be due to the project -
see Annex 12) would be unlikely to affect significantly the prevailing
relationship between world market prices for washed and unwashed coffees,
since the resulting increase in world output of washed arabica would be
marginal, less than 1%. More important, wlhile the historical price different-
ial between these types tended to change at different levels of coffee
prices, tney have not been significantly distrubed by shifts in the market
snares of the two types, even in periods when the market sihare of washed
coffee was rising more rapidly than is expected in the foreseeable future.
MIarkets for Etliiopian export coffee
4.        The destinations of Ethiiopian coffee exports since 1965-66 are
given iii Table 1. A detailed break-down between washed and unwashed coffee
is not available.  The United States has taken some 70-80% of Ethiopia's
total exports, almost exclusively in thie form of unwashed arabica. Only
about 7% of total exports have been washed coffee during this period,
withl the major importer being the Federal Republic of Germany, which took
some 5,000 tons in 1969/70. Other known importers of Ethiopian washed
coffee are Norway, Sweden, Finland, France, Italy, Yugoslavia, Belgium,
Denmark and Switzerland, probably in that order of importance after Germany.
5.        As the proportion of washed coffee in Ethiopian production in-
creases, there would be a corresponding shift in Ethiopia's export markets
away from the United States (whose washed arabica needs are already being met,



ANNEX 14
Page 2
mainly from Central America) to the traditional importers of high quality
washed arabica, such as the Federal Republic of Germany. Such a shift
should not present any undue difficulties since the principal constraint
in exporting washed arabica to date has been the small Ethiopian production,
rather than any reluctance to buy on the part of importers.  Indeed, the
demand for Ethiopian washed arabica - which is of a high quality, despite
some shortcomings in production methods - has been so strong, partictularly
from Germany, that premiums have been paid for it (see below) and exporters
in Addis Ababa with close German connections have been actively encouraging'
its production, to the point of financing the construction of some washinr
statiions and the purchase of crop from farmers by washing station operators.
6.        German imports of Ethiopian washed arabica reached some 5,000
tons in 1969/70, representing about 2% of Germany's total imports of suich
coffee in that year of about 230,000 tons. German imports of washed
arabica are expected to reach 275,000 tons by 1977/78. Thus the increase
in Ethiopian production of washed arabica resulting from the project woulld
represent less than a quarter of the expected increase in demand from
Gerrmany alone.
Prices for Ethiopian export coffees -/
7.        The financial and economic analyses of the proposed investments
in the project depend largely on the differential which might be expected
between Ethiopian washed and unwashed arabica prices, and are only marginally
affected by their absolute levels.
8.        Historical data are available (see Table 2) on prices obtained for
the principal export grade of Ethiopian unwashed arabica (known as "Jimma 5),
which show that these prices are usually below the prices obtained for
Brazilian Santos 4 - the principal grade of unwashed arabica on world mar-
kets and for which the Bank has made price projections (see Annex 13). The
discount has varied from about 7 US cents/lb, CIF, New York, in 1957 to
zero in 1968, but has mostly been in the narrower range of 1-3 US cents/lb.,
averaging about 2 US cents/lb. This discount has been principally due to
the inferior methods of processing Ethiopian unwashed coffee (see Annex 2),
rather than because of any inherent quality inferiority - which statement
is st'mnorted by the very high prices which can be obtained for this same
coffee when washed under reasonahly well controlled conditions; and it is
possible that Ethiopian unwashed coffees would sell at a premium over
Brazilian Santos 4 if it were consistently well processed. Hlowever, the
difficulties involved in improving the average quality of Ethiopian unwashed
coffee are substantial and achievement of improvements of such a magnituide
as to bring about premiums over Brazilian Santos 4, on a national average
basis, is not considered probable. On the other hand, accotunt has to be
taken of the efforts being made by the Ethiopian National Coffee Board to
improve quality and of its intentions to intensify its efforts. For the
1/   In terms of the pre-devaluation US dollar.  It is too early to deter-
mine what effect the devaluation of the US dollar will have on coffee
prices.  See paragraph 6.04 of the main report.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
purposes of the financial and economic analyses made in this report,
therefore, it has been assumed that Ethiopian unwashed coffee would continue
to suffer an average discotnt of about 2 US cents/lb below Brazilian Santos
4 through 1974 but that, thereafter, there are about equal probabilities
(40% each) that the average discount would remain at that level or that
it would be halved to about 1 UIS cent/lb. It has also been assumed that
there are minor probabilities (107 each) that the average discount would
wlden to 3 UJS cents/lb or that it would disappear altogether by 1985. These
projections are shown graphically in the Chart to this Annex.
9.         For Ethiopian washed coffee, there are no reliable historical
data on export prices and it is not quoted on New York or other coffee mar-
kets. This is because production is so small and recent and most trade is
between closely linked export houses in Addis Ababa and import houses in
Europe, mainly Germany. Ilowever, the exporters and the National Coffee
Board claim that premiums are obtained over Colombian and Kenyan washed
coffees, some major German importers have confirmed that they would be
prepare(1 to pay these premiums in the future to obtain Ethiopian washed
coffee (but probably at lower levels when production is larger) and indepen-
dent tests of Ethiopian washed coffee confirm its intrinsic quality and
desirability. For the purposes of the financial and economic analyses made
in this report, thereFore, it has been assumed that Ethiopian washed coffee
would most probably sell at prices equivalent to those obtained for Kenya
washed coffees (which are themselves generally at a premium of about 1 US
cent/lb above Colombia coffees - the principal grade of washed arabica on
world markets and for which the Bank has made price projections - see
Annex 13) or at a premium of about 1 US cent/lb above Kenyas (i.e. about
2 US cents/lb above Colombians). Probabilities of 40% have been assigned
to each of these assumptions, while 10% probabilities have been assigned
to each of two outside assumptions: that Ethiopian washed coffee would sell
at a premium of 3 US cents/lb over Colombians and that it would not obtain
any premium at all. These projections are also shown graphically in the
Chart to this Annex.
10.       As noted in paragraph 7, it is the differential between the various
prices that is most important in the analysis of this project; and the
various probabilities predicted in the two preceding paragraphs are to be
interpreted solely as probabilities of relative, rather than absolute,
price levels.
Statement by the International Coffee Organization (ICO)
11.       The ICO has been consulted on this project.  It feels that, due
to the lack of basic data and the consequent uncertainty in regard to the
coffee situation in Ethiopia, it is not possible to predict the specific
impact of the project on coffee production in Ethiopia. For this reason, the
ICO intends to assist in financing the survey of the Ethiopian coffee
economy to be carried out with technical assistance from the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (and which forms an integral
part of this project). The ICO considers it desirable that the World Bank
Groun continues to inter-relate its activities in Ethiopia with those of



ANNEX 14
Page 4
the ICO or other international institutions and the Imperial Ethiopian
Government, in order to ensure that this coffee processing project specific-
al:Ly, and the coffee economy of Ethiopia in general, conform with the coulntry's
pertinent international commitments regarding coffee.
December 22, 1971



ANNEX 14
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
OOFRE PROCESSING PROJECT
ETHIOPIA's COFFEE EXPORTS
(in tons)
Destination              1965-66   1966-67  1967-68   1968-69   1969-70   1970-71
1.  U.S.A.                48,609    60,412   60,330    56,168    62,727    63,165
2.  Italy                  2,783      2,451    3,034      2,412      1,451     1,267
3.  Germany                2,522      1,1734    4,161     3,975      5,708     3,618
4.  France                 1,477      1,594    1,695      2,041      1,182     1,286
5.  Norway                   950      1,028       895     1,005        866        633
6.  Spain                    999        250       -         500        -
7.  3weden                   748        760       585       459      1,389        974
8.  Israel                   668        465       396       447        277        280
iv. Holland                  273        350       495       549        348       160
10.  Finland                  143        353       638       733      1,424        402
11.  Yugoslavia                -         -         -       1,199        500        632
12.  U. K.                    262        328       301       318        217        223
13.  Greece                   227        191       160       245        193        188
14.  Aden                     246        147       106        24        -
15.  Belgium                    95       129       126       279        152         42
16.  Denmark                   44         95       138       142        111         50
17.  Australia                 17         65        73        72         34         38
18.  Lebanon                   37         44        46        51         67         77
19.  Cyprus                    14         24        24        18         12         18
20.  Switzerland               14         16        24       481        171        332
21.  Djibouti                 -            3        60       -          -
22.  Libya                    -            2         5        10        -            5
23.  Malta                    -          -         -           3          3          3
24.  Hong Kong & Egypt         -         -         -         -            9         19
25.  Singapore                 -         -           1       -          -
26.  China                    400        820       401       512        205        932
27.  Saudi Arabia           1,343        741    1,009      1,750      1,308      3,008
28.  Canada                    -         -           4         8        -
29.  Gibraltar                   5       -           3       -          -
30.  Japan                  1,192      1,649    2,347      2,865      2,094     1,878
31.  U.S.S.R.               1,262      1,400       300     3,000        -       2,000
'2.  Hungary                  249        200       -         -          -
33.  Jordan                     9        144       -           6 
34. Kuwait                    -          -           5       -          -           25
Total              64,585    75,745   77,862    79,263    80,448    81,255
Source: National Coffee Board, Addis Ababa.



ANNEX 14
Table 2.
ETHIOPIA
COFiEE PROCESSING PROJECT
UNWASED ARABICA - COMPARATIVE PRICE DATA
(in U.S. cents per pound - spot New York)
YEARS                 BRAZIL                  ETHIOPIA
Sa.ntos 4               Jinni 
1952                   54.4                     50.7
1953                   57.9                     52.7
1954                   78.7                     72.5
1955                   57.1                     50.5
1956                   58.1                     55.7
1957                   57.0                     49.9
1958                   48.4                     44.9
1959                   37.0                     36.6
1960                   36.6                     34.8
1961                   36.0                     34.7
1962                   34.0                     32.7
1''63                  34.1                     32.7
1964                   46.7                     43.7
1965                   44.7                     42.8
1966                   40.8                     40.4
1967                   37.8                     36.8
1968                   37.4                     37.5
1969                   40.8                     37.8
1970                   54.6                     50.0



ETHIOPIA: COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT, PRICE PROJECTIONS
(SPOT  NEW  YORK, IN U.S. CENTS PER  POUND)
60                                                                                   ,
S5 5
....................... ETHIOPIAN WASHED ARABICAS:
A.ASSUMPTION-A(10% PROBABILITY)
I I                *                                                    B.ASSUMPTION-B(407 PROBABILITY)
I I                 .: *.                                                C.ASSUMPTION-C(40% PROBABILITY)
50                                                     _________*___*._ OD.ASSUMPTION-D(10% PROBABILITY)
4 5 % 1 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..,...                          ........................ ................. . ......... . ...............  A   
/; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ...-*---"". --! ". ..                                .................. [......................i 
1.                >.X    '>,                                   I~~%                                           COLOMBIAN MILDS
I        X,  ~~~~~~~-___   _                               /~~~~~~~BRAZILIAN SANTOS 4
40
-* _ 1_ .  . _._ . . . .  . . . . . . . . .._ ._ . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . _.'i
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
35
-         .  .  .   ETHIOPIAN UNWASHED  RABICAS:
I .ASSUMPTION-1(10O% PROBAB ILITY)
1, :ASSUMPTION-11(40F, PROBAB ILITY)
}                                                        III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ASSUMPTION-111(40T, PROBABILITY)
O   I   I    I            I     I            I     }       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IV.ASSUMPTION-IV(1 OT, PROBABILITY)   II
19 69  70    ` 71  '7 2    '73     7 4     75   's7 6    ' 77  '7 8     7 9    '8 0    '81   '8 2    '8 3    '8 4    '85s a  '86   7T   '88   '889    '90(
* _b_             *~~~~~~ PROJECTED                                                                                          -
ACTUAL
WORLD BANK - 5364(R)






ANNEX 15
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Cash-Flow Projections and Financial Return Calculations
Introduction
1.        The price projections for Ethiopian washed coffee and unwashed
coffee which have been used for the calculations presented In this Annex
are those indicated in Annex 14, Chart 1, as Assumptions C and III, res-
pectively, i.e.:
Washed Coffee: price per lb, CIF New York spot,
descending from 51 US cents in 1972/73 to 45 US
cents in 1978/79 and thereafter.
Unwashed Coffee: price per lb, CIF New York spot,
descending from 43 US cents in 1972/73 to 38 US
cents in 1978/79 and thereafter.
The financial results indicated below for the various sub-projects depend
largely on the differential in prices between washed and unwashed coffee
since, generally speaking, washing station owners would have to purchase
crop from farmers at prices equal to, or higher than, the prices farmers
could obtain by selling their crop for processing into unwashed coffee.
Assuming the probabilities assigned to the variouis price forecasts in
Annex 14, Chart 1, it can be shown that the probability of financial results
being as good as, or better than, those indicated below is about 70%. It
is estimated that there is abotut a 107 probability that the differential
in prices would be too small to allow washing station owners to meet their
debt service obligations. 1/
2.        The relationship between various New York CIF prices for washed
coffee and the prices exporters would be prepared to pay producers in Addis
Ababa is shown in Table 1 to this Annex; Table 2 shows the relationship
between variouis New York CIF prices for unwashed coffee and the equivalent
farm-gnte prices.
1/   As noted in paragraph 6.04 of the main report, these projections and
calculations assume that coffee prices will not be affected adversely
in terms of the Ethiopian dollar by the recent devaluation of the IUS
dollar. Therefore, all conversions from prices in US dollars have
been made in this Annex at the pre-devaluation rate of E$2.50 = US$1.00
(rather than the present rate of E$2.30 = US$1.00). Should the present
rate be used for such conversions, the various rates of return esti-
mated in this Annex would drop by 2-3%, and the probability mentioned
in the last sentence of paragraph 1 of this Annex would increase to
about 20%.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
3.        The projections also assume an increase in export duties on
washed coffee. At present, both washed and unwashed coffees bear a baslc
export duty of E$150/ton and a surtax dependent on New York spot price
quotations for Brazilian Santos 4 (an unwashed coffee), equal to E$10/ton
for each US cent by which the Brazilian Santos 4 price excee(ds 29 US
cents/lb.  This system has proved inefficient, especially at times (such
as late 1970) when Brazilian Santos 4 was in short supply and its New York
quotation sky-rocketed above corresponding washed coffee prices 1/. IEG is
now giving consideration to modifying the surtax system, to separate
washed and tnwashed coffee. Although no decision has yet been taken, it
has been assumed for the purposes of these projections that the export
duty surtax would remain as at present for unwashed coffee, but would be
changed to be dependent on New York price quotations for Colombian Mamns
(a washed coffee of high quality) for washed coffee, eqcual to ElO/ton for
each US cent by which the Colombian Mams price exceeds 33 US cents/lb.
The effect of this assumption and the price assumptions indicated in para-
graph 1 above is that washed coffee would pay an additional export duty
surtax of E$10/ton over unwashed coffee.
The Sidamo Cooperative Sub-project
4.         Table 3 contains a cash-flow projection for the Project Implemen-
tal:ion Unit (PIU). Tn view of the uncertainty as to the precise timing
of the transfer of coffee washing stations from PTIJ to individual primary
cooperative societies, this Projection assumes that all 70 washlng stations
to be constructed under this sub-project would remain indefinitely as part
of PIU.
5.         It has further been assumed that the price to be paid to participat-
ing farmers would be E$40/ton above the farm-gate price they would have
received for their coffee from hullers, after making allowance for the fact
that it is more expensive for the farmer to take his ripe cherry to the
washing station than for him to take his lighter, dried cherry to the
hullery. On this assumption, the financial rate of return on PIU's invest-
merts in its washing stations - after meeting all PIU's headquarter expendi-
tures after the initial construction period - would be about 21%; and PIU
wouild accumulate considerable profits after meeting its debt service
obligatfons to AIDB. These accumulated profits would be used to finance
replacement machinery and to assist in the building up of savings funds
for the proposed cooperatives. However, the precise mix between retaining
such profits and making higher crop payments to farmers cannot be predicted
at this time. Should it be decided, for example, that farmers should be
paid E$80/ton above the farm-gate price they would have received for their
coffee from hullers, rather than E$40/ton, the financial rate of return
on PTU's investments in its washing stations declines to about 157.
The Sidano Private Sector Sub-project
6.        Being in the same general area of operation as the Cooperative
sub-project, it is expected that the private sector washing station owners
1/   Particularly since little, if any, Brazilian coffee was actually traded
at the quoted prices.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
woulrd pay the farmers about the same premium for their crop as indicated in
paragraph 5 above. Table 4 shows the cash-flow projection for a typical
station being completely rebuilt under this sub-project. If the salary
which the owner might expect to draw for supervising the station's operation
is included as an expenditure, the financial rate of return on the invest-
ment is about 17%; if it is not included, but considered as part of the
owner's return on his investment, the financial rate of return on the in-
vestment is about 257.
7.        Investments in lesser modifications than complete rebuilding could
be expected to bring higher financial rates of return, particularly in those
cases where the choice is between making such a lesser modification and
complete closure of the station.
The Kaffa Cooperative Sub-project
8.        It is the established practice of the two cooperativeg of large
farmers which would borrow under this sub-project, for most of the headquar-
ters' management to be carried out by farmer members at no cost to the
cooperative. Its overheads are, therefore, less than for other sub-projects,
enabling these cooperatives to pay their members a premium of about E$lOO/ton
over the equivalent dry-processing price, while still leaving the cooperative
a reasonable return. A cash-flow projection for a typical washing station
is shown at Table 5, which indicates a financial rate of return of about 17%.
The Kaffa Estates Sub-project
9.        The financial analysis for the Kaffa Estates Sub-project is
virtually identical to that for the Sidamo Private Sector Sub-project,
except that the incentive payment which the latter must make to farmers
(E$40/ton) accrues to the estate owner himself. The financial rate of
return is thus somewhat higher, estimated at about 24%.
December 22, 1971






ETHOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Washed Ethopian Coffee:  Projected Prices Paid by Exporters in Addis Ababa
vE$/MT clean coffee equivalent unless otherwise stated)
1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79-onwards
Sales Revenues
New York Price (US cents/lb)               51.00    148.00      47.00      46650      46.oo     45.50      45.00
Equivalent FOB Djibouti (US cents/lb)    48-50        45.50      4450      44.400    43.50      43.00      42.50
Equivalent FOB Djibouti (E$/MT)         2,673      2,508     2,-453     2,425     2,398      2,370      2,342
Handling and Operating Costs
Addis Ababa to FOB Djibouti
Sundries l/                               151       1142       139        137       136        134        133
Packing and -ispatching                    88         88        88         88         88        88         88
Brokerage, transport, handling
and cleaning                             77         77        77         77        77         77         77
Sub-total                   316        307       304        302        301       299        298
Duties, Taxes and Other Charges
NCB Cess                                   50         50        50         50         50        50         50
Export Duty                               150       150        150        150       150        150        150
Surtax 2/                                 180        150       14C        135       130        125        120
Transaction Tax 3/                         40         36        35         35         314       33         32
Sub-total                  Th20        370       375        370        364       358        352
Prices Paid by Exporteqs ill ,cuis Ababa 1,937      1,815      1,7771     1,753     1,733      1,713      1,692
1/  Insurance, commission, finance and foreign exchange charges at about 5.66% on IOB Djibouti.
2/  Based on expected prices for "Colombian milds"    E- 10/M'? for each US cent/lb by which the spot                        @ S
price exceeds US cents 33/lb.
3/ Paid bv the exporter to the Treasury, at A rate o-I 2;-% of the purchase price in Addis Ababa.
a!  See footnote 1/on page 1 of this Annex.



ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Unwashed.Ethiopian Coffee: Projected Farm-Gate Prices a/
(in E$/MT unless otherwise stated)
1972/73       1973/74    1974/75       1975/76     1976/77       1977/78       1978/79
Onwards
Sales Revenues
New York spot price (US cents/lb)         43.00          41.00     40.00          39.50       39-00         38.50       38.oo
Equivalent FOB Djibouti (US cents/lb)   40.50            38.50     37.50          37.00       36.50         36.oo       35.50
Equivalent FOB Djibouti (E$/MT)        2,232         2,122      2,067          2,039      2,012         1,984        1,957
Handling and Operating Costs 1J          497            491       488            486        485           483          482
Value of Production at Farm-Gate      1,735          1,631      1,579          1,553      1,527         1,501        1,475
Duties, Taxes and Other Charges
Part of NCB Cess 2|                       25             25        25             25          25           25           25
Export Duties                            150           150        150            150        150           150          150
Surtax 3                                 160           140        130            125        120           115          110
Transaction Tax 4                         31             30        29             29          28           28           28
Municipal Tax   5                         13             13        13             13          13            13          13
Sub-Total            379           358        347            342        336           331          326
Farm-Gate Cash Price                   1,356         1,273      1,232          1,211      1,191         1,170        1,149
1   See Annex  16 Table 2.
v That part of NCB cess passed on to ICO: Us$0.60 per bag of 60 kg (equivalent to E$25/MT).
Based on expected prices of "Santos 4",see Annex  14 : E$10/MT for each cent (US)/lb by which the spot price of
"Santos 4" exceeds 29 US cents/lb.
Paid by the exporter to the Treasury, at a rate of 2%o of the purchase price in Addis Ababa.                           X 
/  Paid by the huller in the project area, at a  rate of 1% of the purchase price to the producers.                        e 
a/ See footnote 1/on page 1 of this Annex.



COFFEE P51OCE0020 PROJECT
Cash-FlowPoeto-PoetIpesoto    nt(n0   000)  (En-loden Road Conairntion and ProJect Prep-Ftioc team coats)
1971/72   1972/73   197(3/74    1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   0978/79   1979/80   1980/61   1981/82   1982/53   1983/84   196~4/85   1985/86    1964/07   196 7/86    1988/02    1909'19,   19,:791)   19931/00                         1992/99    1993/91   1,941/95
0  CapItal Ite-
Washig Stat-cs  C-cts-oto-
and replaceasn   It-a  j/ - -         (-I)i-      L158       2026         869         -           -         164.        381        2806                               433       1000        576          -                      64        381         218---                                                 
Int-tet dorieg Co..atroctioc                        55        011         399                     -          -                            --   - -         -          -           -          ---                               -------
Sot-Total --                    ~1213       227          2390                              016        381         211-                             77           41        3--                      -        I0-n                    947                                                     
Slarer Tecca   -ee  Co-e-t--c-l-n    -           -            6         -          -           -          -           -          -           -          --- 227  -8                                    -                    -6         -7           -                      -- 
,ihta           i-rtt ti-pnpntre /     10         60          8i         66         90          17          -           -          -           -          -           -          -          -------- -  -                                                                                                        -6
Total  - - -                      1T70      17          219        99           8           7         11          91        0T                       7        m            c        37-                                  C1        Th20                   7-z          77 -m1--
n.  Fiaaa-d by
IEGCra-t                                170        660        676         640        300         170                                                                                                                           --------
AIDB L.a                                 -        1213       2237        1298          -          --3-6                                                                               -  -                                      --------
PM' 0'Raoa-n-ss-c-- - 2)                           --          -           -          -                     164       _381         210                               433        10052       576          -          -.64                  381        218-----
Tctal - - -170                              1873        391        1090        900         170        T0           0           9          -          -          1733      1002      Th578(         -                                          -2 31 30177-                                  
II  Sec-ret Stea
Isles of Crop ts.p-rter---  (3-                     -         1009      4:617       8940      11490       11991      11844       11041       11044      L1044      11844      ijOlo,      11844      i86         14411844   118. l4l      94       ni864       t1844      11864         i'8)         9394       3184
Prtass of Crop 9/                        -          -         0n         9424       6Cio       0422        8785       0638        8630       8638        8638       8638       86398       0638        8638       86j8       8638        0038       0038        8638       8636          8698       6787        2468
Waahiag Station Op-eti,,g Coa- 5/ -                 -          158        964        901        1717       1049        i4  1049  16 49 16            49 10       49 16      49 1049        1      049 lOn       g       1049   09        1049        iO4b       1049       1649          1649         825        300
Rap-riasatal Dryer Opertto--                                    -          10         12          12         12          12         12          12         12          12         1l          ---                               -----
SQ Operting Owpecditcr  9/               -          -           -          -         280         250        530         467        462        4}0         370         524        647        447         418        370         524        887        447         4i6        370           370        200         100
MarketIng Costa to Addis Ababa  4/ -                             4        187        387         475        491         697        49o         490        490         491        691         490        491        491         491        490         490        690         490          490         3805       ion
Sob-Total           …           (4-)---    --            O-56(     8105       9I770     -101-76     1-0073     10651       1 T 9      -10619      05937        013)7     10636      10624       10597      19167       1071       901)       '5907       109         007107                   7237        7
0.   -trnlog Toc-  )73) - (4_7 - -  (5)-               -          74        427         770       164        ii18        1188       1195        1225       1900        1131       1200        1220       1231        1297       11.43       1220       1220       1251        1290         1297        1019        376
Roo:Clclto  -/75  - 7 ()- - - -         (:158)    (4952)        ):,47)       770       1262         954        907        977        1225       1,285        698        206         646       1251        1797        919         809       1002       1251        1237         1297        1019        376
d.  Debt Derice                                                                                                                      FnnIlFt   fPtr                    1
RePaYttet of 0TB1-0ke  9/ - - - (6:-                -           -          -         644         703        705    75   705  70            5        705  70       5        705  791          75         7315        (05         -----
.Net Os-o
(after debt esei-c),T)-s))    -(7                   -           74        421        075         557        413        489         491o       520         500         424        909        515         544        592        1143       1220       1270        1Ž51       1297          1297       151,~        376
Cash  inn 9/ -d7/7-(217                  -          -           74        427        325         55         P4,9        102        272         990        o8n         (7,       (491)        (nl)       540         592        979        839        1002       1251        1291,        1297       1019         376
Co-lttee Cast Pibsito .                                        74        501        826        1303       1632        1734       2064        2526       9104        314c        '691       5359       965         367       464e         5495       6497       7748        9045        10341      1136t       11237
17 71 W-shigOoto;   atiI  ttpt-,ty of100 M.7T.; se  A..w. 7 Tbhle I for dettle of costs per station.
7/ 7cr a detailed hresk-dce, seAnne,-            Talel 1.
3/ Oee Atsc  15, ToOls Ifor prices nod A-te  12 for P-odneti- -tti
At  418677  oe  the  ao0t  pric  for tni-l-et aenoe f Fdrttd  cherr, Floe aln1-- of 045/9T for Caner tra..sp-rt I  thc  -nhito  tItScc                                 1eeAne  15, 7t-le 2 fe-1  tce2o  pex
SdOs-   ct-c7, Tblc2f-rdelti1scf 2otLs  peretatOct
7/  het  o  oeansoe  i  eprernIcAdisAhbo                        --clesnonpoleat eil tIe Pr-iet tre   (E$15-18/MT, Ot 1% cf p-rha-  prite  fC orpFetCrer-o                                - ex t  Ox dL- AbohaI55   I
8/ 0~hs epectd  cOt ett -. 2 ntes-  coh-CI- -eoryiecw d be sitter disltibxte    t, Caera as inceasd crp  ayc-tte  -r haednd  -c   to ecprevtneaenntoltv:,                                                 cd  en e-tabliohox.  It II also e-ycted thne  PIC cAl
oetc::.t en Cleave  (thr-ng: A110  -r ste-ite) .apital -op-d,t--r  foe rl              teee.   .less  so an Ic sei::, n-t ehe  -htfl-Cl



EIlHIOPSA
COFFEE PROrOS TNC PFROl--
Cash Flowr Projection:   ldeso Private Sector -i lb-Project  l Et)
(Based on .odel washing siatton of 100-too cacacityJ
1978'79                         l983/84                          1981/99
1972/73      1973/74       1974/75       1975/76       1976/77      1977/78           I: 1951/1       19h23        then ig63/8        1987/88       then  1992193
I   Capital Itets
a) Expenditures 1/
Washing Station Construction                                     57 900           -             -             -             -            -                                                               109
Rplaent  tn--   yar  lif                                                                                                   -           10,900                           10,900            -              10,90-
"--10 ye, life    (       Total                57,900           _             -             -            _           lO,iOO            -              1,900                            10,900
b)  Financed by 2/                                                        o19
mT;T=    -             ,                                                                                                    -10                                         17,900            -        
Washing Station Owner                (2       1tr                5,900             -                                                    10,900            -               02 bO                           10,900
If. R-ecurrent Itet
a)  I     o n o                                                     -          145,200       177,400       175,300       173,300      171,300         169,200          169,200         169,200          169,200         169,200
Sl of crop Eto eporters -
h)  O a         Exedl5/                                                 -          108,600       131,700       129,600       127,600      125,500         123,400          123,400         123,400          123,400         123,400
Washing Station ocerating Costs 61                                 -            23,500        24,9o0        24,800       24,800        24,800          24,800           214,800         24,800           24,800         24,100
Iherketing Cost. to Addis Abab. 77                                 -             5s,10         7,200         7,200        7,100         7,100           7,000            7,000           7,000            7,000           7,000
T coma e Tig  8C                                                   ( 200o)        -              300           400           400          400             600              600             600              800             BOO
n   _                           Total                 (T2T0        137,900       164,000       162,000       159,900      157,hO0         155,600          155,oO0         155,hO0          156,000         15b,000
)Oserating Income                     (3)                                                                                                                                                                                  1,0
(after ta, before depreciation and debt service)                  200          7,300       13,400        13,300        13,400        13,500          13,400           13,400         53,4oo           13,200
d)  Debt Senrtic                                                      1,900          6,800         6,800         6,800         6,800        6,800           6,800              800           5,600             -               -
Re-payment-of-  AIDB loans                                         ,90           680            ,o            ,o
e)  Net Inoome                          (4)
(after taxes and debt service, occluding depreaiation)         (1,700)           500        6,600         6,500         6,600         6,700           6,600           12,600          7,800           13,200          13,200
III.  Saturn  on Cital (aftrn t1a)   )                                    (57,700)         7,300        13,400        13,300        13,400        2,600          13,400          (15,400)         13,400            2,300          13,200
IS, Cash  Plow                                                                                                                                                                                     ,0                  3          120
Lile (4) less line (2)                                          (19,100)           500         6,600         6,500        6,600        (4,200)          6,600            1,700           7,800           2,300          13,200
Rate of Retorn = 17%      If the owner's smcal rates of E$ 4,200 is ecludod from costs, the rate of return rises to 251
NOTE: Financial acelysis for haffa Estate Stb-Project is Virtually the scme,  iththe invcntive psyel1 f-or the crop (E$ 40/MT)    e-cioded. The rate of return is then 24%.
1/ See A-oem  7, Table I  f- further defails.
2/ Covering 701 of initial cocstriltion cost and 1005 of the ocst of replacing 10-year life itecs inl 1982/83.
3/ Co-ering 309 of iciti&]  con-tructto.   cyst and 1005 of the cost of re-la-iOg 5-year life itens in 1977/71, 19H2/M3 a,d 19817'PP.
4/ Using Assumtion C (see dnnex 14) for world -rices of washed coffee: after adju,st-tnn for o r-tecs' costs and  -otion s:lh most (see h:eol5 , able  1
5/ At E$ 40/MT ever thoe far ,ate crice for eqoivalest an:,!: of dried ch-ery, don allowance of E$ 45/M- for far-ec  trratiport to the wasting station (c- sverage): usicg Asn-wtion III (see A-ses  14) for world -eLves of dry-mrcce-ned coffee
6/  See footnote 2/ to Annex 16, T.hle 4  for further details: includes iscome for owner of Et l4,200 per a,nnuc
7/ Costs an far an sale to occort, es in Addic Ababa: is.olv.     sc 1- icipal tames in the  rojeot areas (E$ 15-17/MR", at l of purchase -rice of croc from fa-cers) and transcort to Addle Ababe (Et 51Mt)                                                     h
8/ At these levels of income - 90 of set oceraticg i-rome after depreciatio- (averaging E$ 5,500 per ann-sn) and itereni cn loans   inl 1972'1 owner  as write-off intercet  asid  cn AIDS loan agai-nt iccome fret his erlsticttaior
9/  At 9-1/2r interect, the isnitia  lo.n cepaid over 10 y-nrs incluling 1 yYonc of gn.ce.   ubhseq-Cft loon repaid o-co 5 ye,  InClwiiy, 1c yea  of g,r.c.



E T H I C P I A
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Cash-Flow Projection   Kaffa Cooperative Sub-Project (in i$)
(Based on model washing stations of 100-ton capacity)
1972/73      1973/74     1974/75    1975/76      1976/77     1977/78      1978/79    1982/83      1983/84    1987/88    1988/89
through                through                through
1981/82                1986/87                 1992/93
I. Capital Items
a. Expenditure  /
Washing Stations Construction      57,900           -            -          -           -            -           -           -           _          -           -
Replacement itens - 5-year life        -            -            -          -           -       10,900           -      10,900           -      10,900
Replacement items -10-year life        -            -            -          -           -            _           -      17,900           -          -
(1)         -            _           _          _            -       10,900           _      28,800          -       10,900         _
b. Financed by
AIDB loans 2/                     410,500           _            -          -           -            _           -      17, goo          -          - 
Cooperative  /             (2)     17,4o00                       -          -           -       10,900           _      10,900           -      10,900
57,900           -           -           -           -       10,900           -      28,800           -      10,900          -
II. Recurrent Items
a. Incone
Sale of crop to exporters 4/           -       145,200     177,400    175,300      173,300     171,300      169,200    169,200      169,200    169,200    169,200
b. Operating Expenditures
Purchase of crop 5/                    -       113,400     137,700    135,600      133,600     131,500      129,400   129,400       129,400    129,400    129,400
Washing Station Operating Costs 6/    -         17,700      19,300      19,300      19,300       19,300      19,300     19,300       19,300     19,300      19,300
Marketing Costs to Addis Ababt 77      -         5,800       '7,200      7,200       7,100        7,100       7,000      7,000        7,000      7,000       7,000
-       136,900     l64,200    162,100      160,000     157,900      155,700    155,700     155,700    155,700    155,700
c. Operating Income            (3)         -         8,300      13,200      13,200      13,300       13,400      13,500     13,500       13,500     13,500      13,500
d.  Debt Service
Repayment of AIDB loans |           1,900        6,800        6,Soo      6,8oo       6,8oo        6,0oo       6,8oo         800       5,600         -           -
e. Net Income (after debt service,
excl-ding depreciation)  (4)     (1,900)       1,500        6,4oo      6,400       6,500        6,6oo       6,700     12.700        7,900     13,500      13,500
III. Seturn on Capital
Line (3) less line (1)            (57,900)       8,300       13,200     13,200      13,300        2,500      13,500    (15,300)      13,500      2,600      13,500
aRte of Retorn - 17%
IV. Cas6h flow
Line (4) less line (2)            (19,300)       1,500        6,4oo      6,4oo       6,500       (4,300)      6,700       1,800       7,900      2,600      13,500
/  lee Annex  7  rable 1 for further details.
i/  Covering 70% of initial constiuntioui cont a-d 100% of the cot of replacing 10-year life items in 1982/83.
3/  Covering 30% of initial cons tretio,l cost and 100% of the cost of replacing 5-year life items in 1977/78, 1982/83 and 1987/88.
Slsing Ass=mption C (see Annem  14 ) for world prices of washed coffee after adjustments for exporters costs and duties and taxes (see Annex 15 Table 1 ).
2/  At E$l0Q/MT over the farn-gate price for equivalent anonoit of dried cherry, plus allowance of E4$5/YT for farmer transport to the washing station (on
average); using Assmption TIT (see Annex i4 ) for world prices of dry-processed coffee.
i/  See Footnote 2/ to Akter  16 Table  5 for further details; includes allocation of Cooperative IIQ expeses.
LI Costs as far as sale to exporters in Addis Abaha; involves municipal taxes in the project ares (5715-171MT, at I( of purchase price of crop from farmers)             L
end transport to Addis Ababh (Ft55/MT).                                                                                                                           I x
3/  Et   11/2i% interest; the initini leo1n renaid ove  10 years, including 1 year of *race.  Flu,equent luon repnid  yvov    D      rS cluIiu-   ye -c   0   ee.






ANNEX 16
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
principal Assumptions
1.        Benefits.  In the absence of specific plans to develop the areas
to be opened up by the roads to be constructed under the project, other
than the proposed construction of coffee washing stations, benefits from
the project included in the economic rate of return calculations have been
restricted to the increased value of coffee exported as washed coffee over
coffee exported as unwashed coffee; and to the possible increase in coffee
production that the project might encourage, namely, some 1,000 MT of un-
washed coffee per annum eventually (para 6.01 of the main report). In
view of uncertainties whether such increased production would, in fact,
occur, it has been assumed, for the purpose of this analysis, that there is
a 50% probability that it would result, and an equal probability that it
would not.
1/
2.        Coffee Prices. -  Four projections of world market prices have been
made for Ethiopian washed coffee, and a further four for Ethiopian unwashed
coffee, and probabilities of their occurrence have been assigned to each, as
explained in Annex 14 and shown graphically in Chart 1 to that Annex. The
Probabilities assigned to the two sets of projections are largely, though
not completely, independent of each other and are to be interpreted as
relating to the price differentials between washed and unwashed coffee,
rather than to absolute values. Table 1 to this Annex shows the various
FOB Djibouti prices of washed coffee, and the various costs of handling it
from washing station to FOB, which correspond to the various projected
world market prices for Ethiopian washed coffee.
3.        Table 2 shows various "economic values" of sun-dried coffee
at the farm-gate, corresponding to the various projected world market
prices for Ethiopian unwashed coffee. These "economic values", which are
equal to FOB unwashed coffee prices, less dry processing and handling costs
to FOB (net of taxes and duties), are used in the economic return calcula-
tions as the "economic cost" of the ripe cherry used in the washing process.
1/   As noted in paragraph 6.04 of the main report, these projections and
calculations assume that coffee prices will not be adversely affected
(in terms of the Ethiopian dollar), by the recent devaluation of the
US dollar. Therefore all conversions from prices in US dollars have
been made in this Annex at the pre-devaluation rate of E$2.50 - US$1.00
(rather than the present rate of E$2.30 - US$1.00). Should the present
rate be used for such conversions, the various rates of return estimated
in this Annex would drop by 2-3% and the probabilities mentioned in
paragraph 7 of this Annex would drop by about 10%.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
For it is estimated that it takes the farmer as much time to prepare his
sun-dried coffee (involving only one or two pickings, but requiring constant
atl:ention during the drying process), as it does to harvest only ripe cherry
(perhaps in 7 or 8 pickings).
4.        Labor.  Unskilled labor is available in the project areas at about
E$1.00 per day outside the coffee season, and E$1.25 per day during the
cof'fee season, which figures have been used for the opportunity cost of
unskilled labor utilized in the project.
5.        Land.  The opportunity cost of land occupied by washing station
sit:es, about one hectare each, has been taken as its current rental value,
namely, about E$600/ha per annum.
Rates of Return
6.        Table 3 shows the rate of return calculation data for the Sidamo
Cooperative Sub-project for one of the assumptions of world market prices
for washed and unwashed coffee. The rates of return for the 32 combinations
of prices, with and without the increased production mentioned in paragraph
1 above, are shown graphically in Charts 1 and 2 to this Annex. Applying
the probabilities assigned to these various assumptions, Chart 3 shows the
result of the calculations in the form of a curve from which can be read
off' the probability that the rate of return would exceed a certain figure.
For the other sub-projects, only the rate of return calculation data are
shcown in Table 4 (Sidamo Private Sector Sub-project 1/ and Kaffa Estates
Sub-project) and Table 5 (Kaffa Cooperative Sub-project), respectively, but
the data is given to cover all. the assumptions made about world prices.
7.        The results of the calculations can be summarized as follows:
Probability that
Mean Rate       Rate of Return
Sub-Project              of Return         Exceeds 10%
(%)                (%)
Sidamo Cooperative            17                 85
Sidamo Private Sector         21                 95
Kaffa Cooperative             18                  95
Kaffa Estate                  21                  95
1/   Calculations for the Sidamo Private Sector Sub-project only apply to
cases where stations are completely rebuilt. Rates of return for minor
modifications should normally be higher, very much so when the
alternative to a small investment might be closing down completely.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
The rates of return for the cooperative sub-projects are generally lower
than for the others because only the former involve investments in road con-
struct:ion.  The relatively high overheads for PIU in the Sidano Cooperative
Sub-project compared to other enterprises and cooperatives, are largely
offset in these calculations by the increases in production which are likely
to result from the heavy road investments in Sidamo Province.
December 22, 1971






ETHOPLA
COFFEE _ROCESSINO IRJECT
Washed EthoPian Coffee! Cost from Factory to FOB Djibouti Corresponding to Various New York Spot Prices
(in EW . clean coffee equivalent unless otherwise statedJ
Sales Revenues
New York Spot Price (US cent/lb)                   53.00       52.00       51.00      50.00 °      9.00       48.50       48.00       47.50       67.o00      46.50       46.00       45.5o       45.oo       h4.50        44.0o
Equivalent FOB Djibouti (US cent/lb)              50.50       49.50       48.50       47.50       46.50       46.00       45.50       45.00       44.50       44.00       43.50       43.oo       42.50       42.00       41.50
Equivalent FOB Djibouti (EV/MT)                2,783       2,728       2,673       2,618       2,563       2,535       2,508       2,480       2,453       2,425       2,398       2,370       2,362       2,315       2,287
Cost from Factory to FOB Djibouti
Sundries  1/                                     158         154         151         148         145         143         142         140         139         137         136         136         133         131         129
Part of NCB Cess 2/                               25
Packing and Dispatching from
Addis Ababa to Djibouti                            88  -      2L5         2L5         265         265        245         245         265         245         245         245         245         245         2h5          245
Brokerage, transport, handfing and
cleaning in Addis Ababa                            77
.Transport to Addis Ababa                          55
Total                                   403         399         396         393         390         388        387         385         384         382         381         379          378        376          374
1/  Insurance, comission, fimnce and foreign exchange charges at about 5.66% on FOB Djibouti.
2/ That part of NCB cess devoted to NCB's direct costs:  ESl15Oper bag of 60 kg out of a total cess of E$I3.Oper bag (E$ 25/14T).
a/ see foutnotc 1/on page '     this .nne.                                                                            :                                                                                                                 c



ETHIOPIA
COFPEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Unwashed Ethiopian Coffees: Value of Production at Farm-Gate
Corresponding to Various New York SpotPrices a/
(in E$/MT unless otherwise stated)
Sales Revenues
New York spot price (US cents/lb)           43.00      41.00        40.00        39.75        39.50         39.25         39.00        38.50       38.00        37.50        37.00
Equivalent FOB Djibouti (US cents/lb)    40.50         38.50        37.50        37.25        37o00         36.75        36.50         36.oo       35.50        35.00        34.50
Equivalent FOB Djibouti (E$/MT)          2,232      2,122        2,067        2,053        2,039         2,025        2,012        1,984       1,957        1,929        1,901
Handling and Operating Costs
Sundries 1/                                126        120          117          116          115           115          114          112         111           109          108
Part of NCB Cess                            25
Packing and Dispatching from Addis
Ababa through Djibcuti                     88
Brokerage, transport, handlinlg and              )    371          371          371          371           371          371          371         371           371          371
and clearing (Addis Ababa)                 56
Transport to Addis Ababa                    45
Processing in project areas /              107
Transport to prccessing factory j/          50
Sub-total            497        491          488          487          486           486           485          483         482          480          479
Value of Production at Farm-Gate         1,735      1,631        1,579        1,566        1,553         1,539        1,527        1,501       1,475        1,449        1,422
LI  Insurance, commission, finance and foreign exchange charges at about 5.66% on FOB Djibouti.
That part of the NCB cess devoted to NCB'sdirect costs:  E$150per bag of 60 kg  out of a total cess of E$3.00 per bag (E$25/MT).  (As per Table 1).
Hulling, hand-picking, storing and bagging.
i   By mule, for an average distance of 10 km.
_ ;ee footnot'e '" orn r-Ag9  'of thi s Annoy.                                                                                                                             ( 



ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSIrNC PROJECT
Ecenoaj  Rate of Retur  A-a1yai.:  Sidao Cooperative Sub-Poj-ct'
(Is E$ IIIvoice  erheseils  statd)
1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1979/79  1979/8I  1980/81  1981/82  1982/93  1983/04  1984/85  1985/86  1906/87  1987/RH   8988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1997/93  1991194  1994/95
I. caste
Wee                     2~~~~"t'"/                        - HH         58     2,026       869    -           -           164        301       218      -        -433    1,002                    576        -        -164                  381        218      -        -          ---
Wh:ieo etettoo`ti.o-_rort1oe-2,596                                                  607    (1,410)                           -
PSI H!                                                           840       462        473       523       542        420       475       433        433       413       370        469       479       400        399       378        469       420       420        399        370       379        880       100
Wsahig IrficoopertOOorest-                             -                     156       504        901    1,017      10,49      1,049     1,049     1,049      1,049     1,049     1,049     1,049      1,049     1,049      1,049     1,049      1.049     1,049      1,049     1,049        933        300
Paeerred sa.ter....e 67-                                                           -        134        134       134       134        134       134       134        134       134       134       134        134       134        134       034        134       134        134      134         lo         40
ATDBHC-teC7/                                                       10    0        20              21        15        11         10        11        10         10        10        1I          5              5               5       -         --                  ---                                      -
TrespHet HE rherYs to Wautivo vcttov 2"              -                      -          27       117        730       297       315        315       314       215       315        315       215       315        315       313        315       315        315       315        315      315        .IF9        90
Rob-torl.                  230   4,236    3,309          009    1,922      1,870      2.147     2,322    2,159    1,921        8,870    2~410       2,922     2,499     1,902      1,073     2,131      2,799     2,136    1,897       1.868      1,868     1,978        530
V~~~~~J-t ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     -           -         97       ,15      7,21     1,10       1057       0,2    1,25         1,35      10,325   10,325    10.325   10,325    10,325   10,322    10,325   10,325   10,325   10,325    10,322   10,325                 8,113      2.950
OhH.I              10/t  F-                                                 -       233    1.001    1,940        2.515    2,653    2,646   2.646          2,646    2,646       2,646     2,646     2.646      2,646      2,646     2.646     2,646      2,646    2,646       2.646    2,646       2A079___756
006-total1                          -       1,212      2,106    9.060    12,593   13,160   12,971   12,971  12,971            12,971   12,071   12,971   12,971   12,971   12,971   12,971   12,971   12,971   12,975    12,971   12,971   18,192    3,706
.tota  (1)             230   4,230      4,601    5.915   11,690    14.471   15,307    11,293   15,130  14,092            14,149   15,301    15,896    15,470   14,873   14,144    12,102    15,275    15,102   14,068   14,039   14,839   11,670    4,236
II. Benefits
FOB Value oI eehed Coffee Pr.odution                -                      -       1,571    6,148   12,368   15,027   16,590    16,394   16,394   16,394    16,394   16,394    16,394    16,394    16,304    16,304    16,394    16,304   16,3e4    16,3964   16,396   16.394   12.881    4,604
Net valu  ofOcrae  dyp-pro..eeaed coOffe                        -                      -        116        727       332       432       633        044    1,055    1.155       1.955      1,155     1.055      1,152     1,055    1,055       1.051     1,155      1.055     1,055    1.055       1.0155    1,055
Total (2)           -           -       1,521    6,546   12,595   16,159   17,022   17,027   17,230    17,449   17,449   17,449    17,469   17,449    17,449   17,449   17,449   17,449   17,449   17,449   17,449   17,149    13,036                             5,739
1171.  Net Cost/BO..eOil t Itre   [7I'  -  17                           (230) (4,236)  (3,080)         649       905     1,600      1,715    1,734      2,100      2,557    2,600      2,068      1,553     1,979      2,576     2,605    2,347    2,179        2,342      2,581    2,610    2,610        2,366     1,503
tonmolte of holt-    19*
NOTE.  fvor differeo  Prior Proivoteiv  fo oIolohd vd nv-acte  coffl hove hee. -cdv  Aue                   -4e  14, chart).   joi-oo,  for Ito Poopole offthie.aoocto,p14i   Proje-tto -IfTO ad    for  -vostd and nuttd  -off-c r-p-ctrly hove                                 - -rold.
Graphicrepreectathoc    ofth  r_e    frtrtoartlh Itooterprac_lvec -t-l about pri-e  of  -ahod cad o-oaehd oufCe  Ir                                       --H  i.  ~hatt 1, 2 sad 3 of  ro-e
1/ For sashed ..f fee aely,  -aladis9 the propoerd i ...etreent teeer e tal irc.t
2/ Inldspeidcrpleremen  of depreiated itree; see Aunee 7, TehIs 1 for detaile of costs pee etati-
7/ See Acne 6, Table 1.
4/ teetdts   sdvleo  sele    rvde   nehrIe-ejaehaehs   alded feo  the total roh rest   i-c  ic Accec 0, Tahle 1.
3/  trldeeteajetdr-ere   of -ac -np        pree-ids.i    h,.bptj.~b-b.
6/lfiree tcros   incude   is roe, d-cratrucior  00-1  th-oogh 197/(2/.  At E1n70/ho,/Yr, iacliodio  deP-eojtlc-  Ifco-enot--eo-dj -eot
71 Hoe  ppertioeUect of ...ete of AID1 credit  .,it neded for project.
0/ Al averos rost  of R$45/efT a  clean eoffsquvler
3/floe  alor of0Cc crp yr the far-ovte h- btrot eaten  tL itc 72,1 vale            l dr  p...e... coffee,  mo   rctiondncel-eot                         c(.o.oonvltnoodGm                          a    ot-
10/  other  -tdy to  ,,   --e ooot n    l       cj-   b-e (< of Ute FtB  uto- oC the  harne   orp  se   -oo  1/, Tbtlo 1I
32/  ericee adlftnal  .  trtlot  ofdew oc-ooe..el zoffe-  of 107 dl tod 1074/75, pot of i. 1975/t/  300 Ifi ion 1976/77, 40ot  1r  n  q7/fA, /37  0ev  i)0/'o, 002  7~ in l`)100t on  0_,2    P or 17/Rt  vd tthreftvr    Net  -a1o  41 tk-et
-    nfcr-g'tt  coo   (tpr  te  16,  shlv 2) teoc coo  of p-od-tn-  no fuv-oto,' nooedo f$9I2/17T



EThiICP1 A
CO'FEE PkOCESSING PROJEC-
Economic Rate of Return Calculations: Sidwno Private Sector Sub-Project
(bancd onandel -ruttlb suatlon ox 100-ton capacity)
1972/73      1973/74       1974/75    1975/76      1976/77    1977/78    1978/         1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85          1987/88    1988/89
thrug                                         tFhFough                   Thog
1980/81                                        1986/87                   1992/93
S    Costs
Washing Station Construction i/           57,900            -             -          -            -       10,900         -            -      28,8oo          -           -         10,900          -
Washing Station operating Costs g/            -         23,500       24,8cc      24,8oc       24,8cc     24,8cc      24,8cc       24,800     24,8cc      24,800     24,8oc         24,800      24,800
Value of crop at farm-gate %/
Assmption I                                 -       133,300       161,4oo    158,800       157,400    156,200    156,200       157,400    158,800    16o,loo    161,4oo         161,400    161,400
Assumption II                               _       133,300       161,4oc    158,800       157,4cc    156,21c i56,20c          156,200    156,200    156,2oc    156,2oc         156,2o0    156,200
Assumption III                              -       133,300       161,4oo    158,800       156,200    153,600    151,000      151,000    151,000    151,000    151,ccc          151,000    151,000
Assumption IV                               -       133,300       158,800    153,600       148,4oo    145,700    145,700       145,700    145,700    145,700    145,700         145,700    145,700
Transport to washing station  2'              -         3,600         4,500       4,500       4,500       4,5co       4,5oc       4,500       4,500      4,5o0       4,5cc          4,500       4,500
Other costs to PUB srr
Asrsption A                                 -         31,400       39,000      38,800       38,700     38,500      38,4cc       38,4cc     38,4c0      38,4cc     38,4cc         38,400      38,4oo
Assumption B                                _         31,200       38,700      38,500       38,4oc     38,200      38,100      38,100      38,100     38,100      38,100         38,100     38,100
Assumption C                                _         31,c00       38,4cc      38,200       38,100     37,900      37,800       37,800     37,800     37,800      37,800         37,800      37,800
Assumption D                                -         30,700       38,10c      37,900       37,800     37,6co      37,400      37,400      37,400     37,400      37,4cc         37,4c0     37,400
AIDB costs 2                               1,700           800           500        500          500         500        300          300        300          --                                    -
PItU costs 7/                              3,ccc         1,Dcc          500          -            -           -          -            -          -           -          -              _           _
II.  Benefits
FOB value of crop 2
Assumption A                                -       209,4cc       256,300    253,500       250,800    248,ooo    245,300      245,300    245,300    245,300    245,300          245,3cc    245,300
Assumption B                                        205,000       250,800    248,ooo      245,300    242,500    239,8cc       239,800    239,800    239,800    239,800          239,800    239,800
Assumption C                                -       2cc,6o0       245,300    242,500      239,800    237,000    234,2cc       234,200    234,2cc    234,200    234,200          234,200    234,200
Assumption D                                _       196,200       239,800    237,000      234,200    231,500    228,700       228,700    228,700    228,700    228,700          228,700    228,700
ITT, Net Cost Benefit Stress  (Demonstration
example o y)
Using Price Assumption ITT for dry
coffee and Price Assmption C for
washed coffee:                        (62,600)       7,400        15,200      15,700      15,700       4,800      15,800      15,800    (13,000)    16,100       16,100          5,200     16,100
Rate of Return = 19%.
NOTE :   The analysis of a model washing station on an estate in the Kaffa Estate Sub-Project is almost identical to the above.
12'  Including replacement of depreciated items.  b,or further details see Annex 7, Table 1.
2/  As per ?_J stations, see Annex 7 Talle 2, plus the following itens:
(a)   depreciation and running costs for
half of a persosnel carrying vehicle       -     E$ 2,500 per annum
(b)   office machinery                           -     F$   150  " 
(c)   secretary                                  -     F$ 2,400
(d)   audit                                      -     E$   6co
(d)   proportio. of ownerls time                 -     f          "     "
TOTAL      -           089"f"
So that operating costs are about 1;23,500 in the first year 980 MT throu..hput) and E$24,800 in subseqolet years (100 toes lhru-hrst             t ).
3/  Value per ton as per Adnes 16   Table   2 , for the varying assumption regarding world prices of dried coffee (see Annex    ; except that deduction for transport to the factory
is only EP15/1iT, based on average d.sttance from farm-gate to washing station of 3 km for the Sidamo Private Sector sub-project.
4/  At E$45/MT, since C MT of red cherry required lo prod:ce 1 MT uf cleai coff-ee eqivale,ct, as opposed to 2 MV  of dried cherry.
5/ As per Annex  16 Taile 1  for varyin-g assumptions regarding world prices of washed coffee (see Andex 14).
5/ Appraisal of, loan, applicatiol and subsequceu,t supervision.
7/Survey of site, adaption of stanldard desirn to suit site characteristics and s-pervision of construction and initial operation.



E T H I O P I A
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations: Kaffa Cooperative Sub-Project
(in E8
(Based on model washing station of 100-ton capacity)
1972/73     1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77       1977/78     1978/79      1981/82     1982/83   1983/84       1984/85   1987/88    1988/89
through                                         tfhrough      -        through
1980/81                                          1986/87               1992/93
I.    Costs
Washing Station Construction                          57,900          -           -          -          -        10,900          -            -       28,800         -            -      10,900
Washing Station Operating Costs                           -       17,700     19,300      19,300     19,300      19,300       19,300      19,300       19,300    19,300        19,300    19,300      19,300
Road  Construction tean38,000                                                                -          -            -           -            -           -          -            -          -         - '
Feeder Road Maintenance i/                                -        1,400      1,400       1,400      1,400       1,400        1,400       1,400        1,4ool100  1,400  1,4oo           1           1,400
Value of crop at farm-gate                                                                                                                1,o           ,o         ,o          14o        14o        I,o
Assueption f     a                                             133,300    l61,4oo    158,800    157,400      156,200      156,200     157,400      158,800   160,100       161,400   161,400    161,4oo
Assumption II                                           -      133,300    161,4oo    158,800    157,400      156,200      156,200     156,200      156,200   156,2oo       156,200   156,200    156,200
Assumption III V                                               133,300    161,400    158,800    156,200      153,600      151,000     151,000      151,000   151,000       151,000   151,000    151,000
Assumption IV                                           -      133,300    158,800    153,600    148,400      145,700      145,700     145,700      145,700   145,700       145,700   145,700    145,700
Transport to Washing Station |                            -        3,600      4,500        4,500      4,500       4,500        4,500       4,500       4,500       4,500       4,500       4,500     4,5oo
Other costs to FOB Z/
Assumption A                                           _        31,400     39,000      38,800     38,700       38,500      38,400      38,400       38,400    38,400        38,400    38,400      38,400
Assumption B                                            -       31,200     38,700      38, 500    38,400      38,200       38,100      38,100       38,100    38,100        38,100    38,100      38,100
Assumption C                                            -       31,000     38,400      38,200     38,100      37,900       37,800      37,800       37,800    37,800        37,800    37,800      37,800
Assumption D                                            -       30,700     38,100      37,900     37,800       37,600      37,400       37,400      37,400    37,400        37,400    37,400      37,400
ATDB Costs 8/                                           800          400        300         300        300          300         100          100         100         -            _          -           _
PIU costs |/                                           2,000       2,000       2,000        300          -           -            -           -           -          -            -          -           -
II. Benefits
FOB value of crop 7/
Assumption A                                            -      209,400    256,300    253,500    250,800       240,000     245,300     245,300      245,300   245,300       245,300   245,300    245,300
Assumption B                                            -      205,000    250,800    248,000    245,300       242,500     239,800     239,800      239,800   239,800       239,800   239,800    239,800
Assumption C                                            -      200,600    245,300    242,500    239,800       237,000     234,200     234,200      234,200   234,200       234,200   234,200    234,200
Assumoption D                                           -      196,200    239,800    237,000    234,200       231,500     228,700     228,700      228,700   228,700       228,700   228,700    228,700
III. Net Cost/Benefit Strewn (Demonstration example
only )
Using Price Assumption III for dry coffee and
Price Assumption C for washed coffee                 (98,700)     11,200     18,000      19,700     20,000        9,100      20,100       20,100      (8,700)   20,200        20,200      9,300     20,200
Rate of Return: 16%
1/ Including replacement of depreciated items,  For further details see Anne- 7, Toble 1.
As per 'I' stations, see Annex 7 Tablu   2 p;us the following items
(a)  depreciation and running costs for quarter
of a personnel carrying vehicle                 -        FS 1,200 per annum
(b)  office machinery                                 -       E$   100  "s H
(c'  proportion of HQ staff (inclunding audit)        -       E  3,000
TOTAL   *-       __   __
So that operating costs are about E$17,700 in the first year(80 MT throlghpuQ) and absout EP1o,300 in subsequent years (100 tons throughput).
3/ On average involving 2 kn of t'eeder roads (_ E$c,q00/kc, 3 kmo of factory access roads (G  It9,4oo/k) and minor river crossings ().$2,200) for a total of E$3?,000.
i/ 2 kI n E$700/km/year.
5/ Value per ton as per Annex 1G  Tahle  2 , for the varyi_ assumpti-s reg-arding world prices for dried coff.. (see Annex 14 !  except that the deduction for transport
to the factory is only E$15/MT, hased on average distance from fas-gate to washing stations of 3 ki  for the Kaffa Cooperative Sub-Project
6/ At E$45/MT, since 6 MT of red cherry required to produce 1 MT of clean coffee equivalent, as opposed to 2 MT of dried cherry.
As per Annex 16 Table 1 , for varying assumptions regardilng world prices for washed coffee (see Annex 14¾
j  Appraisal of loan application and subsequent supervision.
a/ S,r-ey of site, adaption of standard design to suit site characteristics and supervision of construction and initial uperation.






ETHIOPIA: COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN FOR SIDAMO COOPERATIVE SUB PROJECT
(ASSUMING NO INCREASE IN COFFEE CROP)
(RATE OF RETURN)                                                                                                                 25_
ASSUMPTION A (l0o- PROBABILITY)       ^  
20%                                                                                                                               -20%
ASSUMPTION B (4096PR BABILITY)                                              t*s'Iss *gs
15%                                                                                                                                    15%
ASSUMPTION C (40% PROBABILITY)          ssS                                   o S   oos
10%                                                                                    - -"   -                                      -10%
ASSUMPTION D (10j% PRO BABILILTY     go*
5%                                                 %0  IIs'-'5%
0'~~~~~~1
L    ~~~~~'''' toot%O
0   _       _0
-5%                                                                                                                                  --5%    >
ASSUMPTION I                     ASSUMPTION 11                     ASSUMPTION III                     ASUMPTION IV                  I z
(10% PROBABILITY)                (40% PROBABILITY)                 (40% PROBABILITY)                 (10r PROBABILITY)             - X
NOTE: ASSUMPTIONS A,B,C AND 0 REFER TO ETHIOPIAN WASHED ARABICA PRICES AND ASSUMPTIONS 1, 11,111 AND IV
REFER TO ETHIOPIAN UN-WASHED ARABICA PRICES. SEE ANNEX 14 FOR DETAILS.                                       IBRD - 5387






ETHIOPIA: COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN FOR SIDAMO COOPERATIVE SUB-PROJECT
(ASSUMING INCREASE IN COFFEE CROP)
30% (RATE OF RETURN)                                                                                                             30%
30%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASMTO A (10 PRB_IIY                                                                           30% 
ASSUMPTION B (40% PR    ILIT)ASSuMPTION A (10PRoBATBI LITY)
25%            l,,, "                                                                                    - 1             2 25%
ASSUMPTION A  (40% PROBABILITY) \ 0-- "'IlS20%
20%                                                                     2,,,,,, lit '. I - '"'    . _ _ 20%
ASSUMPTION C (40% PROBABILITY)\,                                                          go
ASSUMPTION D (I1O0, PROB, EILITY)     _go  _^|_   
15%                                                              . UIj**11-                                                     15%
10%          _o10%
5%-                                                                                                                            5%
ASSUMPTION I                    ASSUMPTION 11                  ASSUMPTION 111                   ASSUMPTION IV
(10% PROBABILITY)               (40% PROBABILITY)               (40%, PROBABILITY)              (10% PROBABILITY)               n >
I z
NOTE: ASSUMPTIONS A,B ,C AND D REFER TO ETHIOPIAN WASHED ARABICA PRICES AND ASSUMPTIONS I, 11,111 AND IV                               m m
REFER TO ETHIOPIAN UN-WASHED ARABICA PRICES. SEE ANNEX 14 FOR DETAILS.                                                           x
I BRD - 5386 6d






ANNEX 16
CHART  3
ETHIOPIA: COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN FOR SIDAMO COOPERATIVE SUB-PROJECT
(PROBABILITY  DISTRIBUTION)
0
20
-  40
I-0
0
60
80
Note:Curve showing probability that rate of return exceeds
a certain figure.For example,there is about an 85%
probability that the rate of return would exceed 10%.
100                                                              1            I       I
0                   10                  20                   30                   40
RATE   OF   RETURN  %
I BRD-5385






MAP I
I    / _*r                                                                   ETHIOPIA
.1                                                 .  ~~~~~~~COFFEE AREAS
k{ -° rJl'   @        \                             X   X          \                  AcAtIat Coffee Aros
EE Patenfiat Coffee Arecs    AFRCA
s   S   /  \      rI.,n   V        X             v                     _         _ _ _Afiw  eothe roads         E op
d : <    . s 1                                                         00 -           oJ
0        i /    % 'rxdirz°  TendelboX O                                                                                           f 0
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
--   RObin  O~~~.eOcO  Door  Il  TA            Go ulf5    20   n
AJ-                                                            S--          T E--
G ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~       G-
-E~~~~~.ELE~GA                                        VO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9,1
C) OOA                                 ....o,e,                                         ._    _   _ ,
U~~~~~~~~~i G1 AA 1i               t2e    N       --°    i 
/                                                                           -.uART             T.                                                        BRD328
G    E00 90 A     ~
UGANDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OE8RUARY 971                                                                                                                                     ORD 7286~~~~~~~~~~~~~D 



I



MAP 2
820Id o                       ci    , Addis Aba                     840
S H  / 
ETH/OPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT                                                                        - _ _
SIDAMO SUB-PROJECT                                           L   Awosa
Tornic rood                                     Awrsa
Existing oil weather rods
…Exsotmg dry weatherroad sn process of
being vp-graded to oll weather stondards                                                           =.                                   7I
Coffee lone                                                                           '         -.~L
…______ Proposed dry weather feeder roads                                                                                                - 
Proposed factcryaccess roads
I   Proposed pOlping station sites
Peronn,oi rivers
Province boundar,es                              Lk.
.....SOb-pro-inc  bo-ndary (Awrajo')
0 5              in~~~
IILES
U    200   400 Miles
SdiUt D I AD R A  I A
...........~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~t                                   .
t        AnAs~~~t   0t. 
Wonon
S.d
-  fl~~~t.-Coffee      offZeZnee'
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <                                                                                      /a  
SA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _Mir,H
DECEMHER O1r97                I-3
5                AA   'S
Ch     dotrhiea rkrinrn
rMary s-.   ae
T. K.W                                                                     b..nd.,..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  saWod
38-20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g,ebfr
DECEMBER 1970                                                                                                          IBRD-3255~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OI






MAP 3
ETHIOPIA
COFFEE PROCESSING PROJECT
KAFFA SUB-PROJECT AREAS                                                                     tLE5
Eitrng atll weather roads                                                                                                                                  suntv
E-isrirgdryweather rood n process of be-g uP-gnoaed.rad 0  weather stndrds                                                                                        I
- Other satisfactory dry weatner roads
…__ _ _ Dry weather ro-ds ahich mght be ipnroded to feeder rood srandrrds under the projetI
--- ---Other dry weathne roads
Factory -oess roads which mighf be constructed under the protest
*     Potentiol w-shig sihes for J -mo Coopeatue
*     PotentIal as,hihg sites for Gdmo C-oper-leet
.7oc, - Perentat riOes                                                               I 
Sub-proun-e boundary ('AwtojI )
Ambuyet
I   w                               l X X   m~~~~~~I    m      (          k        w    r   a             aJ
ThB.a60e ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    B.
'-#G--- ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~     ~         1                                 ----------
.                                                                                   - '                                           '                          /                        a
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. "",".."'''''"''-.
<   /                   /                                                                                                                       Pr g; KENYA  l  / f  A                   t
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rOSnto a                                                                            B           w    61s r   
tO AdacAbode
A  /            a~u~           ashM.
FE9RUARY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 197                                                                                                  IBR A  5287
'Addir Abaro "
-   Oh'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
FEBRJARY 1971                                                                                                                                                                                         80RD- 3287



