CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 290 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Coffee Processing Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 20, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 290 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Coffee Processing Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 20, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated   March   20,   1972,   between   EMPIRE    OF
ETHIOPIA     (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank S.C. (hereinafter called AIDB), the Institute of Agricultural
Research (hereinafter called IAR) and the National Coffee Board (hereinafter called
NCB), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make the proceeds of the Credit available to AIDB, IAR and NCB as hereinafter
provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement to be entered into
between the Association, AIDB, IAR and NCB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provision of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
(c)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement";


﻿4                                          0
(d)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement";
(e)   The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into by the
Association, AIDB, IAR and NCB, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and AIDB pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Financing Agreement;
(c)   "AIDB" means the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank, a
Share Company established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 55 of 1970 and
the Commercial Code Proclamation of 1960 (Proclamation No. 166 of 1960), and
shall include any successor or successors thereto;
(d)   "IAR" means the Institute of Agricultural Research, established and
operating pursuant to Order No. 42 of 1966 and shall include any successor or
successors thereto;
(e)   "NCB" means the National Coffee Board as established by Decree
No. 28 of 1957 as modified by Proclamation No. 178 of 1961 and shall include
any successor or successors thereto;
(f)   "PIU" shall mean the Project Implementation Unit, an operationally
independent Unit of NCB to be established, for purposes inter alia of carrying
out Parts A, B (1), C (2) and E of the Project and for assisting in carrying out
Parts B (2), C (1) and D of the Project;
(g)   "Gomma Coffee Growers Cooperative Society Limited" means the
Cooperative Society registered on June 1, 1966 under Proclamation No. 241 of
1966;


﻿5
(h)   "Jimma Coffee Growers Cooperative Society Limited" means the
Cooperative Society registered on August 30, 1966 under Proclamation No. 241
of 1966;
(i) "sub-borrower" shall mean the recipient of credit under Parts B (2),
C (1) and D of the Project;
(j)   "sub-loan" shall mean   any medium- or long-term    credit to a
sub-borrower, under Parts B (2), C (1) and D of the Project;
(k)   "PIU Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures" shall mean the
statement of operating policies and procedures for the Project to be adopted by
Resolution of NCB as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million three hundred thousand
dollars ($6,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurcment under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
S


﻿6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
March 1    and   September 1     commencing    March 1, 1982    and   ending
September 1, 2021, each installment to and including the installment payable on
September 1, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of S.-ction 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower and such other person
or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural,
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations tinder
the Project Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit,
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
nor amend, abrogate or waive the Project Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable AIDB, 1AR and NCB to


﻿7
perform all of their obligations under the Project Agreement and in the case of
AIDB under the Project Financing Agreement and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which might interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation on the Borrower's obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall make available to AIDB, under
a Project Financing Agreement on such terms and conditions as shall be acceptable
to the Association, the funds required to carry out Parts A (1), B (2), C (1) and
D of the Project.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
make available by way of a grant: (i) the funds required by IAR to carry out
Part F of the Project; (ii) the funds required by NCB to enable PIU to carry
out Parts A (2), A (3), A (4), B (1), C (2) and E of the Project; and (iii) the
funds required by NCB to carry out Part G of the Project.
(c)   Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.01 and paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that
sufficient liquid fuids to cover the expenditures estimated by NCB to be required
by PIU for Parts A (2), A (3), A (4), B (1), C (2) and E of the Project during
the following three-month period, shall be made available to NCB for use by PIU
not later than the first day of each such quarter.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, construction
and work schedules and contract documents for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause AIDB, IAR and NCB to: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. Without limitation on the Borrower's obligations under Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire promptly as and when needed all such land


﻿8
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out Parts A, C (2)
and F of the Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain and repair or cause to be
maintained or repaired the roads constructed under the Project in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices, and shall provide promptly as needed
the funds, equipment, workshop facilities, labor and other resources required for
this purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take and shall cause its agencies to take
all such action as shall be necessary on their part to encourage the establishment
of cooperative societies to take over the ownership and operation of the fa.ilities
to be constructed under Parts A (1) and A (2) of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to: (i) the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement; (ii) the performance by AIDB, IAR and NCB of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and of AIDB under the Project Financing
Agreement; (iii) the administration, operations and financial condition, resources


﻿9
and expenditures of AIDB, IAR and NCB and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof; and (iv) other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit;
and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures of
AIDB, IAR and NCB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by AIDB, JAR and NCB of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and by AIDB of its obligations under
the Project Financing Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all property and equipment
of AIDB, IAR and NCB and any relevant records and documents and to visit any
part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.


﻿10
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   AIDB, IAR or NCB shall have failed to perform any of their respective
covenants, agreements or obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that AIDB, IAR or NCB will be able to perform their obligations under
the Project Agreement;
(c)   Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
its terms, Decree No. 55 of 1970, Order No. 42 of 1966, Proclamation No. 241
of 1966, Proclamation No. 178 of 1961, the Proclamation to be issued pursuant
to Section 8.01 (f) of this Agreement so as to enable NCB to carry out its
obligations under the Project Agreement, or the Resolution of NCB establishing
PIU in accordance with requirements of paragraph (d) of Section 8.01 of this
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, modified or repealed
so as, in the opinion of the Association to materially and adversely affect the
carrying out and operation of the Project;
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AIDB, IAR, NCB or
PIU or for the suspension of their operations without the pilor concurrence of
the Association;


﻿S  I
(e)   The Project Financing Agreement or the subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between AIDB and NCB as shall be provided for in the Project
Agreement, or any of the respective provisions of the said agreements, shall have
been assigned, amended, suspended, terminated, abrogated or waived without the
prior concurrence of the Association;
(f)   An order shall have been made, or a resolution shall have been adopted
for the winding up, dissolution or liquidation of AIDB, without the prior
concurrence of the Association;
(g)   NCB shall have sold, leased, transferred or otherwise disposed of any
of its property or assets financed in part out of the proceeds of the Credit other
than in the ordinary course of its t.usiness, without the prior concurrence of the
Association;
(h)   The PIU Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures shall have
been amended, suspended, modified or repealed without the prior concurrence of
the Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events specified in Section 7.02 (a), (e) or (h) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower, AIDB, IAR and NCB.
(b)   any event specified in Section 7.02 (c), (d), (f) or (g) of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
AIDB, JAR and NCB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.


﻿12
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Project Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and AIDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)  The execution and delivery of the subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into by AIDB and NCB, as shall be provided for in the Project Agreement,
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
(d)   NCB shall have passed a resolution establishing PIU on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association and shall have employed the Project
Manager and Chief Officers of Sections of PIU as shall be provided for in the
Project Agreement.
(e)   PIU Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures, satisfactory to
the Association, shall have been adopted by NCB.
(f)   A Proclamation, satisfactory to the Association, shall have been issued
enabling NCB to carry out its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(g)   AIDB shall have employed the Senior Officer as shall be provided for
in the Project A.greement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, AIDB, IAR and NCB, and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of AIDB, IAR and NCB in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Project Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and AIDB,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and AIDB in
accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into by AIDB and
NCB, as shall have been provided for in the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, AIDB and
NCB and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of AIDB and NCB in accordance
with its terms.


﻿13
(d)  That PIU has been duly established with the powers necessary to carry
out its functions as shall have been provided for in the Project Agreement.
Section 8.03. The date June 23, 1972 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03, 4.02
and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of Sections 7.02 and 7.03 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the date on which the Project Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿14
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Mekbib Gebeyehu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
S
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
I.    Loan disbursements by
the Agricultural and
Industrial Development
Bank (AIDB) for coffee
washing station con-
struction and modifi-
cation, excluding any
disbursements for cov-
ering interest charges
or commitment fees
(a)   to NCB                       1,600,000       100% of total
expenditures
(b)   to sub-borrowers             1,000,000       100% of total
expenditures
II.   Machinery, vehicles and              880,000
equipment (including
spare parts) for road
construction, and other
vehicles (including
spare parts) required
for the Project
(a)   directly imported                            100% of total
expenditures
(b)   locally procured                             70% of total
expenditures


﻿16
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
III.  Road construction other
than items specified
in Category II
(a)   by force account              380,000       100% of total
expenditures
(b)   by contract                   370,000       100% of total
expenditures
IV.   Construction of a                 1,3000          100% of total
coffee dryer and PLU                              expenditures
staff services, ex-
cluding costs of
vehicles, road
construction and
construction of
washing stations
V.    IAR research, including             250,000       100% of total
buildings and equipment,                          expenditures
other than vehicles
VI.   Unallocated                         690,000
TOTAL             6,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods


﻿17
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories II, III and IV on account of
expenditures for detailed Project planning incurred after October 15, 1971, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes;
(c)   expenditures under Category V prior to the approval by the Association
of the IAR research program for the Project; and
(d)   expenditures for acquisition of any land.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,


﻿18
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I (a),
II (b), III, IV or V shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
S


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the program of the Borrower to increase export
earnings from agriculture by improving coffee processing methods and consists of:
Part A:
(1)   The construction of about 70 coffee washing stations (with a total
annual capacity of about 7,000 tons of clean coffee equivalent) in
the Sidamo and Deressa Awrajas of Sidamo Province, all initially to
be owned by NCB and operated by PIU;
(2)   The construction of an experimental coffee dryer initially to be owned
by NCB and operated by PIU;
(3)   The construction of about 200 km of dry-weather feeder roads and
100 km of dry-weather washing station access roads linking said
washing stations to the Awasa-Yirgachaffe main road; and
(4)   The provision of services of (a) a Project Manager, a Project
Accountant, and a Chief Coffee Processing Engineer (b) staff to assist
in the formation and the establishment of cooperative societies
intended to take over operation of the processing facilities to be
constructed under Parts A (1) and A (2) of the Project and (c) until
completion of Part A (1) of the Project, other staff for the operation
of PIU, excluding staff directly engaged in the operation of washing
stations.
Part B:
(1)   A survey of each existing washing station in the Sidamo and Deressa
Awrajas of Sidamo Province;
(2)   Credit to  owners of existing washing stations for subsequent
modifications to their washing stations, as recommended by the survey,
such modifications to include complete rebuilding, if necessary.
Part C:
(1)   Credit to the Gomma Coffee Growers Cooperative Society Limited
and to the Jimma Coffee Growers Cooperative Society Limited for


﻿20
the construction of about 20 coffee washing stations (with a total
annual capacity of about 2,000 tons of clean coffee equivalent), in
the Limmu and Jimma Awrajas of Kaffa Province;
(2)   The construction of about 60 km    of dry-weather washing station
access roads linking said washing stations to the existing road network;
and improvement of about 40 km of existing dry-weather roads, to
facilitate transport of coffee from such washing stations to Jimma.
Part D:
Credit to coffee plantation owners for the construction of about 10
coffee washing stations (with a total annual capacity of about 1,000
tons of clean coffee equivalent), in the Limmu Awraja of Kaffa
Province.
Part E:
Preparation of appropriate agricultural projects to take advantage of
the road network to be constructed under Part A of the Project, and
of further projects in the coffee sector.
Part F.
Research into coffee agronomy and processing involving inter alia the
establishment of about 7 research sub-stations in different zones of
Ethiopia, each sub-station containing suitable areas of existing so-called
"forest coffee".
Part G:
A survey of the Ethiopian coffee economy and the development of
a permanent information and planning department within NCB.
Parts A (1), (2) and (3) and B, C, D, E and G of the Project are expected
to be completed by September 30, 1975, and the other Parts of the Project are
expected to be completed by December 31, 1977.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for machinery, vehicles or equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
prequalification is advertised or otherwise announced, inform the Association in
detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnishe4 by the
Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants are notified
and the Borrower shall make such additions or deletions from the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable
objection, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the


﻿22
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for machinery, vehicles or equipment,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract
as well as copies of the invitation to bid, the tender documents, the bid analysis
and evaluation and such other documents which the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association, if it determines that the award was inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination and,
in such event, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
3.    With respect to any contract for machinery, vehicles or equipment estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000, and with respect to any contract for
civil works, international competitive bidding shall not be required and the following
procurement procedures shall be followed:
(a)   for contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000 or more,
invitations to tender shall be published in at least three consecutive issues of two
daily newspapers with wide circulation in Ethiopia; and
(b)   for contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $ 1,000
but less than $4,000, at least three quotations shall be obtained and evaluated.
4.    For the purposes of procurement of machinery, vehicles or equipment
(including the procurement of machinery or equipment for installation in washing
stations to be constructed under Parts B, C and D of the Project), such goods
shall, wherever practicable, be bulked so as to encourage international competitive
bidding, and procurement of such goods (other than the goods required to carry
out Part F of the Project) shall be arranged by NCB acting through PIU and in
consultation with AIDB.
5.    All contracts for road construction, and for the construction of washing
stations under Part A of the Project, shall be let by NCB acting through PIU.
S


﻿23
All contracts for the construction of washing stations under Parts B, C and D
of the Project shall be subject to prior approval of AIDB.
6.   Notwithstanding the above, NCB, acting through PIU, may construct roads
under the Project by force account and sub-borrowers may, with the prior approval
of AIDB, themselves construct the washing stations under Parts B, C and D of
the Project.
0


