Docament of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13699
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OULMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2217-MOR)
NOVEMBER 10, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OULMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2217-MOR)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             Moroccan Dirham (DH)
Appraisal Year            US$1.00 = 6.0 DH
Implementation average    US$1.00 = 8.6 DH
Completion Year average   US$1.00 = 8.5 DH
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DPA:         Provincial Agricultural Directorate
DPV:         Plant Production Department of MARA
DRS:         Soil Conservation Program
DVRA:        Research and Extension Department of MARA
ERR:         Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP:    Cooperative Program: Food and Agricultural Organization
INRA:        National Institute for Agricultural Research
MARA:        Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
M&E:         Monitoring and Evaluation
NPCC:        National Project Coordination Committee
OARDP:    Oulmes-Rommani Agricultural Development Project
PCC:        Provincial Coordination Committee
PMU:         Project Management Unit
PCR:         Project Completion Report
SAR:         Staff Appraisal Report
SMS:        Subject-Matter Specialist
SAP:         Special Action Program
TA:         Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offia of Dfr.tow-Giwsl
Opwatlon Evaltion
November 10, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on Morocco
Oulmes-Rommani Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2217-MOR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Morocco-Oulmes-Rommani Agricultural
Development Project (Ln. 2217-MOR), approved in 1982. Parts I and m were prepared by the
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office, and Part II by the Borrower.
Oulmes-Rommani was the last in a series of five Bank-supported projects for rainfed area
development in different agroecological zones of Morocco that began in 1975. The project's
objectives were to increase agricultural production and productivity in rainfed areas, and to raise farm
incomes by improving social and agricultural services. The project aimed to promote wood
production, fodder resources, and soil conservation, and contained substantial education and health
development components.
The project was poorly timed. It was approved in 1982 when Morocco had been experiencing
serious financial difficulties for several years. All the earlier rainfed projects were acutely short of
counterpart funds and Oulmes-Rommani suffered from inadequate funding from the outset. Some
restructuring of the project took place at loan effectiveness, and in 1987 the project was revised
under a Special Action Program which reduced project scope, canceled social development
components, and simplified project design.  Despite these changes, retroactive increases in
disbursement percentages, and the introduction of special accounts, the project was unable to utilize
Bank funds expeditiously. The project implemented was one-fifth the size of the project approved.
Nevertheless, in its reduced form, Oulmes-Rommani was able to support increases in cereal
production, forest development, and soil conservation.
The outcome of the scaled-back project is rated as satisfactory, institutional development is
modest, and sustainabiity is uncertain. The PCR is satisfactory, although a number of data are
missing because project monitoring recorded little more than the parameters of implementation. The
project was audited in 1994, along with three other rainfed projects in Morocco (OED Report
Number 12701) and the ratings of the project remain unchanged.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OULMES-ROMM4ANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2217-MOR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  ...............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .                                .....................................i
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ... ...... 1
1.    Project Identity  .........................................  1
2.    Background ............................................ 1
3.    Project Objectives and Description .............................. 2
4.    Project Design and Organization ................................ 4
5.    Project Implementation ..................................... 5
6.    Project Results and Impact ................................... 9
7.       Project Sustainability  ................................... .. 11
8.  Bank Performance ...................                                                                              11
9.  Borrower Performance ...................                                                                          12
10.  Lessons Learned ...................                                                                              12
11.  Project Relationship ...................                                                                         12
12.  Consultancy Services ...................                                                                         12
13.      Project Documentation and Data ...............................  13
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....... 14
PART Im - STATISTICAL ENFORMATION .......................... 20
Table 1.           Related Bank Loans ................................. 20
Table 2.          Project Timetable   ................................... 21
Table 3.          Loan Disbursements .................................. 22
Table 4.          Project Implementation ................................ 23
Table 5.          Project Costs and Financing ............................. 25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the puommnce of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Table 6.           Project Results ..................................... 27
Table 7.           Status of Legal Covenants  ..............................  28
Table 8.           Use of Bank Resources  ................................ 29
PART mI - ANNEX 1 - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ................. 31
Annex 1:    Figure 1-2 ........................................ 31
Table 3-5 ........................................ 32
PART m - ANNEX 2 - NOTE ON ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ....                                                      ........... 33
Annex 2:    Table 1  .                 ........................................ 35
Table 2 ......................................... 36
Table 3 ......................................... 37
Table 4 ......................................... 38



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OULMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2217-MOR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Oulmes-Rommani Project for
which Loan 2217-MOR in the amount of US$ 30 million was approved on December 14, 1982.
The project was closed on December 31, 1992, three years behind schedule. A balance of about
US$ 802,000 was cancelled at that time bringing the total amount cancelled under the Loan to
about US$ 17.3 million.
Parts I and m  were prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
(FAO/CP) for the Agriculture Operations Division of the Maghreb Department, Middle-East and
North Africa Region. Part II will be prepared by the Borrower.
Preparation of the PCR was started during a visit by a team from FAO/CP in May
1993 and is based, inter alia, on information gathered by the Project staff and by the FAO/CP
team in the project area and through discussions with Project staff and officials of the Ministry
of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance and Bank staff associated with this Project, and on a
review of the project files.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OUIMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2217-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background, Objectives and Design
1.        The Oulmes-Rommani Agricultural Development Project (ORADP) was the last of
a series of five World Bank-funded integrated rural development projects, covering different
agro-ecological situations, and aiming at promoting the development of rainfed agriculture which
had in the past received insufficient attention. Lessons from those projects were taken into
account to avoid the start-up delays they experienced. The objectives of ORADP were: to
increase production and productivity in the rainfed areas in order to improve Morocco's self-
sufficiency in staple foods; and to improve the living standards of the population by raising farm
incomes and by providing better social and agricultural services. The project also aimed to
increase wood production, develop fodder resources, and protect the environment by introducing
soil conservation practices. During formulation, major consideration was given to integrating
crop and livestock farming, strengthening extension and research, and introducing cultivation
techniques that conserve soil moisture. Soon after effectiveness in March 1984, the project was
reduced in response to the severe budgetary constraints faced by the Government of Morocco
during that period. Most of the non-production components were then cancelled or reduced.
Implementation
2.        The difficult economic situation in the country resulted in serious delays in the
implementation of the core project components, which really started in 1987 only. A cadre of
determined and well-trained staff was by then in place, and implementation proceeded smoothly,
particularly for agricultural extension and forestry plantations. However, due to the initial delays
and persistent financial difficulties, a three-year extension was required for project completion,
and a total of about US$ 17.3 million had to be cancelled from the loan.
Results
3.        In spite of delays and curtailments, physical targets of most components left after
restructuring were met. The main exceptions were sylvo-pastoral and rangeland improvements
which achieved only about 30% of target because of slow adoption by beneficiaries. Moreover,
during project implementation, agricultural production in the project area increased sharply,



- iii -
chiefly through intensification of cereals. Yields of wheat and barley are estimated to have
increased by more than 50%. The project contributed to this through the development of a well-
trained and motivated cadre of extension staff, and by facilitating access to credit and inputs.
An indicative economic analysis for the agricultural component shows an economic rate of return
(E.R.R.) close to appraisal estimates (13.9% , as against 14%).
4.         Sustainability of agricultural benefits will be ensured by the Bank-assisted Research
and Extension project. Govemment is committed to funding recurrent costs of the support
services put in place by the project. On the institutional side, the project helped strengthen the
provincial agricultural services and facilitated the progressive transfer of commercial operations
from Government to professional organizations, which is expected to contribute to their
sustainability.
Lessons
5.         The project illustrates the difficulty of pursuing too many diverse objectives,
particularly in the context of projects which are to serve as pilot experiments. However, by
timely restructuring and by concentrating on a single component, extension, which has benefited
from continuous attention from Bank supervision missions, the project has probably reached its
major agricultural production and income objectives. Other major lessons include:
the need to immediately review a project if confronted from the outset with
major counterpart funding difficulties; and
-      the need to plan M&E from the onset, and to integrate M&E activities into
annual work programs.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OUILIES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2217-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name     :     Oulmes-Rommani Agricultural Development Project
Loan No.               2217-MOR
RVP Unit               MNA
Country                Kingdom of Morocco
Sector           :     Agriculture
Sub-sectors            Food crops, Livestock and Forestry
2. Background
2.1       Sectoral context.  The Oulmes-Rommani Agricultural Development Project
(ORADP) was conceived in the late seventies to alleviate some of the constraints to development
in the Khemisset province. It was a follow-up to similar projects" prepared for four other
provinces. The ORADP, like the other projects, was formulated following the realization that
excessive resources were being directed towards irrigated agriculture compared to non-irrigated
farming, although the latter was the mainstay of the agricultural sector. Because of this, non-
irrigated farming had stagnated, and increase in agricultural production came as a result of
expansion and intensification of irrigation, which accounted only for a small portion of the
country's total agricultural output. In the early 1980's when the project was being prepared,
about 5.8 million ha were cultivated annually, of which 0.8 million was irrigated. Some 85%
of the labor force was dependent on traditional rainfed agriculture, using limited modem inputs
and techniques. Given the sheer size of the rainfed sector, it became clear that if significant
rbThese included: Meknes (1975), Fes-Karia-Tissa (1979), Loukkos (1980) and Moyen Atlas (1982).



- 2 -
progress towards food self-sufficiency and improved living standards of the people were to be
achieved, sufficient resources would need to be allocated for its development.
2.2        Macro-Economic Situation During Project Implementation.  The Project was
declared effective in March 1984, and this coincided with the country's difficult economic
period. Morocco imposed a first budget austerity plan from 1978 to 1980 to respond to financial
disequilibria. Agriculture projects, in particular new ones in the non-irrigated sector, were
either delayed or cut back in size. In the early 1980's, a second oil price shock, a debt crisis
and four years of drought compounded Morocco's financial difficulties, deepening the need for
austerity in the rainfed projects. The Project suffered from inadequate funding from the outset,
thus requiring its restructuring almost immediately after approval. This entailed the curtailment
and exclusion of components as indicated below (para 4.4). The funding difficulty lasted
throughout 1987, after which a gradual improvement enabled the restructured project to gain
momentum and to be completed thanks to a three year extension.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        Poject Qbjectives. The main project objective was to increase production and
productivity in the rainfed agricultural areas in order to improve Morocco's self-sufficiency in
staple foods. The project aimed to improve the living standard of the predominantly rural
population in the project area by raising farm incomes (through increased agricultural and
livestock production) and by providing better social and agricultural services. In addition, the
project aimed to increase roundwood production and to protect the productive environment by
countering soil erosion and forest degradation. The project was to seek to improve the
integration between livestock and forest production in the forest state land areas. The project
was to cover an area of about 328,000 ha or 41% of the Khemisset province, consisting of about
41% of agricultural land and 48% of forest land. The bulk of the 118,000 people who lived in
the project area were to benefit from the project.
3.2        Project description.  The project, to be implemented over a five-year period,
included:
(a)    Crop development:  increased crop production on some 80,000 ha of
private rainfed land through the provision of improved technology,
including better soil management, agricultural inputs and credit as well as
through strengthening agricultural extension and research.
(b)    Livestock development: improving livestock productivity by increasing
fodder production on the farm and on the forest range, through genetic
improvement of cattle, sheep and farm horses and better herd management
and animal health. To this end, the project was to construct and staff five
breeding stations, two horse breeding stations and purchase 500 selected
sheep for distribution to farmers. The animal health program was to
include eight dips for extemal parasite control and additional drugs and



- 3 -
equipment. Two new milk collection centers were to be provided. The
project was also to provide credit for the purchase of feed concentrates, the
building of sheep and cattle folds, the purchase of improved animals and
the purchase of forage harvesting, silage and hay making. Additional
infrastructure was to be provided to an existing cattle breeding station and
to a trial pasture area on 500 ha.
(c)    Irrigation Development: (i) development, rehabilitation and extension of
eleven traditional irrigation perimeters by about 600 ha; (ii) equipment for
two ten-hectare irrigation demonstration farms; and (iii) studies of
groundwater resources and the preparation of detailed development plans
for future investments not financed under the project.
(d)    Forest development and Sylvo-pastoral Improvement: (i) establishment of
about 8,000 ha of commercial pine and eucalyptus plantations and 4,000
ha of protection plantations; (ii) introduction of soil protection and erosion
control measures including tree planting on about 4,000 ha of state and
private land; and (iii) sylvo-pastoral operations on the forest range
increasing the quality and yields of timber, cork and fodder in some
12,000 ha of indigenous forest and bush land, by selective thinning and
pruning of trees and pasture improvement measures, combined with
livestock management and rotational grazing.  Basic fire protection
arrangements in the project area were to be improved through the
establishment of firebreaks and fire towers.
(e)    Infrastructure: construction of 150 km of new forest tracks and upgrading
of 35 km of existing ones; maintenance of about 800 km of forest tracks
and 400 km of rural roads; construction/extension of 14 rural markets,
health infrastructure and electrification works; extension or new
construction of water supply systems equipped with public fountains in 10
population centers and 61 water points in the countryside; and construction
of classrooms and teachers' houses.
(f)    Institutional and Logistical Development of the Agricultural Services: The
project was to provide incremental staff, vehicles, offices, housing and
other administrative support for four key directorates in Khemisset and the
project area. Project actions were also to include: (i) a reform of the
extension system and a selective program of intensification including
training of extension staff; (ii) the implementation of a research program;
and (iii) improved input supply and credit systems.
(g)    Technical assistance and studies: provision of a total of 26 staff-months
of short-term technical assistance in the areas of cork oak management and
harvesting, monitoring and evaluation, and applied research, agriculture
and extension. In addition, two staff-years of long-term consultancies were



required to assist in the inial implementation of the forest range program.
The project also aimed at financing a cadastral survey, groundwater studies
and other project-related preparatory studies.
3.3       At the national level, the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA)
was to be vested with overall responsibility for project execution.  Within MARA, the
responsibility for the project was to be taken by the Directorate of Crop Production.
Coordination of project activities at central level was to be entrusted to a National Project
Coordinating Committee (NPCC), to be chaired by the Secretary General of the MARA, and
at the local level by the Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC) to be chaired by the
Governor of the province. The project was to be implemented by the existing agricultural
services in Khemisset, headed by the Director of Provincial Agricultural Directorate (DPA), who
was to be the project manager. The DPA was to be assisted by a project management unit
(PMU), comprising a deputy project manager and the project's six subject-matter specialists
(SMS). The education, health and infrastructure components were expected to be implemented
by the line agencies.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        Project Origin and Preparation. Following a World Bank agricultural sector mission
in 1978, a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) visited Morocco in
April/May 1979, and identified the ORADP. National and regional teams, formed to prepare
the project, were assisted by several CP missions during 1979 and 1980, after which a
preparation report was issued in March 1981 and presented to the World Bank for appraisal.
The relatively lengthy time between identification and final preparation reflected the complexity
of the project, and the deliberate wish to substantially involve the teams in the preparation
exercise. Indeed, members of the preparation teams and the agencies they represented closely
identified with the project, and this has greatly facilitated project implementation.
4.2       Project Formulation and Design Considerations. Project formulation strived to
contribute to the resolution of development problems encountered in rainfed farming by
introducing measures that could be replicable in the future. The project approach was to
promote the integration of cereal and livestock farming, particularly on-farm forage production;
designing a research and extension system to serve the integrated approach; improving farmers'
access to credit; and introducing improved cultivation techniques which increase moisture storage
and promote soil conservation. At the farm level, project design envisaged to increase crop and
fodder production by intensifying crop and animal production on existing farms and by
expanding cultivation in the fallow areas. Since the preparation teams had a comprehensive
understanding of these concepts, their work was relatively easy and thorough. However, the
same cannot be said for the sylvo-pastoral component which did not initially involve thinning
and pruning of cork and holm oak forest but only protection of existing trees and
plantation/seeding of forage species in open areas. This component was not successfully
implemented, perhaps reflecting the lack of preparedness by the staff and by the implementing
agencies, particularly by the forest service.



- 5 -
4.3        Three area development projects were under implementation during the formulation
of the ORADP. Efforts were therefore made to incorporate lessons learned from these projects.
In particular, measures aimed at reducing start-up delays were introduced. These included:
involvement of authorities in project preparation, establishment of coordinating committees at
the national and local levels, incorporation of project management into the existing
administrative services, early nomination of project staff and preparation of the first year's
implementation work plan and related funds before project effectiveness.
4.4        The project risks identified at appraisal concerned drought incidence, farmers'
adoption of new technologies, participation of the population in the range management
techniques and administrative delays. The risk of underfunding which had plagued the three
earlier projects had not been taken into account. This was, however, the reason for a major
project revision. In 1987, following upon the experience with the three earlier rainfed projects,
the project was included under the Special Action Program (SAP) which (i) revised the project
scope by cancelling or reducing the non-agricultural components (education, health, rural water
supply, electrification and other infrastructure), (ii) retroactively increased the disbursement
percentages for civil works until the project closing date, and (iii) included a special account.
The restructuring led to the cancellation of a total of US$ 14 million from the loan, also
prompted by a devaluation of the Dirham which reduced local costs. In spite of the reduced
scope, persistent financial difficulties and the consequent rigid control on fund releases continued
to reduce the pace of implementation. Under the Gulf Crisis Assistance Program, disbursement
percentages for all categories were increased further for the period September 1, 1990 to the
project's closing date. Nevertheless, the project was not able to utilize the already curtailed
Bank funds, even after the three year extension accorded to the project, and an additional US$
3.3 million had to be cancelled between 1991 and loan closing.
5. Project Implementation
General
5.1        The project became effective on March 5, 1984, when the key personnel was
appointed. In fact, work had already started on studies since 1982, so as to avoid start-up delays
experienced by previous projects. However, due to the difficulties mentioned above, progress
was initially very slow with the exception of constructions. Development activities really started
in 1987 only when budgetary constraints were eased and following the nomination of a project
manager who undertook a major re-organization of DPA. With the establishment of task forces
for all major components, coordination was significantly improved within DPA as well as with
other provincial authorities. Despite these improvements, progress remained very slow on sylvo-
pastoral and range improvement activities. Reasons for this emerged only slowly after it became
clear that lack of resources was not the real factor, and so the issues with these components
could not be squarely addressed. Key implementation parameters are shown in Part III, Table
4.



-6-
Agriculture Development
5.2        Rainfed agriculture.  Apart from  extension, this component included land
improvement, improved access to credit and inputs, and support to research. De-stoning and
clearing is a recurrent activity, carried out by farmers who try to increase their arable area, and
are supported in this by a national program, with no direct project input. As agreed at appraisal,
credit eligibility rules were revised in 1984, allowing small farmers better access to credit. This
measure was complemented by the progressive opening, from 1984 to 1988, of 8 seasonal credit
outlets within the project area, as also stipulated in the SAR; however, the sharp rise in credit
uptake dates back to 1984 (see annex 1 fig. 1). Input stores and selling points were established
in four extension centers, of which two were already completed by 1985. Fertilizer and seed
sales more than doubled during project implementation (annex 1, fig.2).
5.3        Extension and Research. The upgrading/strengthening of agricultural centers and
sub-centers took place as foreseen in the SAR. The agricultural school of Tiflet was reinforced
as foreseen and a new training center was constructed in Khemisset with savings realized under
the training component of the Project. Local training of extension staff took place starting in
1985, then in 1990 and 1991. But it is only in 1987 that incremental staff (9 versus the 37
foreseen) was assigned to the project, and the first project vehicles made available. Also in
1987, the organization of extension was improved: staff was redistributed over the project area
according to clear criteria, precise terms of reference were given to staff and supervisors, and
annual programs and targets were set. In 1988, extension was further reorganized to reach a
larger audience through a group approach where this was deemed possible, while the pilot farms
approach was discarded. The number of groups reached 575 in 1992, with an average of 8
members each. In parallel with this, mass extension through the souks expanded steadily and
was estimated to have reached some 32,000 farmers in 1992.  These activities were
supplemented by visits (e.g. to research stations), field days, and winning-prize competitions;
the total of such events increased from 42 in 1985 to 154 in 1992. Despite the staffing shortages
and the weak training program, the reorganized extension service put in place under the project
was one of the most successful and was able to work with farmers effectively.
5.4        A three-year contract was signed by the DPA with the National Institute for
Agricultural Research (INRA) for the period 1989-91 for research support to project activities.
This concerned mostly a research program on cereals, fruit trees, forage crops, pulses and the
physical environment. A complementary program has been carried out since 1986 by extension
staff with support from the Plant Production (DPV) and Research-Extension (DVRA)
Departments of MARA, which encompassed trials as well as demonstrations of new cereal
varieties, of new crops (triticale, sunflower), and of different land preparation techniques. Trials
and demonstrations have been planned to meet farmers' demand for new techniques or problem
solving.
5.5        Monitoring of extension has been increasingly refined since 1989, and this has
enhanced discipline and motivation. However, attempts at impact evaluation started only in
1991, and cover adoption rates of major themes, not their impact on adopting farmers. A survey
of 154 farms was carried out in 1991, but has not been analyzed yet.



5.6       Irrigated Agriculture.  The program of development and expansion of small
irrigation schemes was reduced due to insufficient water resources. Five schemes of the 11
foreseen in the SAR were cancelled. Rehabilitation and extension works were completed for the
six remaining schemes over a total area of 163 ha. These schemes were taken over by the
extension team to ensure the organization of the beneficiaries and to follow development of the
land. Studies on groundwater resources carried out in Oulmes also showed no prospect for
irrigation development and were cancelled for the Tanoubert basin.
5.7        Livestock. Project management emphasized veterinary aspects in the earlier years
of implementation. Only two dips were installed for external parasite control versus the eight
foreseen. Instead, the project demonstrated spraying techniques, which are reported to have
been now largely adopted by sheep owners. The project also demonstrated internal parasite
control; livestock owners are reported to be now aware of benefits and to carry out anthelmintic
treatments. There is, however, no record of adoption nor any evaluation of impact. Project
vehicles, mostly procured after 1988, increased staff mobility and vaccination performance.
5.8        Most of the envisaged bull and stallion centers were established in the first year of
project implementation. However, few breeding animals could be found, and were bought in
1991/92 only. Initially conceived as under government responsibility, the centers and the
breeding animals are now being transferred to producer groups. This is also the policy for the
few (154) Timadhit sheep bought by the project, also in 1991/92.
5.9        The key constraint, nutrition, was to be addressed essentially through an expansion
of forage crops, on which the project had no influence and through sylvo-pastoral developments,
which were cancelled (para 5.12). Feed concentrates and forage harvesting, silage and hay
making activities started in 1991; the units and related equipment which were established for
feed concentrates, silage and fanage did not function due to the drought and to the availability
of subsidized feed concentrates. These units have now been entrusted to cooperatives. In
addition, the project carried out demonstrations of overseeding and fertilization of pastures, and
a test on improved pasture establishment. The economics of such techniques remain to be
studied.
5.10       Milk collection capacity development was pursued as scheduled: two collection
centers were built and equipped in 1985, and three existing centers equipped in 1988, raising
total capacity from 2,500 1 in 1982 to 11,200 1 at present. This was in anticipation of a rapid
increase in milk production. While production has likely increased in the project area, this
increase is mostly during the peak lactation season, when the cooperatives have difficulties
selling the milk; then many farmers sell to door-to-door salesmen. As a result, these facilities
are used well below capacity.
Forest Development
5.11       Although partially affected by the general budgetary constraints, the program of
plantations proceeded relatively smoothly from the start of the project, and was virtually
completed at closing date. The distinction made originally between production and protection



- 8 -
forests was soon discarded, on the ground that both types of plantations had similar soil
preparation, tree density and establishment cost. In fact, plantations were established without
any clear management plan. An inventory of new plantations is now being carried out. Due
to successive droughts, particularly in 1986/87 and 1991/92, establishment rates have been low,
and yields are expected to be significantly lower than estimated at appraisal. The forest road
program was curtailed after project restructuring; instead, the maintenance of existing roads has
been expanded.
5.12       By contrast, the large (12,000 ha planned) sylvo-pastoral component was delayed
by several years because of the difficulty to find contractors for thinning and pruning. The
reluctance of forestry staff to undertake activities leading to increased use of forests by graziers
also contributed to the delays, but this was acknowledged only in 1988, after DPA's re-
organization. In that year, responding to earlier Bank suggestions, visits were paid by project
staff to nearby successful sylvo-pastoral developments undertaken by the Middle-Atlas project.
A program of 1,400 ha was then started, for which contractors were found. Project foresters
felt that there was insufficient information on how to carry out such development but were
reluctant to use the envisaged technical assistance input, insisting on the need to build references
on local experience. The work was finally entrusted to Hassan II University in 1991; as there
had been little progress by 1992, the component was cancelled, and funds re-allocated to forest
plantations. Communal range improvement, which was entrusted after 1987 to livestock staff,
encountered similar difficulties and was abandoned due to the refusal of rights holders to give
up the land. It was later replaced by a demonstration of pasture establishment on 900 ha of
mostly parastatal farms (para 5.9).
5.13       The soil conservation (DRS) program on agricultural land met with initial opposition
from farmers who feared for their land, as this was to be partially terraced by the project,
planted with fruit trees, including olives, and protected from animals for several years. This
was resolved after numerous meetings and visits to the Middle-Atlas project, and the component
became very successful. Plantation of olive trees was financed by a national oil project which
also provided the trees. A total of 4,190 ha were terraced and planted from 1986 to 1990, as
against a total of 4,000 ha initially foreseen for DRS. Part of the program was carried out on
relatively flat land where erosion was not severe.
Other Components
5.14       Constructions (Institutional Support). The project provided for the construction
of a large number of offices, stores and houses, mostly outside the provincial capital. This
program was initially little affected by budget restrictions, and proceeded swiftly during the first
three years. However, delayed payments discouraged contractors, and progress became much
slower in subsequent years. This was progressively resolved and the program was essentially
completed before loan closure (see table 4).
5.15       Cadastral Survey. Aerial photography was completed in 1984, and ground surveys
started in two communes. Due to budget reductions, the work was limited to areas with
potential for land consolidation within the two communes, and responsibilities handed over to



-9-
the 'Service du Cadastre".
6. Project Results and Impact
6.1        The inclusion of economic and social infrastructure components into an already
complex project stemmed from the desire to foster economic development and improvement in
living conditions in an area which had been largely neglected in the past. After project
restructuring, these programs were pursued by line agencies who have now become more active
in the project area. The rest of this section will thus focus exclusively on the development and
resource management aspects of the project.
Rainfed Crop Development
6.2        Rainfed crop development was to result from: area expansion; a shift towards fodder
and pulses; and yield increases. Area has indeed expanded, although this was not clearly
influenced by the project. Cropping patterns have also changed, but this was in favor of cereals,
particularly bread wheat, while pulses remained stable, and fodder crops lost some ground. The
reasons for such changes have not been investigated. They seem to involve three series of
factors: (i) national policies favoring bread wheat; (ii) the importance of staple cereals for small-
scale farmers: although those farmers have insufficient feed, they cannot afford to grow fodder
crops; by contrast, large-scale farms have more abundant feed supplies from crop residues, and
less need to grow fodder; and (iii) yields of pulses have remained stable over the last decade,
reflecting the comparative paucity of appropriate varieties and technology for legume crops, as
opposed to cereals.
6.3        By contrast, yields of cereals (annex 1, fig. 4) have increased remarkably during
the past decade, as a result of the use of improved seeds, increased fertilizer rates, better land
preparation, and weed control. The project has contributed to this through improved credit and
input availability as well as through well-organized extension work by competent staff.
Arguably, some of these changes would have occurred without the project". However, it is
reasonable to assume that adoption would have been significantly slower, particularly among
small- and medium-scale farmers. This is particularly true of the more demanding changes, such
as using a chiesel plow instead of a cover crop tool, so as to deepen tillage and thus promote
water infiltration as well as root growth. Numerous on-farm trials, demonstrations and visits
were devoted to this technique, which is being adopted by a growing number of farmers.
Livestock Development
6.4        Project activities in nutrition and genetic improvement cannot be expected to have
had, directly, any significant influence on livestock development. The envisaged sylvo-pastoral
and range developments did not take place on any significant scale. The distribution of
improved animals was late, involved very few animals, and is not expected to make a significant
v     It would seem that cultural practices and yields had already started to change between the time preparatory surveys were made in the
late 70's and project effectiveness in 1984.



- 10 -
difference unless nutrition is improved. Activities in the veterinary field may have been more
fruitful; the project has allowed staff to be employed more effectively through increased mobility
and access to drugs. As originally conceived, with free services and distribution of medicines,
these activities would not be sustainable; but national policies have changed during the
implementation period, and private services are now expanding rapidly.
6.5        This generally bleak picture should not hide a number of potentially important
developments. First, silage, hay and feed processing (straw chopping and blending with urea
and molasses) units, now operated by cooperatives, could play a large role in providing year-
round quality feed, as this could alleviate an increasingly serious marketing problem by levelling
out milk production. However, the feasibility of such techniques depends on national price
policies on industrial by-products (molasses, beetroot pulp)". Second, some useful extension
work has started on pasture improvement (although much remains to be done in terms of
broadening the range of techniques proposed and measuring physical and economic results) and
on genetic improvement through support to producers groups and competitions. Finally,
increased reliance precisely on cooperatives and producers groups should likely compel
technicians to pay more attention to farmers' views and increase the sustainability of project
activities.
6.6         The lack of a clear strategy for livestock development was a major reason for a
confused approach and mixed results. This was perceived during implementation and became
a recurrent theme in supervision reports since 1986, but to little avail. In fact, putting together
a livestock strategy for the project was difficult without re-assessing national policies for the
subsector, which could hardly be achieved in the framework of an area development project.
The staff's lack of familiarity with and attention to market mechanisms only compounded the
problems by focusing activities towards purely technical goals.
Forest Developments
6.7        Basic fire protection was strengthened under the project through the establishment
of observation posts and purchase of necessary equipment. While physical targets of establishing
plantations were achieved, a proper evaluation of this component should await inventories which
have not yet been completed. Two remarks are, however, in order. First, the envisaged targets
were modest, relative to regular Government programs which involve some 5,000 ha annually.
This guaranteed implementation capacity, but weakened the rationale for inclusion in the project.
Second, introducing management plans in the large state forests which had no such plans (about
100,000 ha), was considered an important long-term objective, involving the adoption of quick
reconnaissance surveys to supplement existing data. This objective has not been achieved.
6.8        The DRS fruitiere program has in the end attracted sizeable interest from farmers
and oil cooperatives have been created to ensure the maintenance of the plantations. The success
Iv    In addition to rmgular subsidies on thewe by-products, there are special drought relief programs supplying livestock owners with cheap
imported feeds. TIe project feed units were idle during the mission's visit because of such a program, put in place following the severe 1991/92
drought.



- 11 -
of this program  can be attributed to expected returns from  plantations.  Sylvo-pastoral
developments, limited to 5% of initial targets and to thinning operations, can at best provide
information on the influence of thinning on forage yields, if adequately monitored.
Economic Returns
6.9        Notwithstanding the near absence of reliable data on project impact, an indicative
economic analysis was carried out on the agricultural element, based on benefits from cereal
intensification ". The analysis results in an ERR of 13.9%, equivalent to the appraisal estimate
although agriculture had to support all project investment costs.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        The Government is clearly committed to funding recurrent public costs for
maintaining agriculture support services as well as forest plantations. In addition, project
activities in extension are being further expanded through support from the Research and
Extension project (3036-MOR); this will be particularly important to sustain motivation and to
ensure continuing research support. Commercial activities relating to animal breeding and feed
production have all been transferred to cooperatives or other producer organizations.
7.2        The sustainability of agricultural intensification also depends on continued
availability of inputs and on access to markets. With the progressive liberalization of markets
and prices which was supported by two sector adjustment loans, this condition is increasingly
being met.
7.3        On the institutional side, the good organization and management system put in place
in the Khemisset DPA serves both as an example for other DPAs to emulate, and to attract new
projects to the province, as it is known that these will be properly executed. Through such
projects, the province has access to new resources, which also contribute to maintaining staff
morale. As already noted, the policy of entrusting producers organizations with services
heretofore ensured by government agencies should promote greater responsiveness and
durability, although the move is too recent for proper evaluation.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        The project benefitted from  continuity, regularity and focus in the Bank
supervisions. The focus, as is shown in mission composition (Table 8b), was on agricultural
extension, a component which became successful thanks to such support. Given limited
resources for supervision, this was a wise choice, originating from implementation experience
in the four other integrated development projects (Fes-Karia-Tissa, Meknes, Middle-Atlas and
Loukkos). However, if the difficulties associated with other components were apparent from
the onset, then why was the project not simplified right from the start? Part of the answer lies
Basic auumptions, mnethodology and results are discussed in a separate working paper. The results are sumnarized in Table 6 of Part
ml.



- 12 -
in the fact that those projects suffered numerous delays, and did not yield very clear lessons
before their joint review in 1985. While the emphasis on extension was justified, it is
unfortunate, given the competence and dedication of project staff, that stronger support was not
extended to other important areas, in particular those contributing to improved livestock
nutrition.
8.2        The Bank proved responsible and flexible in modifying project design and reducing
project scope in the face of mounting budgetary difficulties. However, this was not done in a
systematic way. A re-formulation process based on a full review could have avoided to carry
along components such as sylvo-pastoral activities which are complex and require thorough
studies of beneficiary organization and range management systems. The measures taken to
improve the financial situation under the Project (a special account and higher disbursement
percentages) had little effect. This was because procedures remained cumbersome until 1990
and were not well understood by MARA or the DPAs. Certainly, this could been resolved
earlier with proper advice from the Bank.
8.3        The Bank did much to ensure that the project would take best advantage of the
experience of previous projects and of the facilities they could offer for training. In particular,
visits organized to Middle-Atlas DRS activities have been instrumental in raising interest for
similar activities in Oulmes Rommani and to overcome local resistance to this component.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        Whenever project objectives were shared with the Bank, Government pursued them
with equal determination. This involved in particular the nomination of competent and dedicated
staff, and their support by headquarters administrations, as well as the allocation of other needed
resources to the project, to the extent this was possible during this difficult period.
9.2        The failure to carry out M&E beyond the mere recording of implementation
parameters, already noted, deserves to be emphasized, since evaluation is essential to ensure that
real objectives are not lost sight of and to build experience for future action. Similar difficulties
were encountered with the previous regional projects. This seems to be a recurrent issue, in
which external consultants can be of limited help if there is no local commitment.
10. Lessons Learned
10.1      Using existing regional government institutions for project implementation allowed
to strengthen these and contributed to project sustainability. DPAs such as the Khemisset DPA
which have successfully carried out a Bank project are considered as more efficient and receive
more national resources than others.
10.2      This project also illustrates the potency of well-conceived and organized area
development activities, provided economic conditions, including national policies, are favorable.
Cereal intensification is a case in point. By contrast, livestock development has been little
successful, in spite of dedicated and technically competent staff. It is hoped that the interplay



- 13 -
between local development and national policies would become more apparent to policy makers
as well as to technicians, and thus the need on one side for sectoral strategies, and on the other
side for constant attention to economic evaluation of proposed technologies.
10.3      The Project illustrates the difficulty of pursuing too many diverse objectives,
particularly in the context of projects which are to serve as pilot experiments. However, by
timely restructuring and by concentrating on a single component, extension, which has benefited
from continuous attention from Bank supervision missions, the project has probably reached its
major agricultural production and income objectives. Other lessons include: (i) the need to
immediately review a project if confronted from the start with major counterpart funding
problems; (ii) the value of focus and continuity in project supervisions; and (iii) the need to plan
M&E from the onset and to integrate M&E activities into annual work programs.
11. Project Relationship
11.1      The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was excellent at various levels.
The relationship between Bank staff and Project staff has always been particularly good.
12. Consultancy Services
12.1      Outside of consulting services for studies and design work for infrastructure, which
were satisfactorily carried out, the project envisaged a total of 48 man-months of short-term
technical assistance (TA) for cork-oak forest management, research and extension, livestock and
M&E, and two years of long-term assistance to assist in the initial implementation of the forest
range component. All TA, except for M&E, was cancelled during project restructuring in 1987
and this also hampered project execution. Technical assistance for M&E, mostly in the form
of training, produced few tangible results. The training was initiated in 1989 only (this was the
initial closing year), underlining the low priority given by project management to this activity
(para 9.3).
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1      The involvement of project authorities in the project's preparation and the fact that
the general principles of the project and its objectives (with the notable exceptions of sylvo-
pastoral works) were well understood by all officials concerned, greatly contributed to the
understanding of the appraisal document, which proved a useful guide during implementation.
For the PCR, the DPA collected satisfactory information on the physical implementation of the
project. This, however, could not make up for the paucity of data on the impact of project
activities, as should have been produced by M&E, and thus no accurate project impact analysis
can be envisaged.
The final audit report received in January 1994 was satisfactory.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OUIMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2217-MOR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translated from the Original French Version)
(a)    Verification of the data in Parts I and II:
The data presented in the project completion report are consistent with those at the Khemisset
Provencial Agricultural Directorate (DPA), with the exception of several data in Table 4: Proiect\
Implementalion. (lhe figures in Table 4 have been corrected to reflect these changes).
(1) Under "equipment":
The figure should be 500 units of improved sheep and not cattle (the titles should be
reversed).
(2) With regard to market construction/improvement, only 4 of the planned 14 operations
were carried out, and the rest were cancelled.
(3)    The construction of water points is not shown:
*Planned: 61 units
*Actual: 27 units
(4)    With regard to small and medium-scale irrigation:
Of the 11 perimeters estimated at appraisal, only 6 were maintained:
-New Perimeters Schemes: 400 ha    completed: 0
-Rehabilitated perimeters: 160 ha  completed: 163 ha
(5)    Housing:      *Estimated: 73 units
*Actual: 48 units (instead of 46)
(6)    Education:    *Estimated: 188 units
*Completed: 86 units (83 classrooms + 3 residential buildings)



- 15 -
(7)    Pasture Land:
A distinction should be made between:
i) Pasture land inside forest areas
*Actual: 2,000 ha
*Estimated: 300 ha
ii) Improvement of pasture land outside forests
*Actual: 490 ha experimental
*Estimated: 900 ha extension
(b)    Comments on Part I:
(1)    Project design and organization (pp. 4-5)
In general, the report accurately reflects main project issues, in particular with regard to
problems encountered. As project implementation was carried out during a particularly difficult
period for the economy, in which the situation in the agriculture sector was exacerbated by drought.
These two major constraints had a significant impact on the implementation of project activities
during the initial investment period (1984-1989). Nevertheless, the cumulative delays were eliminated
when changes were made to the program. This was possible thanks to:
-     an extension of the duration of the project, decided by mutual agreement with the
Bank in 1989;
-      a better general financial situation that made possible early notification of credits and
compliance with payments to the enterprises;
the establishment of a special account and improvement in the repayment rate;
closer coordination with the Ministry of Finance at both the central and regional
levels;
-      streamlining of IBRD's contract monitoring procedures, with the Ministry of Finance
being able to establish project eligibility.
Overall, given these constraints, the report paints an entirely positive picture, which the
project management shares with the evaluation mission.



- 16 -
(2)    Project implementation and impact
*p.7, para. 5.5 [French version]: It is stated that monitoring of extension did not consider the
impact of the techniques adopted. The impact study is scheduled for 1995.
*p.8, para. 5.8 [French version]: It should be pointed out that the genetic improvement
program based on distribution of Timadhit breeding rams has made stockfarmers more aware of the
importance of establishing pure bred herds and the need to promote the establishment of stockraising
cooperatives with a view to membership in ANOC.
*p.8, para. 5.10 [French version]: With an expected increase in milk production, it was
planned to expand and rehabilitate small and medium-scale irrigation perimeters, purchase purebred
breeding animals by the stockfarmers and improve the local breed in conjunction with the bull and
stallion centers.
The small and medium-scale irrigation program was partially implemented (163 ha of the 600
ha planned), and fell behind schedule; the purchase of heifers was limited by the limited credits
granted by the CNCA, which made its approval contingent on the existence of on-farm irrigated
forage crops.
The male breeding animals for the bull and stallion centers were purchased only in 1991/92;
only 2 breeding animals of the 20 planned were purchased, which accounts for the under-utilization of
the milk collection facilities that were built.
-p.8, para. 5.11 [French version]: Forest development. Beyond the effects of the droughts,
the low establishment rates were due to a dearth of studies, in particular on the soil and
socioeconomic conditions, which would have identified the constraints and species to be planted.
In addition, the management plan was drawn up only after a long period of irrigated
parameter development (up to 15 years for conifers).
It is also necessary to schedule regular maintenance at least three years after contract
execution.
*p.9, para. 5.12 [French version]: With regard to the sylvo-pastoral component, for which a
program involving 12,000 ha had been planned, the following difficulties should be noted:
-     The recruitment of the expert envisaged by the appraisal report (paras. 4.16 and 5.13)
for a two-year period did not become reality. The expert was to carry out the perimeter
development study, monitor implementation and conduct training for personnel.



- 17 -
-      As the techniques for the establishment of the program were not fully mastered, the
project first trained a joint technical team that became operational only in 1988. As such, the
operations began very late and involved only 1,400 ha and not the 580 ha indicated in the
report.
-     The pasture land improvement program that originally envisaged experimentation on
500 ha of communal land was abandoned, in the wake of the refusal of the right holders to
give up the land.
It was replaced by the 900-ha program established in conjunction with SNDE and ANOC, as
indicated in the PCR.
-     The situation described in Bouhssoussen (Middle Atlas Project) is no longer valid.
The forest users are fully familiar with the system and its organization. It was difficult to
transfer this experience to the project area without an indepth sociological study. There
should also be sufficient time for the local population to adopt the rangeland management
system.
-      The lack of reliable data on the impact of the various forestry operations on oak trees
(pruning, thinning, clearing out, etc.) sparked a certain amount of prudence on the part of the
forest agents responsible for environmental protection. The preliminary studies should have
been carried out first.
In this respect, performance of the contract with Hassan II University should have been
completed for the resumption of the sylvo-pastoral improvement works that were necessary to make
up for the fodder deficit and protect the forest, with involvement on the part of the local inhabitants.
*p.10, para. 6.2 [French version]: With regard to the increase in area planted to cereals,
pulses and fodder crops, it should be noted that in addition to the reasons mentioned in the PCR,
stagnation in the area planted to pulses is also due to the following constraints:
-     Techniques for controlling pests, primarily choke-weed and anthracnose, are difficult
for the farmers to master. Extension activities continue, but the ideal solution is making
resistant varieties available to the farmer:
-     the un-availability and high cost of selected seed;
-      the high cost of plant health products.
With regard to the area planted to fodder crops, there is also the problem of the unavailability
of high-performance varieties from INRA for rainfed zones and a dearth of selected seed on the
market.



- 18 -
(3)    Project sustainability: (p.12, para.7.1 [French version])
It should be stressed that the Oulmes-Rommani project made a major contribution through its
human and especially financial resources to the establishment and implementation of the extension
master plan (training and visit system). The Mara Plant Production Department should ensure the
sustainabiity of the achievements of the Oulmes-Rommani project by ensuring the operation of the
system and the personnel involved.
(4)    Monitoring and Evaluation: (p.14, para.9.2 [French version])
The monitoring and evaluation system should be set up at the time of project preparation, and
the necessary human and physical resources allocated.
(c)    Bank performance during project implementation:
The Bank was involved on an ongoing basis in the monitoring of the project, as demonstrated
by the number of missions made during the life of the project. Certain areas received greater
attention than others. Thus, the extension component received constant support, which was a major
factor in its success. Similar support would have been also useful in the reworking of the project,
as early as 1985 during the sectoral review of projects. This point was adequately discussed in the
report (p. 13, paras. 8.1 and 8.2 [French versioni).
(d)    Performance of the Borrower during project implementation:
Despite the implementation difficulties, the project nevertheless succeeded in making certain
achievements, primarily:
-     the establishment of an effective extension system. The main improvements made
under the project involved the reorganization of extension structures, planning of extension
actions and the establishment of an outreach extension vulgarisation approchee system.
These efforts were recognized internationally after a gold medal was awarded by FAO to the
Khemisset DPA.
-     the completion of a large-scale reforestation program and DRS fruitierer with a view
to protecting natural resources and the environment. Some 15,800 ha were affected in this
connection.
-       the establishment of support infrastructure, the return on which must be maximized
through maintenance actions focused on intensification, development of agricultural production
and occupational support.



- 19 -
The main lessons to be drawn from this project are summarized briefly below:
-      The involvement of several technical departments at times caused coordination
problems. In order to reduce these difficulties, the modalities of coordination should have
been clearly defined and the coordination accepted as an important aspect of the project.
-     The participation of the target groups in the various project phases (design, startup,
implementation and operation) is a fundamental goal and key to the project's success.
-      The five-year implementation period is a constraint in a project of this scope. In point
of fact, the strategy for this type of project, which is centered on increasing agricultural
production, depends essentially on the establishment of new extension structures. The
establishment of these structures generally takes more time than expected, which from the
outset causes a slippage in other development operations.
-      The development of a monitoring and evaluation system that is well designed and easy
to use is essential as a tool for both management and evaluation, especially in a complex
project of this type.
*     More specifically regarding this project, the high turnover of managers (in the
departments) had a negative impact on the continuity of project operations.
(e)    Relationship between the Bank and Borrower:
Under the Oulmes-Rommani project, relations between the Bank and the Government of
Morocco at various levels were excellent, which enormously facilitated implementation.



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OULMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2217-MOR)
Part m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit Title                                 Purpose                         Years of           Status
Approval                        l
Loan 1602-MOR Fes-Karia-    Improve rural income and social well-being of 33,900
Tissa Agriculture Project    farm families in the project area through improvements
to research, extension services, credit and input     FY78       Closed 06/30/90
supply, as well as through investments in infrastructure
such as roads, schools, health facilities, and water
supply                                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Loan 1848-MOR                Improve the agricultural systems prevailing in Loukkos
Loukkos Rural Development  watershed into sustainable systems by alleviating the.
Project                      destructive effects of soil erosion and increasing     FY80       Closed December
agricultural productivity and incomes of poor farmers.           1988
Project activities were to serve as a model for wider
replication in the Riff region                                                     l
Loan 1602-MOR                Increase production of meat, milk and cereals; increase
lMiddle Atlas-Central Area    of the rural population income and employment; and    FY82       Closed December
Agricultural Development     reverse environmental deterioration of forest and range           1990
Project                      lands
Loan 2367-MOR                Increase agricultural production by increasing
Fifth Agricultural Credit    agricultural lending of CNCA                           FY84       Closed 03/17/87
Project                                                                                                          l
Loan 2590-MOR                Support the first phase of implementation of the
Agricultural Sector          Government's program of adjustments in the
Adjustment Loan              agricultural sector. The principal objectives of the   FY85       Closed
sector adjustment program were to improve the growth             June 1987
rate in agriculture within the overall constraints in
public resources
Loan 2731-MOR                Increase agricultural production by increasing
Sixth Agricultural Credit    agricultural lending of CNCA                           FY87       Closed
Project                                                                                        February 1990
Loan 3088-MOR                Supports CNCA's efforts to adapt its organization and
National Agricultural Credit  procedures so that it can respond to an accelerated              Closed
Project                      investment rate by the private sector in the rural areas  FY90    December 1993
of Morocco
Loan 2885-MOR Second         Support the second phase of implemnentation of the
Agricultural Sector          Government's medium-term agricultural sector
Adjustment Loan              adjustment program within the framework of a general
macro-economic restructuring program. The essential   FY87       Closed
objectives are to foster efficient agricultural growth           April 1992
and to contribute to the reduction of budgetary and
current account deficits to mranageable levels.
Loan 3036-MOR                Supports the reorganization and strengthening of the
Research and Extension       national research system, and the implementation of    FY89       Ongoing
Project                      T&V extension



- 21 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                  Planned Date              Revised Date        Actual Date
Appraisal             March 1982                                     March 1982
Negotiations          October 1982                                   October 1982
Board Approval        December 14, 1982                              December 14, 1982
Loan Signature        May 23,1983                                    May 23, 1983
Loan Effectiveness    August 22, 1983         November 22, 1983    March 5, 1984
February 22, 1984
March 5, 1984
Loan Closing          December 31, 1989       June 30, 1991          December 31, 1992
June 30,1992
December 31, 1992



-  22  -
Table 3: Loan Disbursement
Fiscal Year                   1984  |  1985  |  1986  | 1987  |  1988   |  1989  |  1990  |  1991  |  1992  | 1993
US$ Million
|.................. ..... .................................................. ...............  U$Mlin....... .................................................................. . .. . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . ..
Appraisal
Estimate                        1.60             4.10              9.00    14.80    24.10    29.00    30.00                                                  -                 -                           l
Cumulative
Actual
Cumulative                     0.44               1.06             1.21              3.07              5.81             5.92              6.98              8.87    10.85    12.69
Actual as %
of Estimates   28                              27                13                21               24                20                23                30                36               42



-   23   -
Table 4: Project Implementation
Component                 Estimated Total at Appraisal            Actual           Actual of Estimate           Actual % of
Estimate
Buildings
Office, storage, workshop                                70 units                                              70                     100
Houses                                                  73 units                                              48                       66
Others                                                  40 units                   29                         26                       90
Education                                               188 units                 26                          86                       46
Health                                                   2 units                                               2                      100
Veiclell
Cars, trucks                                             86 unit                     -                         50                      58
Tractors, trailors                                       36 units                  16                           8                       50
Motorcycles                                             34 units                    -                         25                       73
Equipmentl
Office and small equipment                            1,190 units                   -                          -                       90
Agricultural equipment                                  34 units                  29                           -                       87
Lnproved animals, sheep,                               500 units                                             154                       39
cattle                                                  20 units                    -                          2                       10
Staff (Extension)                                      37 number                                                9                       24
Sylvo-Pastoral Improvaneset
Cork and holm oak                                       9,000 ha                                           1,400                        7
Forests Pasture land                                    2,000 ha                                             300                       45
Forage shrub plantation                                 1,000 ha                                             430                       43
Forage nursery                                            I unit                                               -                        -
Pasture land outside forests                                490                                              900
(experimental)                                    (extension)
Forest Improvement
Erosion contrololive plantAtion                         2,000 ha                                           4,190                      209
Plantations                                            12,000 ha                                          11,600                       90
Nursery                                                   I unit                                               1                      100
Agriculture Improvanent
Pulse (increased area) 2/                               6,000 ha                                             180                        3
Forage (increased area)                                 9,000 ha                                           2,600                       28
Silage and straw treatment                              1,800 ha                                             130                        7
Destoning                                               2,000 ha                                               0                        0
Bush clearing                                           2,000 ha                    -                          0                        0
Beneficiaries credit 3/                              6,000 units                    -                    <3,000
Pilot farms 4/                                         180 units
Participating farmers 5/                           6,130 number                     -                      3,000                       50
New irrigation schemes                                   400 ha              cancelled
Rehabilitation of schemes                                 160 ha                                          163 ha                      100
Demonstration farms                                     20 units
Technical Assistance                                       72 mm                    12                         12                       16



-   24   -
Component                 Estimated Total at Appraisal             Actual          Actual of Estimate           Actual S of
Estimate
Studies
Small irrigation                                           I unit                                             1/2                      50
Underground water Oulmes                                  I unit                                               I                      100
Underground water Tanoubert                               I unit             cancelled                         -                        -
Roads
New and rehabilitated                                    291 km                                               50                       17
Maintenance                                            1,190 kmn                                           1,010                       85
Cadastral survey
Photography                                           3,200 km2                                            3,200                      100
Analysis                                                                     cancelled                         -                        -
Markets
Construction/improvement                                 14 units                   -                          4                      100
Sewage
Construction                                           9 villages                   3                          3                      100
Study                                                    9 units                    -                          5                       56
Flood control
Construction                                            I village            cancelled                         -                        -
Study                                                     I unit
Electricity network
Construction                                              25 km
Study                                                     I unit
Pavement of side streets                                   10 km                                                 -                       -
Wells                                                     61 units                                             27                       44
11       Reduction due to project restructuring
2/       See Annex I Fig 3
3/       See Annex I Fig. 1
4/       Extension approach has changed in 1987 (see Part I)
5/       Members of contact groups regularly visited.



-  25  -
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Item                      Estimates               Actual    Actual as
Local Foreign Total                       %
Exchange                          Estimates
---------- US$ Million ---------
Agricultural Development
5.0    1.7    6.7              5.3          79
Livestock Production
and Range Management        4.7    2.7    7.4               1.9          26
Irrigation Infrastructure
1.5    0.6    2.1              0.2          10
On-farm Investments         5.1    2.0    7.1               N/A
Incremental Inputs          6.2    4.1   10.3               N/A
Forest Developments         8.9    6.1   15.0               9.2          61
Research                    1.9    0.8    2.7               0.3          11
Cadastral Survey            2.0    1.2    3.2               0.2          6
Rural Roads                 3.0    2.7    5.7               1.3          23
Social Infrastructure       4.4    2.6    7.0               0.7          10
School and Health
Building                    2.6    1.8    4.4               N/A
Studies, Training,
Technical Assistance        0.9      1.1     2.0            0.7          35
Contingencies              20.8   10.6   31.4               N/A
Total                      67.0   38.0   105.0              19.8         19
Source: SAR and DAP



- 26 -
B. Financing
Source                      Planned                    Actual
------------------------------ US$ MNILLION ---------------------------
IBRD                         30 0                      12.69
CNCA                         13.5                       N/A
Beneficiaries                   10.2                       N/A
Government                     51.8                        7.2
Total                       105.5                       19.8
Source: SAR and DAP
Note: Loan disbursement (see Table 3) occurred mostly after 1986, at a period when the
dollar was much weaker than at appraisal.



-   27    -
Table 6. Project Results
A. Economic Impact
Item                          Appraisal Estimate                    PCR Estimate
Economic Rate of Return
Total Project                                       14                                 13.9
B. Studies
Studies                      Purpose                Status                         Impact
1. Irrigation
Small Scale Irrigation         Engineering Studies       Completed         Construction completed - over 163 ha only
(about 600 ha)                                                             due to insufficient water resource
Water resource insufficient for proposed
development
Groundwater Oulmes             Resource Appraisal        Completed
Groundwater Tanoubet           Resource Appraisal        Cancelled
11. Social Infrastructure
Water Supply                  Engineering Studies       Completed         Program reduced due to insufficient water
resource; revised targets achieved.
Works completed
Water Sewage                  Engineering Studies       Completed
Flood Control                 Engineering Studies       Cancelled
Electricity Supply             Engineering Studies      Cancelled
111. Forestry
Develop cost-efficient   Not carried out
Forestry Management           methods for forestry
management planning.



-  28  -
Table 7. Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement       Section  Original Date Revised Date   Description of Covenants       Status
Loan 2217-MOR 3.01 (c)      04/84          07/86     CNCA shall provide as needed  In full
funds and services and open    compliance.
seasonal offices.
3.01 (c)      -            10/85     CNCA shall determine ST      In full
credit requirements, on basis of compliance.
product. costs, farm size and
cult. practices.
3.03       11/85         07/86     National Committee shall     Three year
determine annually in consult.  contract
with Bank INRA's research    signed with
programme.                   INRA.
3.04                     09/89    DPA shall forward to the Bank Regularly
annual in-service training   provided.
programme each September.
3.05 (c)                             PMU shall furnish semi-annual In
progress report.             compliance.
4.02                               Govt. shall prov. annual project Complied
budget resources separately and with.
furnish budget annually to
Bank.
4.03 (c)                             Audit project accounts and send Complied
to Bank.                     with.
4.05                               Establishment of water users'  Handled
charges for irrigation schemes. under SMSI
projects.
4.06 (a)                            Communes shall contribute to   Works at
O&M of sylvo-pastoral        pilot stage.
improvements.
4.06 (b)                             Establishment of adequate rates Work
for grazing on forest rangeland. started in
1988/89 on
a very small
area.



-  29  -
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Preparation   Appraisal  Negotiations   Supervision    PCR    Total
FY82        22.1         77.5                                             99.6
FY83                      9.4          2.9            1.9                 14.2
FY84                                                  8.9                  8.9
FY85                                                 5.0                   5.0
FY86                                                  9.5                  9.5
FY87                                                 6.9                   6.9
FY88                                                 3.3                   3.3
FY89                                                 10.4                 10.4
FY90                                                 7.5                   7.5
FY91                                                  4.1                  4.1
FY92                                                  3.7                  3.7
FY93                                                  0.7        8.4       9.1
TOTAL        22.1         86.9          2.9           61.9        8.4    182.2



- 30 -
B. Missions
Stage of Project   Month!    Number of   Days in    Specialization     Performance    Ratings 2'   Overal
Year        Persons      Field      represented "     avail funds     Project
MNGMT    Status
Preparation
Appraisal        03/82           5           28      A, E, 1, FO, L                                  2
Supervision 1    10/83           2            6          A, FO                                       2
Supervision 2    05/84           2            6          A, FO                                       2
Supervision 3    10/84           1            5            A                                       N/A  '
Supervision 4    10/85           2            8          A, FO                                       2
Supervision 5    07/86           1           6             A                                         2
Supervision 6    02/87           2           14          A, A               3              2         2
Supervision 7    11/87           1           3             A                3              1         2
Supervision 8    10/88           1           3             A                3              1         3
Supervision 9    04/89           1           4             A                3             2          3
Supervision 10    05/90          2            8          A, L               3              1         2
Supervision 11    12/90          1           2             A                3              1         2
Supervision 12    06/91          1           4             A                2              1         2
Supervision 13    05/92          1           5             A                2              1         2
1/     A: Agriculturist; E: Economist; F: Financial Analyst; FO: Forestry; I: Irrigation Engineer; L:
Livestock Specialist.
2/      1: Problem free; 2: Moderate problems; and 3: Major problems
3/      The Project was prepared between 1979-81 by the Government with the assistance of the CP and there are
insufficient details on staff inputs.
4/      No Form 590 has been completed during this supervision.



-  31   -
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Oulmes - Rommani PCR                               ANNEX I:   KEY STATISTICS                                       Annex 1
Page 1
F?g. 1 - Inp,. Suppiy and Credit in Project Area
9110
*m      19"       13      1L       19"      IO        L_       SO       tn       un
Yea
Sr LoaBn (number)            +Femlhzw (c)
Sieds(t)
Fig. 2 - Fertlizer Use in Oulmes-Rommani and Whole Country
sooo                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
o                                                                                           o
19O
0
Ig79    1Ung 1964  isa                   19" 199   99     1990    199t    199Z
Yeans
Oulmes - Rommani                -,, Wboie Counu-y
Notes:             1. Input supply data refers to sales frm the public distribution system only.
Actual consumption has increased more rapidly due to increased private trade.
2. 1991/195  was a drought year.



-  32  -
Oulmes - Rommani PCR                                                                                                          Annex 1
Page 2
Table 3 - Land Utilization in Project Area ('000 ha)
;::,; 0010;0
Table 4 -    ead t  Y               inldseinSecteProvinc
3l
20 
f'.'I '                  ;U  '  ''
L           : A
10             /
1990    1911    1982      199     1914     1915     1916     1987     1911     1969    1991     1991    199
Table 4-BRadWheat Yields in   Selected Prov                        i
125
19Y     19111    1962     1913    199      1965     198S      191     198      19119    19S0    1991     1992
. Kboo.,ooot          +        Ralac                     Meina



-  33  -
PART m: Annex 2: NOTE ON ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.          Most of the increased agricultural production due to the project was to come
from the introduction of relatively simple improved technical packages and from changes in
cropping patterns (reduction in the area of fallow and increase in the area of fodder and
legumes). Productivity of the herds was also expected to increase due to better nutrition,
herd management and genetic improvement. In addition, a considerable increase in wood
fiber production was envisaged under the project.
2.          The SAR had identified 7 farm models in three ecological zones based on farn
size and type of farming. Separate rates of return had been calculated for 4 components, i.e.
agricultural development, forest, soil conservation and irrigation. The overall economic rate
of return of the project was estimated at 14% over 35 years.
3.      During implementation, a number of components were cancelled or reduced and
only limited data was collected by the monitoring and evaluation unit which made it difficult
to compare project achievements with appraisal expectations. The main project benefit
achieved was an increase in the yields of cereals which more than doubled from about 1.6
t/ha to 2.5 t/ha. This was due to the use of improved seeds, better access to credit and
improved agricultural services in the area. The project did not achieve its objectives in terms
of increased livestock, fruit, vegetable, forage and legume production, and the proportion of
fallow land was not reduced.
4.          With regard to forestry, the project was expected to produce six types of forest
products, including fuelwood and sawlogs. The assumptions made were that plantations
would be established with clear production and management objectives, and that considerable
benefits would also be generated within the protection forests that would be established.
Unfortunately, management plans for the plantations have not yet been undertaken and in the
absence of information on the future use of plantations, it was not possible to conduct a
meaningful reestimation of the ERR of this component.
5.          Given the lack of data to prepare elaborate farm models for the project area,
an illustrative one ha bread wheat farm budget was prepared to assess the project impact
(table 3). Benefits were assumed to be generated from wheat and barley, but expressed in
bread wheat only. The incremental income with project, after costing all inputs including
total labor costs, was adjusted to reflect the economic values of inputs and outputs.
Subsequently, it was aggregated to determine total economic benefits according to the
cropped area. The total cropped area assumed to be affected by the project at full
development is about 100,000 ha, equivalent to the area of wheat and barley in an average



-  34  -
year. The project benefits are expected to accrue in year 4 at the rate of 10%, 20%, 20%
and 30% in succeeding years.
6.           The analysis was carried out in 1992 constant prices. Costs prior to 1992
were expressed in 1992 prices using the consumer price index for local costs and the
manufacturing unit value index for international costs. In line with the SAR, 37% of project
costs were estimated to represent foreign exchange. Annex 2, Table 2 gives the indexes used
in the analysis.
7.           All costs incurred by the project were included in the analysis. Local and
recurrent costs were converted into border prices using a standard conversion factor of 0.8.
Financial values of the farm budget were converted into economic values using conversion
factors of 0.75 for wheat and 0.9 for production costs.
8.          On that basis, an economic rate of return of 13.9% was calculated for the
project which is equivalent to the 14% ERR calculated at appraisal for the overall project.
The net benefits from bread wheat production were sufficient to sustain all costs of the
revised project.



Annex 2
Table 1
MOROCCO
OLJLMES-ROMMANI AGRICLLTURA_ DEVELOPMENT PROJECT LOAN 2217-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Costs (Ctrrmnt Prices)
Item                       1984 It   1985      1988     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     Total
(DH '000)
Agriculklrl Developmernt    5330.75   3999.82   6658.71   2459.89   1804.38   6495.01   5141.81   8869.15   3711.68  49801.75
Livestock Production and
Range Management            1612.91    432.80    712.09   832.20   1235.71   3760.57   3174.57   2609.17   1165.09  17148.02
lrrigaon Infrastructure           0      0.00     0.00     0.00      6.90    736.58    178.00    773.50   0.00   1694.98
FcrestDnevlopment           4722.99   1093.94   4846.24  10298.91  11302.22  11102.08  5874.76  20034.10   6657.99  80656.22
RessErch                     299.07    147.83    771.10   334.97    177.95    0.00     0.00     55.21    459.09   2544.29
Cadastral Survey             427.93     14.48   639.56   403.24     89.01    127.04    37.04     0.00     0.00   2166.23
Rural Roads                    0.52    226.83   7122.12   765.81    333.82    787.80   1024.22    224.10    230.00  10715.74
Socil Infrastructure           2.33   1313.21   1680.68   460.19    516.80    940.03    565.21    298.47  77.20  5856.45
Studes. Training and              0
Technical Assistance        2038.13    537.66    560.23   207.04    969.64   1300.00    0.00    43.14     43.14  7737.11
0
Total Costs                14434.63   7766.57  22990.73  15762.25  16436.43  25249.11  15995.41  32906.84  12344.19 163886.16
Item                       1984 1/   1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     Total
(UJS$ 'OO) 21
Agrculjreal Development    605.8095    415.78    764.49   315.37    219.78    799.88    639.50   1088.24    410.13   5258.98
Livesdock Production and                                                                                            0.00
Range Management           189.2588     44.99    81.76   106.69    150.51    463.12   394.85    320.14    128.74   1880.06
Irrigalon Infrastructure          0      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.84    90.71     22.14    94.91     0.00   208.60
ForestDevelopmerTt         552.9027    113.72    556.40   1320.37   1376.64   1367.25    730.69   2458.17    735.69   9211.84
Reseerch                   36.32087     15.37    88.53    42.94     21.67     0.00      0.00     6.77     50.73   262.34
Cadastrl Survey            44.97133      1.51    73.43    51.70     10.84    15.65      4.61     0.00     0.00   202.70
Rural Roads                 0.05445     23.58    817.69    98.18    40.66    97.02   127.39     27.50    25.41   1257.49
SocilIntrastnrcture        0.243979    136.51    192.96    59.00    62.95    115.77    70.30    36.62     8.53   682.88
Stucies, Trainirng and            0      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0,00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Technicel AssIstance       270.4093     55.89    84.32    26.54    118.10    160.10     0.00     5.29     4.77   705.43
0     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Costa                1699.971    807.34   2639.58   2020.80   2002.00   3109.50   1989.48   4037.65   1364.00  19670.31
1/ includes costs related to 1 9S arnd 1983.
2/ Exchange rates used are: US$ 1- 6.27; 8.06; 9.55; 9.62; 8.71; 7.60; 8.21; 8.12; 8.04; 8.15; and 9.05 for th. years 1982 to 1992 respectvely.



Annex 2
OULMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                       Table 2
OULMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGECT (LOAN 2217-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Costs (DH'000)
Year
1984      85         86        87        88        89        90         91        92       Total
Local current costs (63% of Total)  9093.82   4892.94  14484.16   9930.22  10354.95  15906.94  10077.11  20731.31   7776.84 103248.28
Consumer Price Index (CPI)      310.50    334.60    363.70    373.80    382.40    394.40    420.90    455.30    477.80
Price increase (1992=100)         0.65      0.70      0.76      0.78       0.80      0.83      0.88      0.95       1.00
Localcost(constant)           13990.49   6989.91  19058.11  12731.05  12943.69  19164.99  11451.26  21822.43   7776.84 125928.76
Local cost adjusted by SCF 1/    11192.39   5591.93  15246.48  10184.84  10354.95  15331.99   9161.01  17457.94   6221.47 100743.01
Foreign Exch. Costs (37% of tot.)  5340.81   2873,63   8506.57   5832.03   6081.48   9342.17   5918.30  12175.53   4567.35  60637.88
MUVIndex                         68.05     68.60     80.89     88.84      95.31     94.65    100.00    102.11    106.53
Price Increases 1992= 100         0.64      0.64      0.76      0.83       0.89      0.89      0.94      0.96      1.00
Costs Adjusted by MUV          8345.02   4490.05  11192.86   7026.55   6833.12  10496.82   6296.07  12682.84   4567.35  71930.67
Total Adjusted costs          19537.41  10081.98  26439.34  17211.38  17188,07  25828.81  15457.07  30140.79  10788.82 172673.68
1/ Standard Corversion Factor: 0.8



Annex 2
Table 3
MOROCCO
OULMES- ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2217 -MOR)
PPOJECT COMPLETiON REPORT
One Hetare Brrad Whet BudAet
1. Ountifs                                                  Wo                               With
Proclt                          Project
iUnt                                     Yt         Y2         Y3
ProdricUan
Yeld                   grain            t                      1.8                  1.8        2.2         2.5
straw            t                     1 3                  1.4         1.8        1.7
Seeds                  ordi-ury         kg                    120                   120         80         80
seiected 11      kg                                                     e0          80
Frtlizer                14-28-14        kg                     50                    e0         80        100
ursa             kg                                          10         30         50
AIN              kg                                          10         30          50
Herbicide              2-4 0             1                                                     0.5           1
Machines               plow 2/          Is                     30                    30         30         30
chisb           Is                                                     150         150
cover-aop        Is                   220                   220        110         110
seed drill      Is                                                                 110
combine         Is                                                     210        240
tnbl            la                    250                  28          500        640
Labour                 sowing           d                       2                    2           2
weedng           d                      5                     5          3           1
harvat           d                      8                     9          1           1
other            d                      1                     1          2          2
totl             d                                           18 17       a          4
11. Vtue di Productlain  id Cos                             W/O                              With
-  Project                          Proect
Unkt                                     Yt         Y2         Y3
Vsise of Prockjctlan
grin              2700               4320                  4880       5940       8750
sifeW              800               1040                  1120       1280        1380
Prodctlon Co
Seds                   ordinary            2.7                324                  324         182        1t2
sedected          3.78                                                 22t        220
FertilIzer              14-28-14           2.2                110                   132        178        220
urea               2.2                                       22         88         110
AIN               1.82                                     18.2        48.8        81
Herbiclde              2-40                 50                                                  25          50
Machirss               plow 11              Is                 30                    30         30         30
chbel               Is                                                 150         150
cowr-aop            Is                220                  220         110         110
seed drill          Is                                                            110
combine             Is                                                 200        225
tote                Is                250                  250         490        am0
Labour                 sowing              30                  80                   8o          80
weddrg              30                150                   150         90          30
harveet             30                240                   270         30         30
caer                30                 30                    30         o0          80
total               30                4iX                  510         240        120
Tota crb                                                     1414                1154        13          2219
Grnoa hcotte                                                3348                  4476       5Nl7        iSX
Inreretal hIinccmie                                                                SWG       1351       1t45
1/onrl  every 2years
2 once every br years



Annex2
Tabte 4
MOROCCO - WIMKES ROMKANI AGRICULTURAL DTEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COM4PLETION REPORT - ECoNamI ANALYSIS
ORH  000
1         2         3         4          5         6          7         a         9         10        11        12         13       14.        15       16    17-25
Investme*nt costs
investment costs             19537.4  10082.0  26439.3  17211.'4  17188.1  25828)3  15457.1  30140.8  101388.5                   -         -                    -         --
Recurrent Costs                     -          -         -         -          -         -          --  -                    5440.0   5440.0   5440.0   5440.0   5440.0   5440.0   5440.0   5440.0
On-Farm Costs                       -          -         -         -          -         --  -      -                              -    800.0   6200.0  10100.0  32700.0  48100.0 64900.0  73000.0
Total Economic Costs          19537.4  10082.0  26439.3  11211.4  17188.1  25028.8  15457.1  30140.8  108L318. 8   5440.0   6240.0  11640.0  23540.0  31814,0.0  53540.0  70340.0  75440.0
Benefits
Increm. prod. in Ton-s              -          .         -         -          -         -   2000.0   7000.0  14500.0  23500.0  34500.0  40500.0  45000.0  45000.0  45000.0 45000.0  45000.0
economic price of whe,at            .          .         -                    -         -       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0
incremental benefits                           .         -         -          -         -   4050.0  14175.0  29362.5  47587.5  691562.5  82012.5  91125.0  91125.0  91125.0 91125.0  91125.0
net incremental benefits -19537.4 -10082.0 -26439.3 -17211.4 -17188.1 -25028.8 -114,07.1 -15965.8  184T3.7  42147.5  63622.5  70372.5  67505.0  52985.0  3 7585.0 20785.0  12685.0
6/14/1993 17:18
Switching Valujes at  10.0%
Appraisal       Switching       Percentage
Streain              value            Value           Change
BlOT               296356.3        260868.1            -12.0%
CtOT               2601368.1       296356.3             13.6%
Net Present Value at OCC   10.0% r 35488.2
Interre.-e  Rate of Return =13.9%
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Return 12I.1%



