Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4065-MOR
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE OULMES-ROMMANI
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 12, 1982
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dirham (DH)
US$1.00 = DH 5.30
DH 1.00 = US$o.19
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                     = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                   = 0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)                    = 2.205 lbs
1 ton (t)                          = 2205 lbs
m3 o.b.                             = cubic meter of wood
over bark (with bark)
m3 u.b.                               cubic meter of wood under
bark (without bark)
m3 s                                  solid cubic meter of sawn
wood
ABBREVIATIONS
DEFCS   Forestry Department
(Direction des Eaux et Forets et de la Conservation
des Sols)
FNF     National Forestry Fund
(Fonds National Forestier)
MARA    Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire
MOI     Ministry of Interior
(Ministere de l'Interieur)
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CLCA        Local Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole)
CNCA        National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole)
CNERV       National Extension Centre
(Centre Nationale d'Etudes et de Recherche sur la
Vulgarisation)
DPA         Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
(Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture)
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
(Organisation pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture)
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organization/
World Bank Cooperative Program
(Programme de Cooperation FAO/Banque Mondiale)
FERTIMA     Government Fertilizer Distribution Agency
(Societe Marocaine des Fertilisants)
INRA        National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique)
MARA        Ministry of Agriculture
(Minist4re de l'Agriculture et de la R4forme Agraire)
MOI         Ministry of Interior
(Ministere de l'Interieur)
ONE         National Electricity Board
(Office National de l'Electricite)
ONEP        National Water Board
(Office National de l'Eau Potable)
SONACOS     National Agency for Seed Marketing
(Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Semences)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE OULMES-ROMMANI
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.    Introduction ...............................1.I
II.    The Agricultural Sector ....................................                     I
A.  The Place of Agriculture in The Economy  ....                ............    1
B. Distribution of Agricultural Resources
and Agricultural Performance  .........................                  2
C.  Government Objectives and Strategy .....................                     2
D.   Sector Issues Relevant to The Project  ..................                   3
E.   Bank Involvement in the Agriculture Sector ....               ........      6
III.    The Project Area ...........................................                     7
A.  Physical Features  ......................................                    7
B.   Socio-Economic Features  ................................                   8
C.  Agricultural Services  ..................................                   11
D.   Infrastructure and Social Services  .....................                  13
E.  Major Project Area Constraints and Conclusions  ...               ......    14
IV. The Project ................                                                       15
A.   Project Objectives and Approach ........................                   15
B.  Description of Project Components ......................                    16
C.   Project and Start-Up Activities  ........................                  23
D.   Project Cost Estimates .................................                   23
E.   Financing ..............................................                   25
F.   Disbursements  ..........................................                  26
G.   Procurement ............................................                   27
H.  Accounts,Audits and Reports  ............................    28
I.  Environmental Impact ...................................                   29
V.    Project Implementation .....................................                    29
A.   Coordination and Management of The Project ....                .........   29
B. Principal Agricultural Support Services
for the Project ......................................                  31
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation  ..............................                  38
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in March 1982,
composed of Messrs. B. van de Poll, J-P Chausse, J. Hall, J. Laeyendecker
and N. Roberts (World Bank) and T. Synnott (Consultant).



Page
VI. Production, Marketing, Prices .... .................... , ...............  39
A.  Production ..................39
B.  Prices, Markets and Marketing of Project O    utput .....        40
C.  Supply and Marketing of Project Inputs                ..         43
VII.  Financial Analysis . ..       ...........   .. .....                  44
A.  Financial Implications for Farmers ..................            44
B. Financial Implication to Government
and Cost Recovery .. .... ................ . .....             45
VIII.  Benefits and Justifications ......         ...... ........            48
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries .........................             48
B. Economic Analysis              ...49
C.  Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis ..............            50
IX.  Major Agreements Reached at Negotiations          ......., 52
Annex I:             Project Costs and Disbursements ................        53
Table 1:  Project Costs ...................53
Table 2:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements           56
Annex II:            Selected Documents and Data Available in
Project File       .... . ...        .     .....      57
Annex III:           Implementation Schedule....o...............             59
MAPS
IBRD 16473: Infrastructure and Project Works
IBRD 16474: Land Use



"lNGDO1A OF' MOROCCO
STA'FF APPRAISA-L REPORT OF THE OULMES-ROLANI
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T   Tnt*coduction
1.01    'Ihe proposed project is directed towards the development of crop,
livestock and forestry production, and the provision of better social
services in 7 out of 23 rural communes in the Khemisset Province which is
situated northeast of Rabat; tne capital  AAlthough the project area
selected has relatively favorable ecological conditions, its agricultural
development potential has until now been neglected.  The proposed project
would alleviate some of the constraints to the development of the area,
through an improvement i.n agricultural support services and socio-economic
infrastructure.  This would lead to increased agricultural production and
employraent, raising the farm incomes aTId standard of living of the
predominantly rural population of the project zone.
1.02    'Th.e project was identified by a World Bank FAO/CP mission in
1979.  Preparation was undertaken by Government in close collaboration with
FAO/CP and completed in March 1981.
II. The Agricultural Sector /1
A. ThLe Place of Agriculture in The mEconEj
2.01     Morocco's population is estimated at about 20 million (1980), with
an annual growth rate of 2.9%. Some 60% of the population live in rural
areas, with agriculture providing about 40% of total employment. Per
capita GNP was US0790 in 1979 but about 45% of Moroccan families live at or
below the estimated rural absolute poverty level of US$222 (1981) per
capita. Whilst the share of agricultural employment in the overall labor
market is declining (along with the sector's share in GDP), absolute
employmnent in agriculture is still increasing.
2.02     The value of agricultural output has grown at an average annual
rate of 2.4% (in constant prices) for the past fifteen years, a lower rate
than in the other sectors of the economy and less than the growth of demand
for agricultural products; this has led to a rapid increase in imports.
Agriculture contributed 13.4% to Morocco's GDP in 1978-1980, down from 20%
in 1968-1972 and 15% in 1973-1977. Cereals and pulses contributed 36% to
the agricultural GDP in 1978-1980, with livestock contributing 33%, citrus
11%, vegetables 11%, and industrial crops and forestry about 6%.
/1  For more details on Lhe agricultural sector, see Report 2667-MOR of May
2, 1980 and for the Forestrv subsector see Report 3670-MOR of February
12, 1982.



2.03     Agricultural exports accounted for 32,6% of the value of total
exports in 1980, down from about 58% in 1971-1973.  Food products
represented 86% of total agricultural exports in 1980, with fruits and
vegetables accounting for about 50% of these. Agricultural imports
accounted for 27% of total imports in 1980, with bread wheat, sugar, and
edible oils representing half of agricultural imports. Morocco has been a
net importer of food since 1974.
B. Distribution of Agricultural Resources and Agricultural Performance
2.04     Morocco has a total land area of 67 million ha, of which 760,000
ha are irrigated, and 6.6 million ha are suitable for rainfed crops; forest
covers 7.7 million ha. Of the area under cultivation, 61% consists of
cereals, 7% of pulse crops, 6% of fruit trees, and 22% of fallow.
Livestock production is mainly extensive, based on grazing. Intensive
livestock production in irrigated and high rainfall areas is growing
rapidly, accounting for half of national milk production but only a small
part of red meat production.
2.05     While techniques and production in the irrigated areas have
progressed rapidly, development in the rainfed sector has stagnated and
agricultural yields have progressed only marginally. Cereal, olives and
meat production show no long-run improvement, and the production of pulses
declined during the 1970's. Low overall. yields are the result of poor farm
technology and limited investment in rainfed agriculture, due in part to
the lack of a coherent price policy, and to imperfect Government support
services, particularly, agricultural and livestock extension. Forestry
production is also limited; industrial timber production covers only 25% of
the country's needs, with Morocco's wood product trading balance steadily
deteriorating, and with particularly acute shortages of sawlogs and mining
timber. Production of fuelwood only covers demand at the cost of massive
overexploitation; current consumption is estimated at about 10 million
m3 o.b. per annum, with ar allowable cut of only 3 million m3 o.b. /1.
C. Government Objectives and Strategy
2.06     The 1981-1985 Plan's objectives for the agriculture sector are (i)
improvement of agricultural self-sufficiency through increased production
of staple foods; (ii) increased agricultural exports through intensified
production of off-season vegetables and fruit; (iii) increased domestic
forest production to off-set imports and better meet local demands for
fuelwood and individual wood products; (iv) reduction of social and
regional income disparities through increased investment and employment
creation in depressed areas; and (iv) more emphasis on processing and
marketing of agricultural products.
2.07     The strategy proposed to achieve the objectives stated above
includes (i) increasing the share devoted to agriculture in the public
investment program; (ii) increasing public investment in the rainfed sector
/1 FAO estimate, o.b.= without bark.



and in small- and medium-scale irrigation schemes; (iii) pursuing input and
output price policies which will ensure equitable returns to the farmer and
stimulate import substitution for the basic foodstuffs; (iv) adaptating the
land-ownership system to encourage rational and intensive use of resources;
(v) strengtening the planning and project preparation capabilities of the
Ministry of Agriculture; and (vi) expanding the role and lending program of
the Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA).
2.08     The priority given by the Government to the agricultural sector is
reflected in the increase in public investment allocation in the current
Five-Year Plan (1981-1985). Agriculture (dams excluded) is allocated 22.5%
of total planned public investment, as compared to 18% in the 1973-1978
Five-Year Plan and, on an annual basis, the program is about 25% larger in
real terms than during the previous plans. The proposed lending program of
CNCA amounts to DH 11 billion for 1981-1982 and represents a substantial
increase in real terms over previous plans, both for seasonal and
investment credit. An important expansion of the CNCA network in the
rainfed areas is foreseen.
2.09     The proposed project would be in line with the Government's Plan
objectives and the proposed investments would be mainly allocated to the
rainfed sector. To realize the objectives of the project (paras 1.01,
4.01) a number of specific sectoral issues have to be addressed.
D. Sector Issues Relevant to The Project
Input and Output Price Policy
2.10     The Government's intervention in the agricultural sector through
price regulation and subsidies is discussed in detail in the Agriculture
Sector Memorandum on Morocco 11 and is further discussed in chapters VI
and VII. In summary, the existing price structure for agricultural and
forestry products is sufficiently attractive to stimulate increased farm
production, and is in line with projections for international commodity
prices. The detailed impact on farm production of subsidies for selected
on-farm investments, improved seeds, fertilizer and credit is however
unclear. For this reason Government has decided to review and amend as
necessary the Agricultural Investment Code under which, among other
matters, current agricultural subsidies are defined (para 7.03). A study
of the impact of current subsidies and required reforms to the Agriculture
Investment Code is being financed under the Loukkos project (Loan 1848-MOR).
Land Tenure
2.11     As is the case throughout Morocco land distribution in the project
area is skewed, with about 75% of the farm families owing less than 25% of
the land. Most of these farms are too small to be economically viable
particularly with so many subject to low rainfall (300-500 mm), relatively
steep slopes (over 10%), or too much fragmentation for intensive farming.
/1 Report 2667a-MOR of 1980



-4-
Absentee landlords who hold land for speculative purposes either leave it
idle, or have it cultivated by tenant farmers who have no security. These
land tenure problems restrict the use of modern production techniques and
agricultural credit. The Government in Morrocco is attempting to address
land tenure issues through the Investment Code and through land reform
measures. Among Bank-supported operations, the Meknes project (Credit
555-MOR) included a trial program for land consolidaton on private land and
for the creation of viable holdings on collective land (para 3.04). In
order to obtain a better understanding of land usage problems and possible
future land consolidation programs in the project area, the project would
include a cadastral survey to catalogue the ownership of the project's
agricultural lands (oara. 4.29).
Livestock and Pastoral Development
2.12     Traditional livestock production depends upon stubble and fallow
grazing, and upon the forage resources of forest and range lands, which
between them supply about 80% of forage consumed. Productivity of
traditional livestock is low dtue to inadequate nutrition, and due also to
(i) poor health and a lack of shelters and water points; (ii) poor genetic
characteristics; and (iii) undeveloped milk production potential due to a
lack of collection facilities.  The 1978-1981 Development Plan neglected
traditional livestock production, particularly in the areas of lower
rainfall, and the Government has not yet dealt adequately with range
management. At current levels of forage production, the national herd
receives only some 80% of its food needs--even after taking account of
overgrazing of the forest areas. The current Plan recognizes both the
importance of livestock in collective grazing areas, and of the forestry
range.  The share of livestock investment in total agricultural investments
would almost double to 1i%, with over half of it allocated to collective
grazing areas. There is a need to define a strategy for improving the
management and productivity of range lands, based on organization of the
local population and the integrated development of agro-sylvo-pastoral
forage resources. Tne Government has recently begun this task (both the
Livestock and the Forestry Departments have started implementation of
sylvopastoral improvements on collective and forest state land
respectively) and the project would assist by developing further methods.
Forestry Development and Erosion Control
2.13     Morocco's forest resources are declining at a dramatic rate.  It
is estimated that annually 20,000 ha of forest which are being harvested
are not regenerated (for details see footnote page 2). Population growth
and economic development have resulted in increased domestic demand for
fuelwood and industrial timber.  Morocco's reforestation efforts have not
kept pace with domestic demand and the country relies increasingly on wood
imports (para. 2.05), wnile conversion of range land into agricultural land
due to population pressire has led to increased grazing pressure on the
forests. Action is required to (i) integrate forestry and livestock
development, and to raise fodder production on Government forest land by
adequate range mangement practices; and (ii) to improve forest management,



- 5 -
regulating overcutting and overgrazing, and increasing rate of planting
with fast-growing species,   The proposed project would promote the
integration of wood fiber and forage production and would also develop
purely productive plantations using fast growing species.
2.14     The pressure on State forest land has also resulted in areas being
stripped of their natural vegetation, and soils are either exploited until
exhausted or carried away by erosion. Inappropriate farming methods are
likewise destroying the productive capacity of cultivable soils. The
proposed project would address these soil erosion issues and would promote
a range of soil conservation measures in the forestry program and through
the extension service.
Research
2.15     Morocco's agricultural research is undertaken on 46 stations and
in 20 laboratories. Despite some positive technical results, in particular
in the development and production of new cereal varieties, the impact of
research on agriculture has not been sufficient. Reasons include (i) too
little attention paid to the practical problems of farm production systems;
(ii) inadequate transmission of results to farmers through the extension
system, and little verification of recommendations by on-farms trials;
(iii) poor coordination between researchers, and a lack of policy
definition; and (iv) poor administration, low salaries, and a general
shortage of human, physicial and financial resources. To overcome those
constraints, the Government created the semi-autonomous National Institute
for Agricultural Research (INRA) in December 1980, responsible for
coordination and execution of agricultural research. With Bank assistance
preparation of a Research Master Plan is underway as a first step to
improve INRA's organization and to define research policies and
priorities. The project would carry out some formal research on
agriculture in upland areas, not at present undertaken elsewhere in
Morocco. Otherwise, research under the project would be project specific
and the program would be carried out by INRA.
2.16     Agricultural Extension.  Agricultural extension in Morocco is
organized through 225 agriculture centers. Much of the effort of extension
agents is directed to distributing inputs to farmers, collecting
statistics, and enforcing regulations; they have not been very successful
in diffusing new technology for this reason, and also because of Ci) their
frequent lack of practical farming experience; (ii) a lack of communication
skills due largely to deficient training; (iii) weak research-extension
linkages and technical back-up; (iv) organizational weaknesses, including
imprecise work programs and lack of supervision; and (v) shortages of
vehicles, equipment, and recurrent budgets, alongside low salaries and poor
incentives. The result is a cadre of agents who are ineffective and lack
respect from their clients, who lack substantial responsibility and are not
given encouragement; morale is generally low. A reform began in July 1980
with the establishment of a Directorate of Extension and definition of a
program which would aim (i) to establish homogeneous extension regions with
locally adapted extension objectives and messages; (ii) to integrate



research, extension and training; and (iii) to increase the accountability
of extension agents and establish proper incentives. Studies and plan
preparation for an Extension Master Plan are scheduled to start in
September 1982 with Bank assistance. By the end of 1983 both Research and
Extension Master Plans should be ready, and should result in a Bank-assited
national research and extension project following the definition of new
policies. The project would contribute to the national planning process by
developing a cost-effective approach specific to rainfed areas that could
be used as a model elsewhere in the country.
E.  Bank Involvement in the Agriculture Sector
2.17     Bank group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to
date 16 projects have been undertaken and supported by US$561.5 million
Bank/IDA funds (US$24.0 million in IDA credits). They include five
irrigation projects: Sidi Slimane (FY65, completed), Sebou I (FY70,
completed), Souss Ground Water (FY75, completed), Doukkala I (FY76,
completed), and Doukkala II (FY77). There also have been four agricultural
credit projects (FY66, FY73, FY77, all completed, and FY79 ongoing), an
agro-industries and flood control project (Sebou II, FY74), four rainfed
agricultural development projects (Meknes FY75, Fes-Karia-Tissa FY78,
Loukkos FY80, and the Middle Atlas FY82); one export-oriented project, the
Vegetable Production and Marketing project (FY79), and one Forestry Project
(FY82).
2.18     Performance of Bank-financed projects has generally been
satisfactory. Performance in irrigation projects has been good once
initial problems of land distribution, and organizational delays in
construction and procurement of irrigation equipment have been overcome.
Inadequate cost recovery is the major issue. The implementation of a
recently-decreed increase in irrigation water charges by about 100% will
contribute to the solution of the cost recovery issue (see also para
7.06). The project performance audit report for the Sebou I project was
submitted on June 213 1982. The report stresses the project's success in
institution building and in providing infrastructure to achieve increases
in the production of irrigated crops, and the importance of their
production. It also highlights the importance of succesful extension and
timely allocation of funds to O&M, and the collection of water charges.
Completion of land reform remains, and is necessary if the full economic
and financial potential of the investment is to be realized. The project
completion report for the Doukkala I Irrigation project was submitted on
June 4, 1982.  The project was successfully completed with crop production
and cropping intensity exceeding appraisal targets and a higher rate of
return than expected. The project included a land consolidation and
extension program which has eliminated land fragmentation and has
facilitated the introduction of an improved cropping system. Performance
of the four agricultural credit projects has been good. OED reports for
three of them are 4vailable (Report 2543, June 15, 1979, Report 3248,
December 23, 1980)41- These reports stress the contribution made by the
/1 The First Agricultural Credit Project was reviewed in OED's Report on
Agricultural credit Programs, Background Paper No. 4.



- 7 -
loans to agricultural development, their success in establishing an
efficient credit institution and the successful expansion of credit to
small farmers. They also underline the importance of agricultural price
policy, extension and input distribution for improved economic and
financial performance of the credit loans. These issues are being
addressed through Bank sector work. The Fourth Agricultural credit Project
has recently run into liquidity problems because of the 1980-1981 drought
which resulted in rescheduling of farmers' debts. Adequate measures to
deal with these temporary problems have been taken. A fifth project to
provide a line of credit to CNCA is currently under preparation and is
scheduled to be appraised in early 1983. In the rainfed subector, the
first project (Meknes, FY75) experienced considerable implementation delays
due to the complicated and time-consumming land redistribution problems,
poor preparation of project components, over-optimistic assessment of
implementation targets, and inexperience in the organization and management
of rural development projects. The Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project
(FY78) was designed to minimize organization and management problems
encountered with Meknes and is performing well, and the implementation of
both productive and social components is generally satisfactory. The
Loukkos project is progressing satisfactorily and the Middle Atlas and
Forestry Project have made a good start.
2.19     Lessons learned from these projects, both technical and
institutional, have been taken into account in designing the proposed
project. Start-up delays, experienced by most projects in Morocco, would
be minimized by (i) the close prior involvement of the Moroccan authorities
in Project preparation; (ii) early nomination of key personnel; (iii)
availability by negotiations of first year designs and work plans, and the
prompt allocation of financial resources to the start-up year. Project
management problems would be avoided by (i) the dovetailing of project
management structures into the existing structure of support services; (ii)
the involvment of the local authorities from the design and preparation
phase; and (iii) the establishment of national and provincial-level
coordinating committees, which have proven extremely useful in the
implementation of Bank-supported rainfed projects.
III. The Project Area
A. Physical Features
Location and Land Resources
3.01     The project area (MAP IBRD 16474) covers some 328,000 ha or 41% of
Khemisset province; 48% consists of forest land (mainly State-owned) and
41% of agricultural land. The natural forest is mainly cork and holm oak,
chgne zene and thuya. A considerable part is degraded or open with bush
type vegetation. Some 4,000 ha of the forest consist of plantations,
mainly pine and eucalyptus. The forest is also an important source of
livestock grazing. The agricultural land is mainly limited to rainfed crop
production, as water resources are scarce. Some 800 ha in the project area
are irrigated, all in small perimeters.



- 8 -
3.02     T grahy  Climate and Soils.  The project area lies between 350
and 1,350 m above sea level, and can be divided into two distinct areas: a
relatively dry area with elevations between 250 and 700 m, on the west and
center of the project zone, and a more humid area to the east, with
elevations varying from 500 to 1,200 m. The lower and drier areas are
characterized by undulating hills; annual rainfall ranges between 300 to
550 mm. The higher area is cut by steep ravines, with rainfall ranging
from 700 to 950 mm. The project area has several plateaux. The lowest are
about 550 m above sea level situated in the west. The most important high
plateau is at Oulmes (1,000 m) in the east. Most of the zone is drained by
the Bou Regreg river (a major source of drinking water for Rabat) while the
extreme eastern part drains into the Oued Beht, which irrigates part of the
1%harb plain. The dry season lasts from May through October with high
average temperatures of up to 40% during summer.  Early morning frost and
occasional snow occurs in the eastern and higher part of the project area,
limiting the length of the vegetative period and prohibiting irrigated
cropS i.n the winter.  The main soil types are the brown forest soils
derived from schists and quartzites, with some pockets of heavy clays
(tirs) found in the central and western parts. In summary, the project
area is erosion-prone with soils of medium to good agricultural potential.
B. Socio-Economic Features
3.03     Population.  About 118,000 people, 27% of the population of
Khemisset Province, live in the seven rural communes in the project area.
PoDl.,iation density is lowest in the high elevation areas in the east (17
per k'2J a8d highest in the central plain area (49 per km2).  The
annual population growth of 2.2% is lower than the national rate of 2.9%;
this is due to out migration to urban areas. About 87% of the population
is engaged in agriculture. Apart from working on their own farm, many
small farmers work as laborers on the large farm holdings.   Under-
employment is still a common factor in the project area, however. The
average farm family size is about 5.5; there are considerably fewer farm
holdings than households indicating that often more than one family is
dependent on a single enterprise.
3,04,    Land Tenure.  Land tenure within the project is shown below:
ha
Pi-iv.ate land                         115,900    35.0 (incl 800 ha irr.)
CollecJti-v  land                       11,400      3.5
Forest land                            158,000    48.0
Agricultural state land and coops        7,900      2.5
Uincultivated                           35,200    11.0
Total                             328,400   100.0
Most farms in the project area are privately owned.  Of the small amount of
callecztive land half is for crop cultivation and half is rangeland.  State
Forest land is well delimited and the two main tribes in the project area



- 9 -
have the usufruct of the grassland and dead wood for domestic purposes.
Other State agricultural land is used for seed production, or general field
and tree crop production. Most of the privately owned land is not
registered; most holdings are small with heavy fragmentation of parcels.
The present law discourages further subdivision of farms among heirs since
a tax equal to 30% of the value of the land to be divided has to be paid to
Government if subdivision occurs. The proposed cadastral survey (para
4.29) would form the future basis for land consolidation.
3.05     Land Use.  The proposed project can be divided into three distinct
zones (zone 1 in the north and center, Rommani and Maaziz); (zone 2 in the
east, Oulmes); (zone 3 in the south, Ezzhiliga). They have marked
agricultural differences:
Rainfed Land Use                             Arable Land
Total Area  Forest  Uncultivated Cultivated    Cereals    Legumes    Fallow
Zone 1      52          42          11           47           52           22       24
Zone 2      32          71           5           24           46            2       29
Zone 3      16          31          22           47           58            1       40
3.06     Over half of the agricultural land is used for cereals, with grain
legumes growing mainly in the northern and central part of the project area
(zone 1). Most forage including barley is produced in the eastern part
(zone 2). Irrigated land accounts for only about 800 ha, or less than 1/2%
of the cultivated land, consisting of vegetables in the low lying areas and
fruit crops on the plateau of Oulmes. Dryland plantations with olives and
other treecrops amount to about 1% of the agricultural land. Fallow land
and forest areas are to a large extent used for livestock grazing.
3.07     In the forest area of about 150,000 ha, cork and holm oak (46%)
are the most valuable species. Thuya (Tetraclinis articulata), mainly used
for fire wood and building poles, makes up 18% of the forest area. Forest
plantation development has so far been slow, and to date only 3,700 ha have
been planted with fast growing species, mainly pines (Pinus halepensis, P.
canariensis, P. pinaster) and eucalyptus (E. camaldulensis.). The main
land-use objectives for the forest areas are to restore and maintain forest
cover for the protection of soils and water supplies, and to produce cork
and wood; these activities would be associated with livestock grazing
whenever compatible.
Farmsize and Systems
3.08     There are 11,400 farmholdings in the project area.  More than 36%
are small subsistence holdings of less than 4 ha (and occupying about 5% of
the private and collective agricultural land); a large proportion of these
are too small to provide an adequate family income, with farm families to a
large extent dependent on income derived from farm labor on larger farms
and from their livestock. Sixty-two percent of farms are small to
medium-sized semi-commercial holdings (5-30 ha), occupying about 70% of the



- 10 -
land, whereas 2% are large commercial farms occupying 25% of the land. The
traditional farming system is based on a cereal-fallow rotation, using
little improved seed, inadequate amounts of fertilizer and generally poor
soil preparation. During the last decade mechanical soil preparation has
become common. Animal traction continues to be used for certain farm
operations or on sloping land by most small and medium farmers. Mixed
livestock farming (sheep, goats and cattle) prevails throughout the project
area, with the smaller-sized farms raising more animals per ha of arable
land. Livestock depends for 2/3 of its feed on fallow and stubble grazing
on the farm, with some use of straw, and for 1/3 on forest range grazing,
with the smaller farm units relying more heavily on the range than the
larger farms. On-farm fodder production has generally been neglected.
Many parts of the forest in the project area are under severe grazing
pressure, which is degrading the forest. This has been particularly acute
during the past two years of low rainfall.
Agricultural Production
3.09     The bulk of the agricultural production is derived from rainfed
annual crops. Average cereal yields do not exceed 1 ton per ha, whereas
grain legumes mostly yield less than 0.8 ton/ha. The advanced farmer in
the area, however, gets double or triple these yields. A considerable
potential for increasing yields exists, particularly by making available
and accessible improved farm supplies and credit, and improved farm
technology.
3.10     The project's livestock resources consist of 300,000 sheep, 80,000
goats and 50,000 cattle. The area's most important production is its meat,
followed by milk and wool. Productivity is low due to the poor genetic
potential of the local breeds, insufficient nutrition, poor reproductive
management and insufficient health control, particularly of parasites.
Presently fodder production in the project area covers about 90% of total
requirements. Improved farm technology and range management techniques
would lead to a substantial increase in fodder production.
3.11     The-existing natural forests are mainly in mountainous terrain,
affected by grazing and cutting, and containing valuable supplies of cork,
fuelwood and poles, and less valuable supplies of sawlogs. The mean annual
increment of mixed oak forests (poles, fuel and timber combined) is
estimated at less than 1 m3/ha/year, with average standing volumes
usually less than 50 m3/ha. There is some scope for increasing volume,
value and quality by silvicultural techniques, such as selective thinning,
provided that illegal cutting and animal browsing can be controlled.
Yields from cork harvests amounts to about 20 steres of cork per ha.
Volume production in the plantations is much higher, even with little
management, with mean annual growth rates for pines (mainly Pinus
halepensis) between 2.5 and 4 m3/ha and (for Eucalyptus camaldulensis)
3.5 to 5 ml/ha.  With improved management and planting stock these yields
could be considerably increased.



- 11 -
C. Agricultural Services
3.12     Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA).  At the
central level in Rabat MARA comprises 10 directorates reporting to the
Secretary General of Agriculture. The main six directorates involved in
the project would be: extension and agrarian reform, rural engineering,
land registration and topographic survey, crop production, forestry, and
livestock. The Bank has worked closely with these units, particularly with
the crop production directorate, which was responsible for preparation of
the project. The crop production directorate was chosen by MARA as the
lead directorate for the Oulmes-Rommani Project, coordinating policies and
budgetary matters at the central level (para 5.02). At the provincial
level the same directorates are represented and headed by the Provincial
Director of Agriculture (DPA). The DPA is not only responsible to the
Secretary General of MARA but also to the Governor of Khemisset Province
(para. 3.18) and is therefore the key agent for agricultural development in
the province and the project area. At the field level the services of four
key directorates (crop production, which also handles crop extension,
forestry, livestock and rural engineering) are also represented. Their
present low level of staff, and lack of infrastructure of these and other
key support services would be rectified under the project.
3.13     INRA (para 2.15) is represented in the project area by two
existing research stations. The one in Merchouch is very important
nationally for the selection and multiplication of cereals and grain
legumes. A small station in Oulmes has recently been opened, but lacks
infrastructure and equipment; it would be stengthened, and would assist the
project in the production of improved forage seed.
3.14     Training.  All formal agricultural, forestry and livestock
training needs for senior staff are met by the Agronomic and Veterinary
Institute Hassan II in Rabat, the National School of Agriculture in Meknes
and the National Forestry School in Sale. Formal training for mid-level
technical staff is adequately carried out in the Royal Schools of Livestock
(Kenitra) and Forestry (Sale), while the Agricultural School in Tiflet
(Khemisset province)-presently trains between 40-60 agricultural extension
workers per year. Problems are not foreseen in meeting the general
pre-service training needs for technical staff. However, senior staff are
mostly not specialized in key subjects of particular concern to the project
(range management, fodder production, farm management). The project would
therefore initiate measures to overcome these shortcomings (para 5.17).
The introduction of a new and demanding agricultural extension system,
requires also that the Agriculture School in Tiflet introduce a more
specific and practical pre-service course.
3.15     Inputs.  The state_owned fertilizer and seed companies (FERTIMA
and SONACOS) both have distribution centers in Khemisset, and SONACOS has a
Centre in Rommani. In the project area distribution of farm inputs is
mainly carried out through MARA's agriculture centers. Existing centers do
not cover all farming areas, some of which have a poor road network,
discouraging private wholesalers of fertilizers and pesticides from



- 12 -
traveling to the market centers. Farm machinery and other equipment are
mainly available from retailers in the main towns. Contract ploughing and
other mechanical farming operations are carried by private farmers and to a
small extent by the agriculture centers (para 6.17).
3.16     Credit.  The National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) is the main
supplier of seasonal and medium-term credit in the country.    CNCA
services the Project area with two regional banks (CRCA, in Rabat and
Khemisset) which lend to medium and large farmers whose net fiscal income
is above DH 3,000. Two local banks (CLCA, in Khemisset and Rommani)
provide seasonal and medium-term credit to farmers with a fiscal income of
less than DH 3,000. Although the Project area is mountainous, road
communications difficult, and credit outlets few and concentrated in its
northwest zone, a relatively large number of farmers currently have access
to agricultural credit;
Potential clients/a            Actual Clients/b          Percentage (%)
CRCA    CLCA       Total       CRCA    CLCA      Total    CRCA  CLCA  Total
Morocco      64,500 1,052,500 1,117,000    37,500  216,400 253,900    58.1  20.6  22.7
Khemisset
Province     3,800    32,300    36,100       2,300    6,800   9,100    60.5  21.1  25.2
Project Area  1,700      9,400    11,100      1,300    2,700   4,000    76.5  29.7  36.0
/a  Potential clients have fiscal income of more than DH 100.
/b 1980/81.
Because of the high proportion already receiving credit, the potential
increase in the number of CRCA's clients requesting seasonal credit is
therefore relatively small and can be handled by the existing physical and
human infrastructure. The potential for an increase in CLCA clients is
important.
3,17     Presently, loan eligibility and amount for CLCA clients are based on
a farmer's "fiscal income". Morocco's tax authorities annually determine each
Moroccan farmer's taxable income by applying potential revenue norms to the
number of hectares, livestock and fruit trees owned by the farmer. This
taxation system was introduced in 1963 to provide some production incentives
by linking taxes to potential and not actual revenues from farms. Farmers'
debt repayment capacity is then determined by CNCA as a multiple of their
annual fiscal income. However, fiscal income norms have not been updated and
no longer reflect farmers' real income. Providing adequate access and
financing to the area's small farmers will require both a change in lending
procedures and the extension of CNCA physical infrastructure. CNCA has
adopted farmers' fiscal income as the basis of its lending to small farmers to
provide an easy way to determine with limited staff and costs creditworthiness
and debt repayment capacity for a large number of small farmers. Farmers with
a fiscal income above a certain minimum are eligible to receive credit. Over
the years, CNCA has gradually updated its criteria. With a fiscal income
threshold for credit eligibility of DH 100 there were 9,400 CLCA potential



- 13 -
determine with limited staff and costs creditworthiness and debt repayment
capacity for a large number of small farmers. Farmers with a fiscal income
above a certain minimum are eligible to receive credit. Over the years, CNCA
has gradually updated its criteria. With a fiscal income threshold for credit
eligibility of DH 100 there were 9,400 CLCA potential clients in 1980. The
fiscal income threshold was further reduced to DH 50/year in 1981 which
fractionally increased the number of potential CLCA clients.fL Furthermore,
CLCA clients having legal title to their land are now financed, like CRCA
clients, on the basis of their actual needs. For the 1981/82 agricultural
season, the mnaximum annual debt repayment capacity of small farmers who do not
have legal title to their land (the majority) has been fixed at 150% of his
fiscal income for short-term loans and at 120% of his fiscal income for
medium-term annuities. Application of the fiscal income rule does not take
into account farmers' cropping pattern and financing requirements and sets
allowable credit at an insufficient level. Moreover, ceilings set by CNCA on
maximum debt repayment capacity have proven somewhat restrictive. Providing
adequate access and financing to the area's small farmers will require both a
change in lending procedures and the extension of CNCA physical
infrastructure. A new short-term lending procedure, successfully introduced
under Bank-financed Fes-Karia-Tissa project (Loan 1602-MOR) and aimed at
financing small farmers according to their actual crop production costs would
also be applied under this project.
3.18     The Minister of Interior (MOI) has an important role in the
agricultural development of the project area: (i) the provincial governor in
Khemisset, who represents MOI, has overall responsibility for development
activities in his province and is responsible for coordinating the operations
of the technical services; (ii) the governor reviews and approves the
decisions of the 7 local government authorities in the project area including
their budgets; (iii) MOI through the Directorate of Collectivities has the
trusteeship of the collective land. During project preparation a close
collaboration between MOI, the project's local government councils and MARA
was established. For successful implementation of the proposed forest range
development, MOI must play a key role.
D. Infrastructure and Social Services
3.19     General.  In the past, the project zone has not only received a low
level of government support for agricultural services, but also for economic
and social infrastructure. In the present 5-year plan Government has put a
high priority on the development of these services in the rural areas,
focusing development groups of services around active rural centers. The
purpose of this "chef lieux" policy is to help stem the tide of rural
out-migration. These rural centers are crucial to both economic and social
life, as they provide not only the main trading markets, but are also the
principal regular meeting place of the inhabitants of an area.
3.20     Roads.  The project area is served by 315 km of paved roads as well
as 530 km of agricultural dirt feeder roads and 550 km of forest tracks. Road
density of 2.5 m/ha is low and should be increased in the better agricultural
areas. The average density of forest tracks is about 3.4 m/ha, compared to an
/1 Fiscal income of DH 50 represents about 0.5 ha of rainfed land or 2 ewes.



- 14 -
acceptable track density of 5 m/ha. Maintenance of the 440 km of classified
project roads is the responsibility of the Roads Department and is generally
adequate. Maintenance of the 400 km of non-classified roads is the
responsibility of the local Government Councils and is generally inadequate.
Forest road maintenance is the responsibility of the Forest Services, and
forest roads are poorly maintained, which will be improved under the Project.
3.21     Water Supply and Power.  The National Water Board (ONEP) serves the
three large urban areas of Maaziz, Rommani and Tiddas, where some house
connections exist for water supply. Other systems run by the Government
Councils exist in 9 other villages. In the countryside the distribution
network for drinking water is inadequate as the population and their cattle
have only 340 watering points, or roughly I point per 320 people. Electric
power is provided by the National Electricity Board (ONE), and is available in
the main urban centers. The grid will be extended under the national rural
electrification program. However, this program will exclude a number of
important agricultural communities in the project zone.
3.22     Education and Health.  The project area has an estimated rate of
school attendance of 43% for the 7-11 age group, well below the national
average of 72%, which is only attained in the rural commune of Maaziz. The
main reasons for poor primary school attendance in the area are (i) the
shortage of classrooms, and (ii) the custom of using children as shepherds.
In order to attempt to reach the national goal of full primary enrollment of
the 7-year age cohort by 1995, an intensive school building program is
required, particularly in the remote areas. Public health facilities consist
of an 80-bed hospital in Rommani, 4 health centers, and 9 rural dispensaries.
To bring the project area up to Government minimal health care standards, one
dispensary needs to be replaced, and a small maternity annex built onto one
health centre.
E. Major Project Area Constraints and Conclusions
3.23     In spite of the agricultural potential of the project area,
development has been limited by a number of constraints. The physical
constraints relate mainly to the amount and distribution of rainfall, as the
moisture available to the growing plant is generally the most significant
single factor limiting yields in a semi-arid climate. In addition, the
mountainous topography of the zone in combination with injudicious land use
has contributed to poor water conservation and extensive soil loss. The
negative impact of the physical constraints could be avoided if farmers
applied improved and timely farm practices and became more conscious of the
value of introducing tillage techniques which increase moisture storage, and
of soil conservation measures.
3.24     A major social constraint is the unequal distribution of land and its
fragmentation, which leaves many farmers with unviable holdings and limited
scope for modernization. While a start can be made on the problem of
fragmentation through the cadastral survey (para 2.11) in the short term, only
marginal improvements to production can be expected on most small farms
through the projects' actions. The most productive and cost effective
interventions would be on the medium sized semi-commercial holdings, which
could thereby contribute more strongly to national marketed food production.



- 15 -
overgrazing and the degradation of forest resources. Rectification of this
would require better livestock grazing control and the production of more
forage both on the farm and on the range.
3.25     A major institutional constraint in the project area is the lack of
agricultural support services (e.g. extension, adaptive research and access to
farm inputs and credit) caused by a lack of financial and trained human
resources. Strengthening the present network is a prerequisite for rapid
development. Special attention is required to improve the extension services,
at present ineffective, yet crucial to future development.
3.26     The proposed development actions have sought to resolve these
constraints wherever possible. The packages proposed for crops, livestock and
forestry, whilst relatively simple due to the restrictions posed by the
physical environment, nevertheless require coordinated and efficient support
from the agricultural services for their realization.
IV. The Project
A. Project Objectives and Approach
4.01     The main objective of the project is to increase production and
productivity in the rainfed agricultural areas in order to improve Morocco's
self-sufficiency in staple foods (paras 2.06-2.07). The project aims to
improve the living standard of the predominantly rural population in the
project area by raisilig farm incomes (through increased agricultural and
livestock production) and by providing better social and agricultural
services. In addition, the project would increase roundwood production and
would take steps to conserve the productive environment by countering soil
erosion and forest degradation. The project would seek to improve the
integration between livestock and forest production in the forest State land
areas. Since increased agricultural employment would be provided and living
conditions would be improved, it is expected that out-migration would be
reduced.
4.02     The strategy proposed for reaching those objectives at the farm level
envisages the introduction of relatively simple improved crop production
techniques, and more intensive use of modern inputs, while altering the
landuse system (principally to reduce the proportion of land left fallow, and
to increase on-farm fodder production). Extension and rehabilitation of
irrigated perimeters would play a minor but important role in the project.
Livestock development would concentrate on animal health, genetic improvement,
and fodder production on the farm and the range. Forest production would be
increased by introducing better harvesting and management techniques for
natural forests and forest plantations. Soil protection and erosion control,
together with the introduction of an improved range management system, would
be integral parts in the improvement of the area's forest resources.
Successful project implementation would require continuous dialogue with the
population, which would be secured by fully involving the Governor, MOI and
the local government councils and by using other existing local coordination
committees (para 5.04).



- 16 -
B.  Descrietion of Project Components
4.03     The project would be implemented over a 5-year period and would
include;
(i) r ro                       e
(ii)    irrigation development;
(iii)   forest development, including soil conservation and forest range
management;
(iv)    economic and social infrastructure;
(v)    institutional and logistical development of the agricultural services;
(vi)    technical assistance to help with implementation; and
(vii)   a cadastral survey.
Rainfed Crop and Livestock Development
4.04     Crop Development.  The project would provide for improved crop
production on some 80,000 ha private rainfed land in conjunction with the
development of about 12,000 of forest range (para 4.16) and with livestock
activities (para 4.07). Increased crop yields would be obtained by applying
known and tested technological improvements including improved and timely soil
management and through the provision of inputs and credit, backed up by an
improved extension service, and applied research. Apart from increasing
cereal yields production of grain legumes would be expected to increase from
about 18,00 ha to 24,000 ha as a substitute more and more for fallow as would
on-farm fodder production which would be expected to increase from about 7,000
to 16,000 ha, supplementing fodder production on the range. Production of
vetchoats and pea barley would be increased, although other fodder crops such
as berseem, alfalfa, Medicago truncutula, Vicia sativa and maize would also be
gradually introduced. Silage conservation methods (600 ha) and the treatment
of straw with ammonia (1,200 ha) to improve its nutritive value would be
introduced on a modest scale. As a result of increased grain legume and
fodder production the amount of fallow is expected to be reduced by about 30%
in the project area by full development.
4.05     The project approach to the improvements of cultural techniques would
vary according to the physical characteristics and the economic resources of
the individual farmer. On land already tilled mechanically, the project would
seek to improve tillage (with a more complete and timely cycle of soil
preparation), and to increase the use and management of improved seeds,
fertilizers and pesticides. On land tilled by animal traction due to slopes,
excessive fragmentation or poverty, the project would improve the prefered
tillage method, by upgrading traction animals and introducing better tillage
equipment and would encourage greater and better use of modern inputs.



- 17 -
4.06     A small land improvement component has been included in the project.
Under this program about 2,000 ha of potential agricultural land would be
destoned at an average cost of about US$1,000/ha. These operations would be
conducted in a similar manner to those successfully applied in the Meknes
project. Land improvement would also take place in some 2,000 ha of areas
covered by unpalatable shrubs (doum and jujubier); credit is readily available
for this from CNCA.
4.07     Livestock Development.  The main objective of this component would be
to assist in overcoming low productivity in the existing herd. Improvement of
animal nutrition would be a priority, reflected in the emphasis on fodder
production described above. The project would also pay particular attention
to the genetic improvement of cattle, sheep and farm horses, and to herd
management and animal health. Well-established and tested genetic improvement
methods would be used and would require the construction and staffing of five
cattle breeding stations, (mainly to improve milk cows), two horse breeding
stations, and the purchase of 500 selected sheep for distribution to farmers
to upgrade their sheep herds. The animal health program would include eight
dips (three of which to be mobile) for external parasite control, and
additional drugs and equipment. Morocco's successful experience in
introducing and managing milk collection centers would be continued under the
project, which would finance two new centers and would increase collection
capacity in three existing centers (para 6.09). The project would also
provide credit for the purchase of feed concentrates, the building of sheep
and cattle folds, the purchase of improved rams, ewes and milk cows and the
purchase of forage harvesting, silage and hay making. Additional
infrastructure would be provided to the cattle breeding station in Oulmes,
which improves and multiplies the local Oulmbs cattle breed, and to a trial
pasture area to be managed on 500 ha of collective land at Telt.
Irrigation Development
4.08     The project would include:  (i) the development, rehabilitation, and
extension of eleven traditional irrigation perimeters by about 570 ha./Li
Water would be pumped from small rivers and springs, and would be distributed
by gravity through lined primary and secondary canals; (ii) equipment for two
ten-hectare irrigation demonstration farms in the most important project
irrigation areas (Tanoubert and Oulmes); and (iii) studies of groundwater
resources of the Tanoubert basin and Oulmes plateau, and the preparation of
detailed development proposals for future investments not financed under the
project. The traditional perimeters would produce vegetables and forage,
whereas an irrigation perimeter on the Oulmes Plateau would produce apples and
pears.
Forest Development and Sylvopastoral Improvement
4.09     The forestry component (see Annex 2) of the project would include (i)
production plantations: commercial timber plantations of about 5,000 ha of
pines and 3,000 ha of eucalyptus would be established for commercial and
industrial end-uses; (ii) protection plantations: 4,000 ha of plantations of
/1 See Annex VI of Project File



- 18 -
degraded forest to restore the forest cover, as part of the Government's
program of forest production; there would also be limited commercial timber
production; (iii) soil protection and erosion control measures in areas of
vulnerable or eroding soil, including small soil engineering works and
appropriate tree planting on about 4,000 ha State and private land; and (iv)
sylvopastoral operations increasing the quality and yields of timber, cork and
fodder in some 12,000 ha of indigeneous forest and bush land, by selective
thinning and pruning of trees and pasture improvement measures, combined with
livestock management and rotational grazing.
4.10     Most of the areas selected for plantations and sylvopastoral
improvement are indicated in the existing forestry management plans preparedl
by the Forestry Department. They are located on State forestry land. Aboul
10% of the land will be in areas with other designations or on State lands
without plans, especially in areas with easy access to markets (including town
and village feed markets, para 5.11).
4.11     The eucalyptus selected for planting in the production plantations
would be Eucalyptus camaldulensis and would be used for fuelwood, poles and
pulpwood. Plantations would be clear-felled after 10 years and the coppice
regrowth would be cut twice again at 10 year intervals. On limestone sites E.
gomphocephala would be planted. Pines selected would be mainly Pinus
halepensis and P. brutia on lower, drier or poorer sites, whereas the P.
canariensis and P. Pinaster would be used on higher, moister or more fertile
sites. Production would be mainly for sawlogs and poles. Pine plantations
would be clear-felled after 30 years. Most of the thinnings after 15 years
would be large enough for sale as poles. Average annual under bark (u.b.)
production for eucalyptus is estimated at 7 m3/ha u.b. and 5 m3/ha u.b.
for pines. These estimates are conservative and are based on experience and
measurements elsewhere in Morocco.
4.12     The protection plantations located in degraded State forest areas
would, when restored, protect soil and water catchment areas, and produce
limited quantities of wood. Species selected would be the same as for the
commercial plantations but yields would be much lower with 3 m3/ha u.b. for
eucalyptus and less than 2 m3/ha u.b. for pines. The establishment
technique would be designed to minimize costs, while giving particular
attention to soil stabilization.
4.13     The soil protection and erosion program.  It would involve a wide
range of techniques which could be adjusted during implementation including
the planting of fruit (olive, almond) trees on small terraces or banquettes;
establishment of bunds and semi-permanent uncultivated strips along contour
lines in sloping cultivated fields; and treatment of actively eroding gulleys,
culverts and ditches with transversal walls of stones, gabions and culvert
realignment.
4.14     Basic fire protection arrangements already exist in the project area,
but would be improved during the project. The regular grazing of livestock
and the normal practice of leaving unplanted breaks of 10-20 m around blocks
of 25-30 ha greatly reduces the fire danger in the plantations. In the



- 19 -
natural ftorests the thuya forests are vulnerable to fires and burn more easily
than the oak or mlxed forests. The project would therefore establish 50 km of
firebreaks in these areas, as well as 3 fire towers or observation posts.
4.15     Insect diseases in the project area have not been important, although
the eucalyptus plantations may get problems from the beetle Phoracantha
semipunctata. At present the recommended control measure is to cut and remove
all affected trees as soon as possible. To meet the increased demand for
seedlings in the project area an additional nursery would be established in
Harcha with a capacity of 3 million seedlings per year.
4.16     Sylvopastoral Improvement.  The project would introduce sylvopastoral
operations on the forest range, on areas which are identified in the existing
management plans and distributed in 5 separate blocks of about 2,400 ha each.
The sylvopastoral areas are partly in forests in which suitable techniques can
improve wood production (thinning, pruning), and fodder production; and partly
in open areas with little tree cover but which can produce fodder. The forest
range would be improved by (i) developing the natural herbaceous cover in
6,000 ha of existing cork oak forest and by thinning about 3,000 ha of holm
oak; (ii) improvement of 2,000 ha of natural grazing in open bush land areas
and the planting of about 1,000 ha of forage shrubs (Acacia, Atriplex,
MEdicg, Colutea and Cytissus).  Techniques for forest range would also
include reseeding with grasses and annual and perennial legumes, and
fertilization. Investments for fencing have also been included in the project
costs. It is expected that the quality and yields of timber and oak would
slightly improve through proposed thinnings and that the present low level of
fodder productivity of these ranges would be increased by two-fold. The
suitable technical interventions are already known as demonstrated on the
Adarouch ranch, the range research at Timahdite, the UNDP/FAO project (MOR
73/106, but their practice needs improvement. Most important would be the
control of stocking rates and the organization of the legitimate beneficiaries
into grazing associations. Because of the distinct social and economic
situations in each of the sylvopastoral zones, a study phase of about nine
months would be required prior to commencement of the development of each
zone. A start has already been made in Harcha, the first zone scheduled for
development (para 5.13).
Infrastructure
4.17     Like the on-going Fes-Karia-Tissa project (Loan 1602-MOR) this
project would include a number of infrastructural support and social
components. Some of these (market construction and improvement, rural roads,
dual purpose water points, and a flood protection barrier) have clear economic
linkages with the agricultural and livestock objectives of the project. Other
components (10 bed-maternity hospital and dispensary, drinking water, and
sewage systems) would have beneficial effects on the health, of the project
area's population, whilst others (street paving, electrification) would
improve the living environment of rural market towns. Details of the main
infrastructural components are given below and are all shown in the Project
File.



- 20 -
4.18     Market Development.  In order to upgrade the level of commercial
activities in the project area and facilitate the sale of surplus produce
resulting from the project, the project would provide for the
construction/extension of 14 markets; 3 of these would replace existing
facilites, 3 would be entirely new facilities and works for the remaining 8
would complement existing facilities.  A typical market consists of an
enclosure wall, a slaughterhouse, a tax office, 10 meat vendor stalls, a block
of 8 shops and storage spaces with a roof for grains and pulses. These weekly
markets would also play a key role in the project's extension system (para
5.05). Fees paid by merchants on entering the markets form a substantial
source of income for the local Government Councils.
Forest and Rural Roads
4.19     The present low density of forest tracks in the State forest areas
has resulted in difficulties in logging operations and consequently low bids
tendered by private logging contractors. On the basis of the existing
management plans, 150 km of new forest tracks would be constructed under the
project to improve access to the existing forests and proposed plantations
areas. A further 35 km of existing unmaintained and deteriorating tracks
would be rehabilitated. Both upgraded and new roads would have minimum design
standards compatible with satisfactory serviceability and would be based on
standard 4-m forest roads with drainage ditches and culverts as required. As
most roads will be built on stoney areas, it is estimated that only 20% of the
new tracks will need gravelling.  About 800 km of forest tracks would be
maintained (para. 5.16).
4.20     The project would also provide for the upgrading of 106 km of
existing non-classified dirt roads in the most isolated rural areas, to a
minimum standard of 4 m width on a 6 m platform.  The road between Oulmes and
Touiza, with a length of 18 km, would be built with a 8 m wide platform,
because of the greater importance of its traffic. This would permit further
upgrading to secondary standard by the Roads Department at a later date. The
program would include draining and retaining works and rectification of some
of the worst bends. No gravel pavement is foreseen since the roads are in
schist rock. Road construction costs are based on a December 1981 contract
for sirnilar mountain roads in the Middle Atlas project (Loan 2082-MOR) and
costs average US$34,000/km, except for the 18 km of the Oulmes-Touiza road
where a wider platform and requirements for rock excavation increase the
average cost/km to about US$68,000. About 400 km of non-classified rural
roads would be maintained (para. 5.16), at a rate of 130 km each year.
4.21     Water Supply.  The project would provide for the extension or new
construction of water supply systems equipped with public fountains in 10
population centers, and also for the construction of 61 water points in the
countryside to serve the needs of the dispersed population and their animals.
Of the 61 water points, 40 would consist of structures to capture existing
sources, 19 would be new wells and 2 would be boreholes equipped with hand
pumps. Each water point would be equipped with a drinking basin for cattle.
4.22     Education.  The proposed project would finance the Government's
primary school investment program for the project area until 1987-1988, as



- 21 -
defined by the national and regional education authorities on the basis of the
national school mapping exercise already determined to be acceptable to the
Bank. This program would include the construction of 7 schools (53
classrooms) in permanent materials in the more heavily populated small
villages near Maaziz, Oulmbs, Rommani and Ezzhiligha. Construction would
include ancillary works necessary for establishment of a new school (e.g.,
site preparation, office, canteen, principals' house, sanitation). Teachers'
houses would not be constructed, but would be rented using the recurrent
budget. In addition, 101 prefabricated classrooms would be erected in the
more remote rural areas; for every three of these on average, a prefabricated
teachers' house would be built, as renting is not feasible outside villages.
In addition, the program would include furniture and equipment for all 154
classrooms. A sufficient number of teachers are available to staff the
schools at normal teacher pupil ratios. The project component would
contribute to the Bank's education sector policy in Morocco, which includes
support for more equitably distributed and effective rural education through
the construction of primary schools in ths most deprived rural areas, and the
provision of basic educational materials L21.
4.23     Status of Engineering.  Engineering studies for the traditional
irrigation perimeters are at the level of prefeasibility studies. Quantities
have been roughly surveyed. The project would provide for the final design
and preparation of tender documents to be carried out by local consultants.
For a number of social and economic project components standard designs are
ready. These include the markets, street paving, health buildings, school
construction, water supplies for Oulmes and Ezzhiliga, and the flood
protection barrier at Maaziz. For the remaining water systems and sewers,
cost estimates were based on quantity take-offs derived from studies done at
the feasibility stage; and for power supply, from data obtained from the
National Power Authority. Since the 18 km stretch of road between Oulmes and
Touiza would be constructed during the first project year, Government
submitted to the Bank at negotiations detailed studies and the final design
for this road. In addition, detailed studies for the first year forest track
program was also submitted at negotiations (para. 4.19).
Institutional and Logistic Support
4.24     To back up the project's crop development, livestock, forestry and
rural engineering program, Government agricultural support services would be
reinforced. The project would provide incremental staff, vehicles, offices,
housing and other administrative support for four key directorates (para.
3.12) in Khemisset and in the project area. Project actions would furthermore
include (i) a reform of the extension system and a selective program of
intensification including training of a variety of types of extension staff;
(ii) the implementation of a research program; and (iii) improved input supply
and credit systems.
/1 See: SAR of Fifth Education Project for Morocco, Report No. 3693-MOR,
pages 6 and 8.



- 22 -
4.25     Extension Service.  The project's extension component would include
(i) the upgrading of two agricultural sub-centers to full centers,
reinforcement of the five other centers and sub-centers, and the creation of
five village posts (see Map IBRD 16473); (ii) the employment of 29 new
extension agents and eight senior extensionists to re-staff the service, with
support for them (administrative staff, including four directors for the
agriculture centers, vehicles, equipment, housing); (iii) backstopping from
Khemisset for the field staff, including an audio-visual unit with two expert
technicians, vehicles and equipment; a soil analysis unit; and six subject
matter specialists; and (iv) creation of a special one-year pre-service
training course for extension agents, and pre- and in-service training for all
operations staff.
4.26      Research.  Since the National Research Master Plan is not yet ready
(para 2.15), the project includes only a modest research component, consisting
primarily of applied on-farm and forest-range trials including farming system.
trials and demonstrations, mainly relating to forage production and specific
livestock issues. In addition, formal research in controlled conditions on
the existing Oulmes and Ezzhiliga research station in the project area would
also be carried out. These trials would mainly concern the varietal
development of annual and tree crops, particularly for higher elevations. The
project would include the costs of supplemental infrastructure and equipment
to make the existing Oulmes research station and the Ezzhiliga sub-station
fully operational. The research would be carried out by INRA, working closely
with the project's extension services, particularly through research
assistants who would operate with the extension staff (para 5.06). With
respect to forestry, a limited research program would be integrated with the
on-going research of the National Forestry Research Center in Rabat and would
concentrate on (i) the improvement of nursery techniques, including production
of improved seeds through identification of elite trees and establishment of
seed orchards; (ii) plantation establishment trials; and (iii) fertilization
trials.
4.27      Input Supply and Credit.  The organization of input supplies and the
provision of credit would be improved under the project (para 5.18). Small
farmers would be financed according to their actual seasonal production
requirements, based on annually adapted costs of cultivation, their cropping
plan, and their estimated repayment capacity. Over the project period,
incremental short-term credit requirements would amount to about DH 25.0
million including contingencies and by full project development (year 12) to
DH 75.0 million. The number of beneficiaries of CLCA loans would increase
from about 2,700 in 1980-1981 to more than 4,500 at full Project development.
The average CLCA short-term loan per farm would increase from DH 1,000 in
1980/81 to DH 2,600 (1982 prices) during the same period. The number of CRCA
clients is projected to increase from 1,300 in 1980-1981 to about 1,500 at
full project development. Medium and long-term loans for on-farm investments
would amount to DH 27.0 million over the project period and more than by 36.5
million by full development, which corresponds to total estimated on-farm
investment costs of DH 39.0 million and DH 52.0 million respectively.  These
investments would include land improvement, agricultural machinery, improved
livestock and animal shelters.



- 23 -
Technical Assistance
4.28     The project would provide a total of 26 man-months of short-term
technical assistance in the field of cork oak management and harvesting (4
months) (para. 4.09), monitoring and evaluation (2 months) (paras. 5.19-5.20),
and applied research, agriculture and extension (20 months) (paras 5.05,
5.14). Final allocation of these consultancies would be determined on the
basis of specific needs arising during implementation. In addition, two
man-years of long-term consultancies would be required to assist in the
initial implementation of the forest range component (paras. 5.12-5.13). At
negotiations assurances were obtained that MARA would be responsible for
preparing detailed terms of reference, and that all consultants would be
employed on terms and conditions and with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.39).
Cadastral Survey
4.29     The major effort of the Topographical Surveys Directorate of MARA in
the past was directed to recording land ownership in the large irrigation
perimeters, as land consolidation was a prerequisite for their development.
With the shift in the Government's emphasis towards rainfed agriculture, a
corresponding shift in cadastral activities is taking place. The project
would include a 320,000 ha tranche of the national cadastral survey, which
would cover the project area. Project financing would include aerial
photography, mapping and comprehensive ground surveys. The cadastral survey
would in the short run facilitate the delivery of property titles, and thus
facilitate the provision of credit, and in the long run would permit land
consolidation.
C. Project Start-Up Activities
4.30     Several project activities would be initiated by the DPA prior to
loan signature: groundwater studies (the 9 first test drilling results were
already submitted to the Bank at negotiations, para. 4.08), the 18 km road
study and first year forest road studies (para 4.23), and the socio-economic
study of Harcha (para 4.16), aerial photography for the cadastral survey, and
certain project actions which require immediate attention such as the
infrastructure and organization requirements for the first training course at
Tiflet (para 5.17), and detailing the project's first year research
operations. Provision has been made for up to US$1.0 million of retroactive
financing for these activities, which would take place betwen June 1982, and
the date of the Loan. The Government has allocated funds for the project for
1982 and this permits preparation to continue and preliminary tasks to be
commenced. Both the Project Manager and the deputy Project Manager are
already in place and have been fully involved in project preparation.
D. Project Cost Estimates
4.31     Total estimated project costs during the proposed five-year
investment period are estimated at DH 577.3 million (US$l05.0 million) of
which DH 208.9 million (US$38.0 million), or 36% would be foreign exchange.
Cost estimates include an estimated DH 131.9 million of taxes and duties or
23% of total project costs. Base costs estimates are based on actual prices



- 24 -
obtained during appraisal, updated to end of 1982-prices. Physical
contingencies included in the project cost estimates are 15% for civil works
and 10% for equipment and operating costs. The allowance for expected price
increases has been calculated for both local and foreign base costs plus
physical contingencies. Estimated price increases for local costs are 11% for
1983 and 9% for 1984, and 8% thereafter and for foreign costs 8% in 1983, 7.5%
1984, 7% 1985 and 6% thereafter. Total contingencies would amount to DH 172.6
million (US$31.4 million), or 30% of total costs, and 43% of baseline costs.
The average costs of consultants services are estimated at US$10,000 per
man-month (including travel and subsistence).  Details of project costs are
presented in Annex I Table 1 and summarized below:
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Components                 Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Excharne
-----(DH Million)----    ----(US$ Million)----          W)
Agricultural Development  27.7        9.5    37.2       5.0      1.7      6.7     25
Livestock Production
& Range Management        25.5    15.0    40.5        4.7      2.7     7.4      37
Irrigation Infrastructure  8.3        3.5    11.8       1.5      0.6     2.1      29
On-Farm Investments         28.2    11.1    39.3        5.1      2.0      7.1     28
Incremental Inputs          33.9    22.6    56.5        6.2      4.1    10.3      40
Forest Development          49.0    33.6    82.6        8.9      6.1    15.0      41
Research                    10.6      4.3    14.9       1.9      0.8      2.7     30
Cadastral Survey            10.7      6.6    17.3       2.0      1.2     3.2      38
Rural Roads                 16.4    14.7    31.1        3.0      2.7      5.7     47
Social Infrastructure       24.2    14.1    38.3        4.4      2.6      7.0     37
School & Health Buildings 14.4        9.7    24.1       2.6      1.8     4.4      40
Studies, Training
& Technical Assistance   5.0       6.1    11.1        0.9      1.1     2.0      55
Total Base Costs           253.9   150.8   404.7       46.2    27.4    73.6       37
Physical Contingencies    25.8    17.0    42.8          4.7      3.1      7.8     40
Price Contingencies         88.7    41.1   129.8       16.1      7.5    23.6      32
Total Project Cost   368.4   208.9   577.3         67.0    38.0   105.0       36
Front-end Fee on Bank
Loan /a                      -      2.5     2.5         -      0.5     0.5    100
Total Financing
Required                 368.4   211.4   579.8       67.0    38.5   105.5       36
/a  Bank Loan assumed as US$29.5 million.



- 25 -
E. Financing
4.32     Net of the costs of on-farm investments and incremental inputs (which
would be financed mainly by credit from CNCA), total project cost would be
approximately DH 430.0 million, 37% of which would be in foreign exchange.
Due to Morocco's difficult financial situation, and the relatively small
quantity of foreign exchange involved, the proposed Bank loan to the
Government of Morocco would cover 50% of the project costs net of taxes, and
excluding the aforementioned on-farm requirements. The Bank loan would
therefore amount to US$30.O million, and would include a Bank front-end fee of
about US$500,0OO, equivalent of 1-1/2 percent of the amount of the Loan. The
following table shows financing sources for project costs during the five-year
implementation period:
Financing Sources
Project Costs               IBRD    CNCA    Beneficiaries    Government    Total
-------------------(US  Million)--------------------
Agriculture, Research
Cadastral Survey          6.5      -              -             14.4        20.9
Livestock & Range
Management                4.5      -              -              6.5        11.0
Forestry                     8.6     -              -             13.1        21.7
Economic Infrastructure    3.7       -              -              3.9         7.6
Social Infrastructure        6.2     -              -             10.7        16.9
On-Farm Investments
and Inputs                -       13.5           10.2            3.2        26.9
Total Project Costs   29.5    13.5             10.2           51.8       105.0
Front-end Fee on
Bank Loan             0.5        -              -              -         0.5
Total Financing
Required             30.0    13.5            10.2           51.8       105.5
4.33     The Bank loan would be made to the Government for a term of 17 years,
including a 4-year grace period, at the interest rate prevailing at the time
of Board presentation. Retroactive financing for an amount not exceeding
US$l.0 million would be authorized for project start-up activities carried out
from June 1982.



- 26 -
F. Disbursements
4.34     The proposed Bank loan of US$30.0 million would be disbursed over six
and half years (1983-89), and would finance;
Category                        Amount                 Disbursement
(US$ Million)(x
I.  Civil works               20.7         40% of total expenditures
II.  Vehicles & Equipment        2.9        100% of foreign expenditures
and 65% of local expenditures
III.  Studies, Consultants'       2.8        100% of foreign expenditures
Services, Training and                and 60% of local expenditures
Cadastral Survey
IV.  Unallocated                 3.1
V.  Front-End Fee               0.5
30.0
4.35     Disbursements for project items would be made after receipt of
full documentation, except for works under force account (about US$5.0
million) for which disbursements would be made against certified statements
of expenditures. Supporting documentation would be retained by MARA and
held available for inspection by the Bank. An estimated schedule of
disbursements is summarized below and detailed in Annex 1, Table 2.
Fiscal Year (US$ Million)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Annual          1.6     2.5      4.9     5.8      9.3     4.9      1.0
Cumulative      1.6     4.1      9.0    14.8    24.1    29.0    30.0
The historical country-wide disbursement profile for Morocco indicates a
disbursement period of 8 years. However, the design of the project has
taken into account the primary factors that have caused delays in
disbursement on previous projects (para. 4.30). Both the project manager
and deputy are already in place and Government has released funds to
commence project operations. Most of the tender documents affecting
first-year project operations have been completed and certain studies
affecting road and irrigation development will have to be completed before
negotiations. In view of the above, the period of disbursement is expected
to be completed in 6-1/2 years, i.e., about one year after the end of the
investment period.



- 27 -
G. Procurement
4.36     Except in the case of school construction (para 5.01), procurement
would be carried out by the Provincial Agricultural Directorate of
Khemisset which would be responsible for the project. The project would be
phased over five and a half years, resulting in the division of the
procurement into a large number of contracts of different sizes. Under
present Moroccan procedures, bid evaluation and final contract award would
be subject to final approval by the regional Commitment and Expense
Controllers of Khemisset and would be referred to the Minister of
Agriculture through his central directorates in the following cases: (i)
if the cost of works exceeds DH 500,000; (ii) if the cost of studies
exceeds DH 10,000; or (iii) if contracts are negotiated.
4.37     International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  Contracts for
construction of forest and rural roads exceeding US$2.0 million (valued at
a total of US$8.5 million), as well as contracts for the purchase of
equipment and vehicles exceeding US$200,000 (valued at a total of US$4.8),
would be awarded by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. Domestically
manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference or the applicable
import duty, whichever is lower, when comparing bids with those of foreign
manufacturers. Equipment and vehicle contracts would be bulked to the
extent feasible for efficient procurement. When bulking is not feasible,
equipment and vehicle contracts which do not exceed the equivalent of
US$200,000 each could be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
(LCB) or according to local procedures acceptable to the Bank. In
aggregate these contracts would not exceed US$900,000. Contracts for
aerial photography and mapping valued at US$2.7 million would be awarded by
ICB in the case of contracts exceeding US$300,000; otherwise procurement
would be by LCB, not to exceed US$500,000 in the aggregate.
4.38     Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).  Project civil works concerning
forest plantations, destoning operations, social infrastructure (other than
roads), offices, houses, classrooms and other buildings, breeding stations,
and milk collection centers would be executed in small contracts over a
5-year period and would be scattered all over the project area. All these
works, valued at about US$40 million, would not be of interest to foreign
contractors and would be awarded on the basis of LCB, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for forest and rural roads
less than US$2.0 million, and for irrigation works (US$2.8 million) would
also be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures. Sufficient construction
firms both local and foreign are established in Morocco to assure
competitive prices under LCB. The total amount of contracts to be awarded
under LCB is expected to equal about US$50.0 million. Small project works
having a value of less than US$100,000 equivalent which might not attract
even local enterprises would be undertaken on force account arrangements
depending on local conditions and the type of work involved. The costs of
these works would not exceed US$5.0 million.
4.39     Consultant Services.  Contracts for 50 man-months of technical
assistance by consultants with a total value of US$0.6 million would be
awarded in accordance to Bank guidelines for the use of consultants issued
in August 1981.



- 28 -
4.40     Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
over US$300,000, and bidding packages for goods and services over
US$2O0,0O0 including the first two contracts relating to either the various
social infrastructural components, plantations, irrigation and road
development, vehicles or equipment, would be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documentation. This would result in a coverage of
about 80% of the total estimated value of works and goods contracts. The
balance of the contracts would be subject to random post-review by the Bank
after contract award.
H. Accounts, Audit and Reports
Accounts and Audit
4.41     The existing system of financial control and audit of governmental
bodies is satisfactory. Although ministries and other public institutions
have a substantial degree of autonomy in the physical implementation of
their program, the Ministry of Finance tightly controls their financial
commitments, transactions and accounts. Two officials of the Ministry of
Finance are responsible for overseeing, on a day-to-day basis, the
financial operations undertaken by a particular governmental department. A
Financial Controller reviews all proposed contracts and must countersign
them before they take effect. A Treasury Officer keeps records of all
financial transactions after checking them against predetermined programs
and financial allocations, and approves corresponding disbursements. The
Financial Controller and Treasury Officer prepare monthly reports to be
transmitted to the Central Services of the Ministry of Finance. They also
prepare year-end statements which are transmitted, after review and
approval, through the Minister of Finance to the "Cour des Comptes".  All
government bodies are subjected to random inspections by the Service of
General Inspection of the Ministry of Finance, in particular with respect
to force account operations. Control of expenditures and of their
conformity to predetermined programs is thereby adequate. However,
physical checks on actual implementation of works and of the supply of
goods or services is seldom undertaken, either by the Inspection Services
of the technical Ministry concerned or by the services of the Ministry of
Finance.
4.42     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) each Government
department participating in the Project would have its annual budgetary
resources necessary to carry out planned Project actions specifically
individualized in the relevant annual "Lois de Finances" and "Programmes
d'Emploi"; (ii) that each government department participating in the
project would maintain separate accounts for the project works; (iii) that
these accounts, as established and certified by the Regional Financial
Controller and Treasury Officer, would be audited by the Ministry of
Finance; and (iv) that an overall audit report for the Project would be
prepared by the Ministry of Finance and would be submitted to the Bank,
along with the year-end certified summary accounts of all participating
Government departments, within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year.
The audit report will include a specific opinion on whether funds disbursed
by the Bank on the basis of statements of expenditures have been used for
the purpose for which they were provided.



- 29 -
I. Environmental Impact
4.43     The project will have a beneficial effect on the environment.  The
areas selected for the main plantation and sylvopastoral development are
mostly in relatively degraded and open areas subject to uncontrolled
grazing and erosion. Although they are much less effective than the well
developed closed natural forests as a protection for the physical
environment, or as a habitat for flora and fauna, these plantations and
sylvopastoral improvements will greatly assist the conservation of soil and
water supplies and will help reduce overcutting and environmental
degradation elsewhere. No special provisions have been made for management
of wildlife, for hunting, or for natural reserves and sanctuaries for the
protection of flora and fauna. However, the preparation of reports on all
unmanaged state forests in the project area (para. 4.10) will identify
areas which are important for the protection of flora and fauna.
V. Project Implementation
A. Coordination and Management of the Project
5.01     The project would be implemented by the existing Agricultural
Services in Khemisset, headed by the Director of Provincial Agricultural
Directorate (DPA) and who would also be the Project Manager. The DPA would
be assisted in project execution by a Project Management Unit (PMU),
comprising a deputy project manager and the project's six subject matter
specialists (SMS) as described in paras. 5.06, 5.08/09. The PMU would also
receive technical support from the DPA's service chiefs concerned with
project execution. Apart from ensuring day-to-day project management the
PMU would be charged with (i) preparation of the annual work plan,
synthesizing the contributions of the directors of the agriculture centers
(para 5.04); (ii) monitoring and evaluation (paras 5.19-5.20); (iii)
contract adminstration and supervision of project works and assisting the
local services in their execution (paras. 5.06-5.09). During negotiations
the Bank was informed that the PMU was established with functions and
authority acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the PMU would be fully staffed by September 30, 1983, and with local
extension staff as and when required. The education component would be
implemented by the provincial delegation of the Ministry of Education,
under the supervision of the Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of
Education, which implements Bank education projects. The health component
would be implemented by the provincial delegation of the Ministry of Health
in Khemisset.
5.02     At the National level, MARA would have overall responsibility for
project execution. Within MARA, the responsibility for the project would
be taken by the Directorate of Crop Production. The Secretary General of
MARA would preside over the National Project Coordinating Committee (NPCC)
of the type successfully established for rainfed projects in Morocco (para.
2.19). Members of this committee would include the project manager and
representatives from the directorates and other entities of MARA involved
in the project (Directorates of Livestock, Forestry, and Rural Engineering,
Extension; INRA; SONACOS). It would also include representatives from
other ministries and bodies involved (Directorate of Rural Affairs of MOI;



- 30 -
Ministry of Public Works; Ministry of Finance; CNCA; Ministry of
Education). The NPCC would meet at least once every six months, and would
be responsible for (i) the resolution of issues and assurance of
cooperation between concerned ministries; (ii) the definition of broad
outlines for each years' project actions, including such modifications in
project approach as may be made necessary by the evolution of national
policies or the progress of the project; (iii) the review of the detailed
annual work plan submitted by the Provincial Coordinating Committee
(para. 5.03); (iv) the exercising of financial control over the project and
assurance of timely availability of funds to the provincial project
authorities.
5.03     At the Provincial level the Provincial Coordinating Committee
(PCC), presided over by the Governor of Khemisset, would include the DPA
and his service chiefs (agricultural development, livestock, forestry,
rural engineering, research), the deputy project manager, representatives
from other Ministries and bodies involved (Public Works, Education, CNCA),
local government officials (Circle Chiefs) and influential representatives
from the local community. The PCC would ensure inter-ministerial
coordination and the involvement of the community in the progress of the
project, particularly in the preparation of the annual work plan. Acting
as the secretariat to the PCC would be the PMU.
5.04     At the local level, the technical services would be coordinated by
the directors of the agriculture centers, who would hold regular meeting
with senior staff from all concerned MARA agencies in the center's action
zone. This would ensure close technical cooperation at the local level in
operations, supervision of project works, and the collection of project
monitoring and evaluation data. Local involvement in the project would be
ensured through existing bodies such as the Agriculture Center
Administrative Councils (ACAC) and the two Technical Committees for
Ag ricultural Development (TCAD).  Both committees are presided over by the
Circle Chiefs, the local deputies of the Governor. The ACAC includes as
members the rural commune presidents in the agriculture center's action
zone, a representative from the local Chamber of Agriculture, two from
MARA's local services, one from the Finance Department, and a number of
local farmers. The director of the agriculture center has a consultative
role. The ACAC is mainly responsible for an advisory input into the annual
budget of the agriculture center. The TCAD exists at the Circle Level
(Rommani, Oulm-s), with a similar tri-partite composition (local
government, technical services, farmers). Its main function is to keep
abreast of agricultural problems encountered by farmers in the Circle
during each agricultural campaign (e.g. shortages of inputs, crop diseases)
and to report to the province-level technical committee chaired by the
Governor. Through those and other channels (Local Government Councils,
farmers' extension groups) a flow of informal feedback would come both to
the PMU and to the PCC. In their turn, members of the ACACs and the TCADs
would be a source of accurate information on project actions. For the
purposes of preparing the project's annual work plan, the AC Director would
be responsible for reviewing progress of all local project actions against
targets, both in respect to physical implementation and adoption of project



- 31 -
packages, and to assess targets and requirements for the following year.
In making his assessment he would formally involve the agriculture centre
extension staff, the other MARA services, and the ACAC and TCAD wherever
appropriate.
B. Principal Agricultural Support Services for the Project
5.05     Agricultural Extension would be implemented by the crop production
services of the DPA, and would evolve within the context of a national
re-definition of agricultural extension (para. 2.16). It would serve as a
pilot system for similar areas elsewhere in Morocco. To maintain its
experimental validy it would be capable of mid-term adjustment, to test new
Government concepts in the field. In its first three years, the project
would use extension agents at the agriculture center, subcenter and village
post level, supported by subject matter specialists, soil analysis
services, and an audio-visual unit in Khemisset. The extension system to
be introduced would distinguish between extension on rainfed and on
irrigated land, and would use both mass methods of communication and
individual on-farm consultation. It would (i) redefine the
responsibilities of the extension agent; (ii) institute regular and more
intensive timetables of field work; (iii) improve the support structure for
the agents; (iv) ensure adequate preservice and inservice training of
agricultural staff; (v) create working links between extension and research
on the farm; (vi) improve inputs distribution and machine repair services,
and (vii) encourage the formation of farmers' associations and service
cooperatives.
5.06     Extension would operate on three levels (for full details, see
Annex IX in Project File): (i) Mass extension through radio programs and
films. The DPA, Khemisset, would contract with regional radio stations
(Rabat, Meknes) to make and broadcast programs encouraging the adoption of
project packages, and publicizing project actions; and with MARA's central
Extension Directorate to produce a series of films illustrating
agricultural and livestock practices suitable to the project area. These
films would be shown by the mobile audio-visual teams in markets (see (ii)
below) and by the agriculture centers and sub-centers either on-premises or
in the villages; (ii) Mass extension through the Souks. By the second year
of the project, two specially fitted landrovers would visit the major souks
of the project area every week, and the minor souks every fortnight. They
would carry cine equipment with daylight projection facilities,
slide-projectors, and other audio-visual equipment, and would be staffed by
an extension agent and a technical agent from the Audio-Visual Unit. Since
every household in the project area normally attends one or more weekly
markets, this forum is ideal for reaching all classes of farmers. The
mobile unit would project films relevant to the agriculture, livestock and
soil-conservation concerns of the area, including those custom-made for the
project. It would re-broadcast radio programs, and present slide-tape
shows made by the Audio-Visual Unit. The mobile team would be joined at
the souk by representatives from the local project services. In addition
to advertizing technical project packages, veterinary treatment and
information on project services would be available. The mobile team would



- 32 -
also visit schools, farmers' extension groups (see (iii) below), and
agriculture centers and sub-centers; (iii) Individual extension to-private
farmers. (a) For the rainfed areas of the project, the experimental system
of pilot farms' started by the Government in 1981-82 would be developed
and refined . In contrast to the past, when the extension system has
concentrated on single crop extension, the "pilot farm" concept aims to
teach integrated farm management and budgeting as well as technical skills,
and, provides a concentrated extension effort which through its visibility
to surrounding farmers has a strong demonstration effect. Eighteen
extension agents would be assisted by four research assistants and
supervised by five senior rainfed extensionists (field crops), and by three
SMS (cereals; forage conservation; farm management). Their work program
would involve fortnightly visits to a number of 'pilot farmers'; 180 pilot
farmers would be selected in the first three years of the project, with a
sufficient geographical distribution to ensure visibility in all parts of
the project area. The majority of pilot farms selected would represent the
medium-sized semi-commercial farms upon which the project can expect to
have the most impact. Each pilot farmer would sign a contract with the
Agriculture Development Service of the DPA, agreeing to their assistance in
the management of his farm for a three-year period. In order to safeguard
the "pilot" farmer against possible losses, the Service would meet the
incremental input costs generated by their technical recommendations in the
first year, up to DH 300 per hectare, and with a ceiling of DH 6,000 per
farm. It is estimated that over a three-year contract period, the agent
would be able to form a regular working relationship with about 35 farmers
in the neighborhood of each pilot farm. (b) For the irrigated areas of the
project (para. 4.08), 8 extension agents would live on or near the
irrigation perimeters to give advisory services. These agents would also
operate a limited number of pilot farms on the rainfed land of farmers in
their perimeters of operation. For the irrigated land they would maintain
a regular schedule of advisory visits to groups of farmers, would help
organize perimeter maintenance and water management, and would ensure that
farmers obtain input supplies from the input staff at the agriculture
centers and sub-centers (para. 5.18). They would work closely with the
project's research assistants (para. 4.26), conducting programs of on-farm
trials, and would be backed-up at two levels: by one of the three senior
irrigation extensionists based at the Agriculture centers, and by the
irrigation SMS based in Khemisset.
5.07     In 1985-86, a review of the new extension system would take place
in the light of the evaluation of national extension policy, which would be
better defined by that date. It is recommended that the project be used as
a forum for experimenting with a fee-paying extension system such as the
one described in Annex IX, para. 23 of the Project File.
5.08     The services of the extension component depends upon the timely
recruitment of appropriate staff. Sufficient extension agents, service
extensionists and CT directors are available for employment. Recruitment
of SMS is likely to prove more difficult (para. 5.01) and some may have
therefore to be recruited from overseas. The audio visual unit would be
run by the training SMS, who should be appointed from among the first



- 33 -
SMS, who should be appointed from among the first graduates of the
"in-service" trainers, course to be held in 1982-83 at the new Development
and Training center (CNERV) in Meknes and should become available late
1983. The audio-visual technician and the graphics artist for the unit
should be selected prior to overseas training, no later than September 30,
1983. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these staff would be
appointed on the agreed dates.
5.09     Livestock.  The project would develop livestock production through
a set of integrated actions described in para. 4.07. The component would
be implemented by the Livestock Service of the DPA, using veterinary and
animal husbandry staff at the livestock center and sub-center level, in
close collaboration with the agricultural extension agents. The field
staff would be supported by the livestock breeding activities of the Oulmes
Cattle Farm and Telt Sheep Farm, and by one range management SMS at the DPA
in Khemisset. Livestock extension under the project would be based
primarily on the provision of specific animal services in central
locations, and on the improvement of fodder resources. On farm advisory
services would focus on integrated livestock and fodder management and
would include the encouragement of dairying where appropriate and the
popularizing of animal shelters, particularly in association with genetic
improvement to the herd, varying with the size of the farm and the
subzone. In the case of cattle, the project would emphasize the
improvement of the dairy herds of viable small and medium sized farms in
the depressions of Maaziz and Rommani, with access to parcels of irrigated
land. Initially stud bulls would be used, and artificial insemination
would be introduced at a later stage. The cattle breeding stations to be
established under the project would enable production of 1,500 improved
animals per year by full development. Credit would be made available for
the purchase of pure bred cows. Genetic improvement of the sheep would be
more widespread. Rams of the Timahdite race would be distributed to
selected individual herders possessing 25 or more ewes on contractual
arrangements obliging them to return to the livestock services an agreed
number of selected young rams. At full development, these multiplication
flocks would produce 1,500-2,000 selected rams each year, sufficient to
serve half of the ewe population.
5.10     Preventive animal health services would also be improved and
mobile anti-parasite dipping-units would be operated, with a greater
geographical coverage than fixed anti-parasite baths. Apart from actions
designed to increase range land and on-farm forage production, the project
would introduce proven methods of fodder conservation, to provide to
farmers at cost by the Agriculture Centers. Ensilage and hay treatment
units would be created to demonstrate on a wide scale the methods and the
financial advantages of increasing the nutritive value of fodder
conservation. After a successful period of demonstration, the equipment
would be sold to private individuals who would continue to provide the
services. In addition, an experimental unit would carry on trials in the
treatment of straw with ammonia, also on cost and with the same objective
of encouraging the adoption of profitable and sound livestock feeding
practices. As a service, project vehicles would undertake transportation
of molasses from nearby sugar factories to the farm gate; according to the
Code of Investments, transport costs would be met by the Government. Under



- 34 -
the provisions of the Code, the financing of the full investment costs of a
cooperative milk collection facility would be met by Government but
operating and maintenance costs would be recovered from farmers; the
project would add two such centers (para. 4.07). The milk collection
centers would be an integral part of the program to improve the genetic
stock and health of dairy cattle, and to increase fodder available to them.
5.11     Forestry.  The Provincial Forestry Services of the DPA would
implement the forestry component according to the existing management plans
which specify all forestry activities to be undertaken. However, about
100,000 ha in the State forest area have no management plan. As the
commercial and environmental value of these forests is not always high
enough to justify time-consuming and costly detailed inventories and
surveys, funds have been included in the project costs for the preparation
of relatively simple management plans. These plans would be based on
existing data and quick reconnaissance surveys supplemented by the
knowledge of the local forestry staff. This would allow planned management
to be introduced, even if it consists only of patrolling and boundary
maintenance, and would ensure continuity of actions and availability of
information.
5.12     Sylvopastoral Management.  For the enforcement of the
sylvopastoral management regulations, the key to any improvement program,
the project would ensure local compliance by (i) a major combined extension
effort (forestry and livestock and MOI) to explain the forest range
proposals and benefits co the population involved; (ii) implementing only
those range activities and regulations which have been agreed with the
population. Their acceptance of the new system of range improvements and
management regulations would be accomplished through close collaboration by
the project with MOI, and prior endorsement from provincial and local
committees (para 5.03-5.04).
5.13     The five forest range areas to be improved would each require a
cycle of studies, planning and discussions with the local population
lasting about 9 months prior to implementation of the forest range
program. The socio-economic study of the first forest range area to be
developed (Harcha) is already in progress. Preliminary studies by the
Forestry Department for 5,600 ha of State forests near Harcha are
completed. Discussions regarding the sylvopastoral program and farmer's
obligations under the project, between the DPA, MOI and the population
affected by the proposed activity have also been initiated.  Furthermore,
submission to the Bank of details of the technical and organizational
arrangements based on the new law (para. 7.05) and discussed and agreed
with the beneficiaries (including determination of stocking rates, rotation
plans and grazing taxes) would be a condition of disbursement, in each of
the five range development areas. Sylvopastoral improvements would be
implemented by a joint technical team consisting of staff provided by the
Forestry and Livestock Departments of DPA; INRA would assist the project by
undertaking resource studies of the forest range (eg. technical surveys and
fertilizers needs studies). An experienced range management officer would
be employed for two years to assist in the overall planning and supervision
of these operations and to carry out on the job training of Moroccan



- 35 -
staff. Funds have been included in the project for international
recruitment of the range management officer since Morocco does not have
sufficient people trained in range management to provide for the project.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the range management officer
would be appointed and be in position not later than September 30, 1983,
and that the technical implementation teams to be set up in each of the
five forest range areas would be directly responsible to the DPA.
5.14     Research.  Research and extension would be linked by locating in
each of the three ecological project zones a research assistant, who with
the extension agents would be responsible for identifying research needs,
demonstrating research results on the pilot farms (para. 5.06), and
maintaining a communication channel between farmers and research. In
addition, the INRA agricultural research specialist at DPA level would, in
conjunction with the project SMS's and directors of the project's
Agricultural Centers, establish specific problem solving research topics
for the annual research program. Except for the forestry research program,
which would be carried out by the Forestry Services, the applied
agricultural research for the project would be executed by INRA staff and
work in close cooperation with PMU and CT staff. The submission of the
project's global research program, including the first year's detailed
program was submitted to the Bank at negotiations and found satisfactory.
Furthermore, assurances were obtained at negotations that INRA's annual
research program for the project would be annually reviewed by the Bank
before implementation.
5.15     Infrastructure.  In respect to the proposed project infrastructure,
the Rural Engineering division of the DPA in Khemisset would be responsible
for the preparation of tender documents and supervision of construction
(except for the education and health component para. 5.01). Since this
task is too large for the available manpower, additional staff would be
required and a large portion of final design and preparation of tender
documents would be entrusted to local consulting firms who have experience
in this type of work. Except in the case of schools and buildings for the
health component, completed works are handed over to the local Government
Councils which are responsible for their operation and maintenance. Annual
budget allocations to the Councils for operation and maintenance is
generally adequate. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government would ensure that those Councils would operate and maintain the
infrastructure in question with appropriate financial and technical means,
and would make all necessary safety inspections, repairs and renewals.
5.16     Rehabilitation of degraded forest tracks and maintenance of the
agricultural and forest roads network will be carried out by two road
brigades to be established in Oulmes under the authority of the DPA. The
brigades would be organized around a central workshop each staffed with a
mechanic and two aides. The field work would be directed by a foreman
responsible for direct supervision of works, recruitment of local unskilled
workers and organization of equipment maintenance. The brigade staff would
also include five equipment operators and five drivers. A repair van would
follow the brigades and provide mechanical assistance. The overall
preparation, supervision and coordination of design, and execution of
proposed road works, would be done by an experienced road engineer



- 36 -
recruited by the PMU under the direct supervision of the project manager.
Construction of rural roads and forest tracks would be carried out by
private contractors recruited after competitive bidding. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the roads brigades be established and
adequately staffed not later than December 31, 1983 with the roads engineer
to be appointed not later than September 30, 1983, and that the Government
would cause sufficient funds to be made available for operations and
maintenance and ensure that the local Government Councils of the communes
benefitting from those roads would contribute a proportion of the
operating and maintenance costs from existing budgets.
5.17     Training.  (ij A year of preservice training would be given to the
29 extension agents required by the project in two groups, in 1982-83 and
1983-84. This additional year of practical work would supplement the
standard two years of basic training, and would consist of farm work with
limited special studies and training visits to the agents' future posts.
While the basic training stresses practical training, it does not give
trainees an appreciation of the realities of farming, and the third year
course would do this. It would be organized at Tiflet, a training school
for extension agents on the edge of the project area, with typical rainfall
and soil conditions. Groups of trainees would be given at the beginning of
the season plots of land of 5-15 ha of rainfed land to work and manage, and
would simulate farm systems typical in the project area. Trainees would
also farm irrigated plots, and would manage livestock belonging to the
school's exis.ting herd. Realism would be assured by making the trainees
work within the economic constraints faced by typical medium-sized farms in
the project area, and follow development plans and packages coincident with
those they would later advocate. In addition they would take classes in
farm budgeting and planning, rural sociology, and communication methods.
The project would provide the extra civil works, equipment, inputs and
operating costs needed by Tiflet to run this course, an experienced senior
extensionist to coordinate it, and technical assistance to help with its
establishment. (ii) Other preservice training to be given under the
project would include short periods of overseas training for the
audio-visual technician and graphics artist of the Audio-Visual Unit and
for the agricultural economist (monitoring and evaluation) of the PMU.
(iii) In-service refresher training would be coordinated by a new training
SMS, using the facilities at Tiflet for the extension agents, senior
extensionists and research assistants (four times each year for five days)
and, in separate short courses for the agriculture center support staff
(inputs staff, mechanics, etc.). SMS and senior extentionists would also
attend technical seminars organized throughout Morocco by MARA's "Service
de Formation Permanente", and courses provided by the new Development and
Extension Training Center (CNERV) at Meknes from 1983-1984 onwards.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the annual training program
mentioned in (iii) would be annually reviewed by the Bank before
implementation.



- 37 -
5.18     Agricultural Input Supply, Machinery and Credit.  Extension
advisory services are of limited use without adequate access to inputs.
Accordingly, the project would strengthen the input supply system by
construction of four additional inputs stores, and by assuring an adequate
production of high-yielding seeds (para 6.14). The project would require a
substantial increase in short-term credit available to farmers, as well as
improved access to credit for small farmers. This will be achieved by:
(i) introducing in the project area new criteria to determine farmers'
seasonal credit requirements and new procedures for loan approval (para
3.17); and (ii) increasing the staff and facilities of CNCA in the area.
Short-term credit would be provided for the purchase of necessary inputs,
and to pay for labor and machine services. Small farmers' seasonal credit
eligibility would be based, as in the case of commercial farmers serviced
by CRCAs, on estimates of actual crop production costs. These estimates
are determined annually by CNCA in collaboration with MARA services. The
total amount of seasonal credit available to a farmer served by a CLCA
would be limited by the farmer's overall debt service capacity, estimated
at 50% of his potential agricultural income. This limit to farmer
borrowing would provide CNCA with an adequate measure of safety against a
reduction in farmers' debt repayment capacity caused by poor harvests.
Medium-term loan appraisal procedures and conditions for small farmers
would be identical to those applied to CRCA clients: they would be based
on technical criteria, and on the incremental income generated by the
investments. Farmers from the most remote communes have to undertake a
minimum of two trips to the nearest CNCA outlets every year. Each trip
usually requires two to three days of travelling. To provide improved
access to credit to a larger number of farmers, CNCA would open seasonal
outlets in each of the seven communes of the Project area, in the
communes's Agricultural Centers or souk, for a three-month period at the
beginning of each agricultural season. These outlets would receive,
evaluate and approve seasonal loan applications, and transmit investment
loan applications to the regional CRCAs for processing. During the rest of
the year, these seasonal outlets would be opened one day a week on the day
of the souk. Once a seasonal outlet could handle a lending volume
sufficient to cover its operating costs, CNCA would convert it into a
permanent CLCA. In addition, CNCA will shortly open a new CRCA in Rommani
to decrease the workload of the one in Khemisset, and a new CLCA in Tiddas,
as part of its overall plan of infrastructure development. To satisfy the
projected number of CNCA clients in the area at project full development,
about 10 additional loan officers would be necessary. This would not
present a problem to CNCA, which regularly recruits staff for its expanding
nation-wide operations and has a good internal training program. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that CNCA would provide adequate
resources to meet the project's seasonal and investment credit demand, open
up sufficient seasonal outlets and introduce in the area the new policies
basing small farmers' credit requirements on their actual crop production
plans.



- 38 -
C. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
5.19     Monitoring  of inputs, activities and outputs of the proposed
project would be executed by the PMU. The two man-months of short-term
consultancy for monitoring would be provided to the PMU to assist in
determining (i) critical indicators for regular measurement; (ii) a simple
data collection system; (iii) efficient analysis procedures. An
agricultural economist would be attached to the PMU for the duration of the
project. He would be assisted by three secondary-school graduates who
would be stationed in the CTs at Rommani, Oulmes and Maaziz as enumerators
to collect field data, principally by working with the extension staff.
The local technical services of MARA would be responsible for the
collection and synthesis of standard monitoring data. The agricultural
economist would submit regular reports to the PMU on project inputs,
activities, external variables of consequence, and achievements. The PMU
would send quarterly reports of progress both to the MARA and to CNCA and
would provide a basis for discussions at the NPCC and PCC. The PMU would
submit to the Bank on a twice-yearly basis a report derived from this
information. It would detail physical progress, problems and proposed
remedies; progress towards the goals of the project; and policy decisions
needed to assure further project success. MARA would prepare a completion
report, based on the monitoring and evaluation exercises, to be submitted
to the Bank no later than six months after closing of the loan. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the PMJ and MARA would submit the above
mentioned reports.
5.20     Evaluation.  Evaluation of project impact and effectiveness would
be supervised by the Central Project Monitoring & Evaluation Unit of MARA.
Technical Assistance to this Unit is being provided under the Loukkos
Project to help draw up standard monitoring and evaluation procedures for
Bank-financed projects. One man-month of short-term consultancy for
evaluation would be provided to the PMU; the agricultural economist and his
field enumerators would also carry out the evaluation studies. The main
purpose of evaluation work would be to provide information to the project
manager on (i) the impact of the project on farm production and income;
(ii) the distribution-of project benefits among farmers; (iii) access of
different groups to project inputs and (iv) continuing constraints to
development. The primary purpose for deriving this information would be to
serve the project, by giving practical guidance to the project manager
quickly enough for it to be used in adjusting the project. The project
would adopt a pragmatic and quick approach to evaluation, concentrating on
in-depth farm profile studies (see Annex XI), combined with the
longitudinal collection of information on changes in key indicators of
wealth and well-being. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
M&E agricultural economist would be appointed on September 30, 1983.



- 39 -
VI. Production, Marketing and Prices
A. Production
6.01     Crop and Livestock Production.  Most of the increased agricultural
production due to the project would come from the introduction of
relatively simple improved technical packages and from changes in the
cropping pattern (reduction of the area of fallow by 33% and increase in
the area of fodder and legumes, by 155% and 30% respectively). The
productivity of the herds would increase mainly due to better nutrition and
herd management, and genetic improvements. Production increases would
result from the participation in the project by 55% of the farm families
living in the project area, managing between them about 70% of the
cultivable land. Increased crop and livestock production is summarized
below. Forage production through forest range improvements would be
increased by about 6 million feed units at full development (year 12).
Present      Incremental Production         %
Production       at full Development    Increase
------------- (Q000  t)
Crops
Cereals                     70.4                      8.2            12 /a
Forage                      14.9                     42.6           290
Legumes                     15.7                     13.2            85
Olives                       0.6                      0.7           100
Fruit                        3.2                      0.8           115
Vegetables                   3.5                     12.5           360
Livestock                  --------------('000 t)------------
Beef meat                    2.1                      0.8            40
Cow milk                     5.9                     10.0           170
Sheep meat                   1.1                      1.0            90
Wool                         0.2                      0.01           50
Goat meat                    0.3                     -0.08          -25
Goat milk                    0.8                      0.5            65
/a While total cereal production would increase by 12%, per hectare yields
would rise by over 20%. This is masked by the reduction in the
hectarage of cereal by 9% in favor of legumes and forage. Details on
yields increases are given in Annex I and II of the Project File.
Forestry Production
6.02     Wood production from the plantations would begin after the project
investment period, according to the rotation lengths and yields given in
paras. 4.11-4.12. The estimated wood fiber production over the 35 years of
the project is as follow;



- 40 -
Pulpwood  Rural Poles  Sawlogs  Pitprops  Poles  Fuelwood
---(1,000 m3 u.b.)-----------------------
Eucalyptus            345           246          -        -         -      247
Pine                    -             -        340      198       265       80
B. Prices, Markets and Marketing of Project Output
Agriculture and Livestock Products.
6.03.    The bulk of traded agricultural and livestock production from the
project area is privately sold through the traditional network of local
weekly markets, the souks. The exceptions to this are a proportion of
cereal and pulse production, milk, and tree crops (paras. 6.04/5,
6.09/10). There are 15 souks in the project area, 14 of which would be
improved under the project.
6.04     Cereals.  In a normal year (1979), the project area produces a
marketable cereal surplus (32,500 t in 1979). Some 90% of this is traded
privately, with up to one-third purchased directly from farmers by
wholesalers from outside the project area. Another 60% is traded through
the souks, and about 10% (1978, 1979) is purchased by SCAM (Societ4
Cooperative Agricole Marocaine), a subsidiary of the official cereal
marketing chain supervised by ONICL (Office National Interprofessionel des
Cereales et Legumineuses). ONICL intervenes in the cereal trade to
guarantee high enough producer prices to stimulate production, while
maintaining low prices particularly for bread for urban consumers, every
year fixing support prices for the main cereals and itself marketing part
of the production. Over the last four years, the Government has readjusted
official producer cereal upwards, and they are now sufficiently attractive
to stimulate production. Current support prices stand at DH 1,450/t for
durum wheat, DH 1,350/t for bread wheat, and DH 1,000/t for barley, and
adequately cover production costs. Off-season producer prices on the free
market average 5-15% more than support prices, and prices offered by
contractors at the farm gate are reportedly much less (10-30%), due to the
lack of transport available to farmers. Morocco is already a cereal
importer and since national cereal demand has been projected to rise by as
much as 80% between 1982 and 2000L; no problem is foreseen in marketing
the growing surplus from the project area.
6.05     Pulses.  At present (1980) Morocco exports about 35% of its
pulses, primarily to EEC countries, and the potential for exports is likely
to increase as dry broad-beans and chick peas are used increasingly as
fillers for manufactured food. As the Government does not intervene in the
pulse market, the area's surplus is sold either on contract at the farm
gate, or through the souks (to intermediaries, or directly to the agents of
/1 Agriculture Sector Memorandum on Morocco, Table 10; 4.3% per annum per
capita income growth rate assumption.



- 41 -
exporters and urban wholesalers). Prices in 1981-1982 averaged DH
2,200/ton in the project area.
6.06     Fruit and Vegetables.  The Oulm&s region supplies 7% of the
nation's apples and 6% of its pears production. Almost the entire crop is
sold on the tree to contractors from Meknes, Casabanca and Rabat, who stock
it in cold storage facilities, re-importing part of the production to the
souks in the project area during the off-season. There are consumer price
differences of over 100% between harvest and off-season prices, but even
harvest produce prices more than adequately cover production costs,
indicating considerable surplus demand for fruit. To decrease seasonal
price fluctuation and secure a larger part of the value added through
marketing, local producers are expect to seek CNCA financing to establish a
cold store for 0ulmas to be built during the project period. Summer
vegetable production also falls far short of local demand, and the extra
production generated by the project would be sold and consumed locally, or
to the nearby urban centers.
6.07     Fodder.  The project area is currently deficient in fodder
resources by approximately 10% of current livestock needs (para. 3.10).
Within the project area, individual fodder surplus is mainly sold by medium
and large farmers renting fallow and stubble to smaller farmers. As the
project will reduce the area of fallow land by one third by full
development, the emphasis in fodder production and marketing will shift
from natural, low cost sources towards a greater volume of hay and cereal
sales, and fodder costs are as a result expected to rise from an average of
DH 0.35/FU to DH 0.70/FU (1982 prices) but with improved fodder quality.
The lucerne produced under irrigated conditions in the project area would
be used on the producing farm for dairy cattle fodder. The bulk of the
increased fodder production due to the project will be used on-farm while a
small balance would be marketed outside the project area. Given the
deficit in fodder production in Morocco no marketing problems are foreseen.
6.08     Meat.  Morocco is still basically self-sufficient in red meat but
it does not have the capacity to export. There is no import of live
animals but for herd improvement purposes. Imports of chilled meat are
insignificant and only the armed forces are allowed to import frozen meat
(7,600 t in 1980). However, as population and per capita income, it is
expected that Morocco will have to rely in the future on growing amounts of
meat imports to satisfy domeqtic meat demand.  Projections of the national
demand for meat made in 1980l1 indicated a potential increase in total
demand of over 200% by 2000. The marketing of extra meat resulting from
the project is not expected to pose problems. Live animals are sold mainly
in the souks with about 50% destined for municipal slaughterhouses in the
large cities outside the project area and between 10 and 20% of the animals
bought by local butchers. The remaining animals are sold to individual
herders and consumers. Liveweight prices of about 8,900 DH/ton for beef,
and 11,000 DH/ton for mutton (1982 prices) are expected under the project.
/1 See; Agriculture Sector Memorandum on Morocco, Report No. 2667-a-MOR,
Table 10.



- 42 -
6.09     Milk.  Prices paid to producers are fixed by the Government,
currently at 1.45 DH/kg, and have been adequate to encourage production;
between 1971 and 1979 the volume of milk received by processing centers in
Morocco rose by 350%, and now about 1/3 of total cow's milk production is
sold through processing centers. However, in 1980, Morocco imported the
equivalent of about 10% of its domestic milk production and with national
milk demand projected to grow at a rate similar to that for meat
(para. 6.08), the country's milk imports are expected to increase
substantially so that marketing of project production is not expected to be
a problem. The project would increase milk storage capacity at existing
and new centers from 2,500 1 per day to 9,500 litres per day by the end of
the project and regular collection by Meknes and Casabalanca-based
processing cooperative would continue. Goat's milk is mainly consumed on
the farm.
Forestry Products
6.10     The Forestry Services of MARA sell wood stands through annual
auctions. About 200 private loggers operate small operations (between
20-40 ha per year) in the project area. Competition between loggers is
strong, keeping profit margins low. This competition in turn ensures that
prices received by the Government at auction approximate to the maximum
that can be expected.
6.11     Domestic demand for all categories of wood products, other than
wood pulp, considerably exceeds Morocco's production potential. No
difficulties are expected in marketing the project's output of utility and
industrial timber and fuelwood aimed at domestic consumption. Neither is
pulpwood marketing likely to present any difficulty, due to a rising demand
for paper in Morocco, and an anticipated increase in world market
consumption of paper and paperboard. World demand for bleached hardwood
sulfate pulp (the type produced by the nearby pulp mill at Sidi Yahia) is
expected to rise from 17 million t in 1980 to 25 million t by 1990, an
increase of 4% per year.
6.12     Eucalyptus Products.  In order to fulfill a supply contract signed
with the Sidi Yahia Mill, the Government requires loggers to deliver 55% of
eucalyptus harvested volume to the mill. The mill pays a price determined
annually by the Government through indexation to the price of European
bleached hardwood pulp. Real eucalyptus pulp wood price is expected to
increase from DH 130/m3 (1983) to DH 132/m3 (1985) and DH 135/m3
(1990).  The remaining eucalyptus harvest is sold as poles for
construction, and fuelwood. Sidi Yahia wholesale depot is the most
important in the country for rural construction poles with prices in
1981-1982 at about DH 180/m3; the estimated 20% residual eucalyptus wood
is sold as fuelwood. It is almost entirely transformed into charcoal for
sale in urban areas, with one m3 of fuelwood giving 1.8 quintal which
sells on-site for about DH 50-70/q.



- 43 -
6.13     Pine Products.  In 1980, coniferous wood imports represented more
than 70% of total wood imports to Morocco. The domestic market would
absorb project pine products without difficulty. These products include
sawlogs, pitprops, poles, sawlogs and fuelwood. In 1981-1982 average
prices were DH 350/m3 for pitprops, 250 m3 for sawlogs and 300 m3 for
5m-poles. Fuelwood is sold as charcoal.
C. Supply and Marketing of Project Inputs
6.14     Seed.  High-yielding cereal seeds are sold exclusively by SONACOS
(Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Semences) through stores in the
agriculture centers and subcenters. The distribution network would be
expanded under the project (para 5.18), and by full development, use of HYV
cereal seeds would increase from 1400 to 4300 tons per annum. The main
constraint to increased use thus far has been insufficient supply. Cereal
and forage seed supplies to the project would be assured by a gradual
expansion of the existing outgrower network, which includes Agrarian Reform
Cooperatives, SOGETA state farms, and private farmers under contract.
SONACOS in its operations subsidizes both the seed-producer and the farmer
using HYV seeds; the subsidy to the individual HYV user varies from 20% for
wheat seeds, to 30% and 35% for forage and barley seeds, with subsidies to
farmers groups and cooperatives currently at 25% for wheat seeds, and 60%
for forage seeds, thus encouraging an increased production of forage and
drought resistant cereal.
6.15     Fertilizers.  Apart from phosphates, fertilizers are imported and
processed by FERTIMA (Societe Marocaine des Fertilisants); FERTIMA, using
six of the ACs and ASCs as outlets, is also the sole official marketer of
fertilizers in the project area, as no network of licensed dealers has yet
developed. Small quantities are also sold by independent traders on the
souks. Under the project fertilizer marketing would continue to be handled
by the CT's in the initial stages of the project but would, subsequent to
the extent possible, pass from the CT's to the private sector, with
individuals or farmers' groups renting existing or planned storage space
from ACs and ASCs. Farmgate prices of fertilizers are substantially below
border-price equivalents, with a subsidy provided directly to FERTIMA and
SCP (Societd Cherifienne des Phosphates, processor of domestically-mined
phosphate-based fertilizers), rather than to farmers at the local level.
6.16     Pesticides.  Pesticides are privately imported, and sold by both
large and small dealers in the towns, villages and souks in the project
area. The demand for pesticides, which will rise by over 300% by full
development of the project, would be easily met by existing local suppliers.
6.17     Machine Services.  At present, the CTs and SCTs provide a very few
of the smaller farmers with subsidized machine services, with the accent on
ploughing, cover-cropping and hay-baling; only 1% of the field-crop SAU of
private farmers is serviced this way. The private sector provides the vast
majority of machine services, with larger farmers renting the spare
capacity of tractors and equipment to smaller farmers. The developments



- 44 -
foreseen under the project would require the number of tractors to increase
in the area from approximately 210 at present, to 335 at full development.
These would be financed through CNCA channels to private farmers.
VII. Financial Analysis
A. Financial Implications for Farmers
7.01     To quantify financial costs and benefits of the proposed actions
to the farmers, farm budgets have been developed for each of the three
subzones in the project area in Annex XII of the Project File. Per hectare
financial rates of return were prepared for the small irrigation component
and the DRS program and are shown in the Project File. The subzones'
selection is based on the ecological conditions (rainfall, topography,
soils) which have determined the farming systems. The farm models chosen
were based on studies of the farmers in the project area which included (i)
a typology study which categorized farm parameters from a random sample
survey; and (ii) information from regional technical staff on production
potential and production methods. The farm models chosen represent typical
farmsizes and farming systems found on rainfed land in the three subzones.
Of the 12 representative models found in the project area only 7 can be
expected to derive major benefits from the project as it is assumed that
both the very large and very small types of farms would make only little
technical progress because of the project (with small farms remaining at
low levels of investments and large farms already operating as commercial
enterprises).
7.02     The changes in income and the financial rate of return to
investments to the indicative farms are;
Farm Models                  Income without       Income with      Financial Rate
Project             Project           of Return
-_______-------DH ------------
Subzone 1
Small farm 5.5 ha                3,900              6,700               21
Small farm 5.5 ha (asso-
ciated with irrigation)         4,400              7,700               25
Medium farm 30 ha               20,200             23,100               44
Subzone 2
Small farm 8.8 ha                4,500             10,100               29
Medium farm 31 ha               17,700             35,000               40
Subzone 3
Medium farm 17 ha                5,600              8,500               32
Large farm 93 ha                25,100             36,300               40
The results suggest that the incentives to participate in the Program are
substantial and that farmers would be able to repay the required recovery



- 45 -
The results suggest that the incentives to participate in the Program are
substantial. The per ha financial rate of return of the approximately 600
ha of new irrigated perimeters and rehabilitation works is over 100%, due
to the very high value of the irrigated vegetables cultivated in the area
and the relatively low per ha investment cost (for new areas about
US$2,700/ha). The financial rate of return on the irrigated land suggests
the possibility of the Government recovering a substantial part of the
investment without eliminating farmers' incentives to undertake the
proposed works. The financial return on the per ha soil conservation
measures provided by the project to private farmers varies from 12 to 22%.
B. Financial Implication to Government and Cost Recovery
7.03     Subsidies.  Government subsidizes farm inputs and investments to
stimulate use of modern inputs, foster on-farm investment and provide
sufficient production incentives to farmers while at the same time maintain
relatively low price for consumers. Seeds of improved varieties, plant
protection chemicals and tractors services are subsidized to various
degrees. The Government recently changed its subsidy policy for
fertilizers: subsidies at users' level have been abandoned in favor of
subsidies granted to state enterprises importing (FERTIMA) and producing
(Societe Cherifienne des Phosphates) fertilizers. The Agricultural
Investment Code provides the basis for subsidies for on-farm investments.
Under the project, the most important investment subsidies granted to
individual farmers would be for purchase of tractors and implements (10% of
list price), draught animals and implements (50%) and pure bred livestock
(25%), for the construction of livestock shelter (20%), for land
improvement (40%) and for the establishment of fruit-tree and cereal
banquettes for soil conservation (40%). In addition, 60% of the cost of
small scale irrigation infrastructure (para. 7.06) and the totality of that
of milk collection centers would be borne by the State. For the project as
a whole, the Net Present Value (10% discount rate) of incremental
production cost subsidies has been estimated at DH 4.6 million and that of
investment subsidies at DH 9.2 million. This would be offset to an
important extent by incremental tax revenues. The Net Present Value of
incremental taxes on agricultural production accruing to the Government
generated by the project would be some DR 6.6 million or 48% of total
agricultural subsidies. Overall, Government's recovery through user
charges and the fiscal system, while substantial, will not fully cover
Project costs to the Government. However, this is in line with Government
policy to develop the country's rainfed agricultural sector and effect some
income transfer in favor of one of the poorest segment of Morocco's
population.
7.04     The table below presents estimates of recovery of per ha
establishment and maintenance costs for 12,000 ha of forest plantations to
be established on stateland under the project.



- 46 -
NPV of Costs and Benefits per ha of Plantations and Cost Recovery
NPVLa of
Establishment                               Financial
& Ma4intenance            Cost Recovery    Rate of
Costs       Benefits   Coefficient       Return
---DH----------                % x
Production Plantations
Eucalyptus                4,110          2,960        72                7.0
Pine                      4,790          2,490        52                6.8
Protection Plantations
Eucalyptus                2,370          1,060        45                3.0
Pine                      2,570             780       30               4.4
Total                      13,840           7,290       53                6.0
/a 10% discount rate.
The overall financial rate of return of the plantation component is
6%./L The overall cost recovery coefficient is 53%. Establishment and
maintenance costs will be borne by the Government's general budget. Wood
product sale proceeds accrue to the communes within whose administrative
boundaries the forests are located, while an ad valorem tax is added to the
auction price and accrues to the 10% National Forestry Fund tax (FNF) and
some other administrative fees amounting to about 8% of auction price
accrue to the Government's general budget.
7.05     Forest Range Investments.  Existing legislation provides the
framework necessary for the implementation of the project's range
improvement component. The Dahir of 1917 recognizes customary tribal
grazing rights on State land and the right of the State to limit stocking
rates according to the carrying capacity of range land. It provides for
the creation of local commissions, composed of representatives of the
Government, the local authorities and of the tribes concerned, to identify
rightholders, fix stocking rates and determine plans for the management of
range perimeters. However, this law has been rarely applied, and then only
incompletely, because of the lack of key implementation decrees. A newly
proposed law ("relative a la creation de zones d'amelioration pastorale
dans les forets domaniales") sets out in detail the respective rights and
obligations of the central government, the communes and the grazing right
holders for improved range perimeters to be established on state land,
including the financing of required investments, Government subsidies and
cost recovery mechanisms. The draft law which has been adopted by the
/1 This compares with the economic Rate of Return of the component of 13%
(para. 8.05).



- 4 7 -
Government Council, will be submitted for approval to the Parliament during
1982. When adopted, it will apply to the project. According to its
proposed provisions, beneficiaries of the investments would be the grazing
right holders of the concerned area, provided they become members of a
grazing association created to manage the improved perimeter. The
Government would undertake physical implementation of the works and grant
investment subsidies of a level yet to be determined. The communes would
be requested to contribute an adequate part of the operation and
maintenance costs and of the investment costs relating to the sylvopastoral
improvements made under the project out of their forest revenues. The
level of their contribution would be fixed by the provincial Governor on
advice from the livestock and forestry services. The members of the
grazing associations would have to pay an annual grazing fee, to cover an
adequate level of operations and maintenance costs of the project's
perimeters, based on estimates prepared by the project's forest range
management unit in conjunction with elected representatives of the grazing
association, These fees will also take into account the user's ability to
pay. Assurances were obtained at negotiations to these effects. It is
expected that the proposed law will be in force before physical
implementation of project range improvement works are initiated in the
first perimeter.
Irrigation Investments
7.06     In connection with ongoing reform of the Small and Medium
Irrigation Subsector, tne Moroccan Government is redrafting a law of 1924
and its implementing decrees providing for the establishment of farmers
associations to create, operate and maintain irrigation or drainage
perimeters. Although the 1924 law provides a suitable framework for the
organization of farmers, it cannot be directly applied because of several
antiquated dispositions, unsuitable to current conditions and existing
institutions in Morocco. The revised law would preserve the main
dispositions of the 1924 law. In the meantime and as an interim measure,
de facto associations would be created, as it is the case for traditional
irrigation perimeters created under the Mekn2s Agricultural Project (Credit
555-MOR) also financed by the Bank, and the cost recovery arrangements
would be similar to those recently adopted by the Government for the Meknes
Project: 40% of investment costs would be borne by the beneficiaries and
recovered over a period of 20 years including a 3-year grace period,
bearing an interest rate of 8%; the beneficiaries would also bear 100% of
annual operation and maintenance costs. These arrangements would ensure a
recovery of about 60% of total project irrigation costs. Beneficiaires'
rent recovery index would be 16%. This is appropriate for farmers with
per-capita incomes situated between Morocco's estimated critical
consumption level and average per-capita income. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that, under the new law, the water charges to be paid by
the water users would be sufficient to recover all operation and
maintenance costs and an adequate portion of the investment costs in each
of the 11 perimeters. Prior to the establishment of de facto or formal
farmers' associations, a detailed socio-economic survey would determine the
exact distribution of land and water rights within the perimeter. These
water rights, which are currently often not formally established, would
then be properly registered. A condition of disbursement would be that the
Bank had received satisfactory evidence that the users of these perimeters



- 48 -
have been grouped into duly established associations and have agreed to
comply with the payment of adequate water charges and the adoption of cost
recovery formula mentioned above. Further assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the creation of formal farmers associations would follow
the enactment of the newly proposed law.
VIII. Benefits and Justifications
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
8.01     The project would benefit the population of seven communes of the
Khemisset Province. The main beneficiaries would be the participating
farmers and their families. It is estimated that some 6,130 farms out of a
total number of 11,400 farms in the area would participate in the project.
These families, representing about 54,000 persons, would directly benefit
from project actions through an increase in their farming income (para.
7.02). Farmers' participation rate has been based on their current level
of technology and the intensity of the proposed extension program in each
of the three project's sub-zones. The participation rate during the
project period corresponds to 54% of the farms representing 66% of the
area's total agricultural land (84,000 ha), as shown below:
Participation of Farmers in Project
Project Year
1       2         3        4         5
Incremental Number of Participating
Farmers                               61      304    2,055    1,990       1,720
Cumulative Number of Participating
Farmers                               61      365    2,420    4,410       6,130
Cumulative % of Area's Total
Farmers                                 1       3        21       39         54
Incremental Agricultural Area
under Project (ha)                 1,570   7,435   28,460   26,915    19,360
Total Agricultural Area under
Project (ha)                       1,570   9,005   37,465   64,380    83,740
Cumulative % of Total
Agricultural Land                       1       7        30       51         66
8.02     It is expected that improvement of agricultural techniques in the
area and easier access to agricultural services (credit) would have, in the
longer term, a positive impact on the non-participating farmers. The
latter would also benefit from the rural and social infrastructure financed
by the project. Although agricultural labor productivity would improve,
employment in agriculture and livestock is expected to increase from an
estimated 2.3 million man-days to about 2.8 million man-days by full
development, an increase of 22%. This is the equivalent of 2,300 new
full-time jobs. Based on farm-budget analysis and with the assumption that
there are two persons per family working full time on the farms, effective
employment on the farm would increase from 46% currently, to 56% at full
development (year 10). In addition, the implementation of the forestry



- 49 -
component would require more than 3.0 million man-days over the five-year
project period.
8.03     The project would also increase the forest revenues of the
communes in the area. The Net Present Value (10%) of the forest revenues
generated by project's plantations over a 35-year period would amount to DH
19 million or about (1982) DH 0.5 million per year. These revenues are for
the most part used to finance investments in the forest sub-sector and
communes' rural or social infrastructure, and would therefore benefit the
entire population of the area.
B. Economic Analysis
8.05     The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is
estimated at 14% over a 35-year period. Benefits include the value of the
incremental crop, livestock and wood fiber production resulting from
project actions, valued at economic prices. Project costs include the cost
of incremental inputs used on the farm, the cost of on-farm investments and
the project's capital and operating costs, also expressed in economic
terms. The economic cost of the project's social infrastructure components
has not been included in the total project cost used for the economic
analysis, since the long-term benefits of these components, which are
difficult to quantify, have not been included in the project's estimated
total benefits. Economic prices have valued those inputs and outputs
traded on world markets at border prices, adjusted for transport, handling
and processing in Morocco. Non-traded inputs or outputs have been valued
at their marginal value for project purposes. Separate rates of return
have been calculated for those various project components which can be
clearly separated out. They are indicated below.
Economic Rate of Return (%)
Total Project                                                 14.0
Agricultural Development Component                            15.5
Forest Component                                              13.0
of which Production Plantations                           13.5
Protection Plantations                          10.0
Soil Conservation Component                                   23.0
Irrigation Component                                          48.0
8.06     All project components show an acceptable Economic Rate of
Return. Only the value of the incremental wood-fiber production has been
included in Forest component benefits. Major long-term benefits deriving
from soil protection and watershed management measures undertaken by the
project have not been taken into account in the economic analysis. They
include various downstream positive externalities such as the decrease in
the rate of sedimentation of river basins, the reduction in areas of
agricultural land lost due to flooding, and the decrease in the siltation
rate of downstream reservoirs. An attempt has been made to assess the
economic value of some of the downstream effects of watershed management
through an estimation of the losses in irrigated crops avoided by



- 50 -
decreasing the siltation rate of the dam on the river Bou Regreg near
Rabat. The river Grou, whose watershed management would be improved by the
Project, is a tributary of the Bou Regreg. The Net Present Value of
downstream benefits generated by project soil conservation works has been
estimated at about DH 75/ha. Inclusion of these benefits in economic
calculations had however little impact on ERRs of Forestry and Soil
Conservation components.
C. Project Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
8.07     The project design attempts to minimize the main risks of the
project; those are:
ti) the occurrence of an exceptionally severe drought, which would
decrease and/or delay the project's expected agricultural benefits;
(ii) the adoption of proposed agricultural packages by a lower number
of farmers in the area than expected;
(iii) the refusal of the concerned population to participate in, support
and respect the proposed range management techniques; and
(iv) delays in implementation due to administrative inefficiences.
8.08     The effects of foreseeable droughts on crop and livestock
production have been emoodied in the estimated crop and livestock yields.
However, the occurrence of an exceptionally severe drought such as in 1981
could decrease the agricultural production of the year concerned by as much
as 50%, and could also negatively affect the rate of farmers' adoption of
the proposed agricultural packages. Project analysis has assumed a
relatively low rate of farmers' participation at full development (54%),
with rates of adoption increasing with the size of the farm and the
technological level of farmers. The proposed technical packages are well
proven and have already shown their efficacy in the region. The
recommended extension system, along with increased access to agricultural
credit, would ensure the participation of farmers. But for investments for
fruit-tree banquettes, which are in high demand by private farmers because
of their financial returns, the costs of project soil conservation works on
private land would be borne by the government as part of a demonstration
program. Adoption of these conservation techniques is therefore likely, as
farmers of the area are already aware of potential benefits of such
techniques as contour plowing.
8.09     The risk of refusal of proposed range management techniques
(rotation, deferred grazing, respect of stocking rates) is significant.
However, range improvement investment costs represent about 5% of total
project investments and the risk of non-cooperation by concerned
populations has been minimized by (i) ensuring that range improvement
actions would be implemented only after local users have been consulted and
had given their consent to the program; (ii) linking the adoption of range
management practices with improved access to veterinary and other livestock
support services; and (iii) introducing the envisaged mechanisms for
investment and operating costs of the improved range perimeters only when



- 51 -
their benefits have clearly been demonstrated. Moreover, traditional range
management and rotations had long been practiced by Moroccan tribes before
being gradually eliminated by increased population and livestock pressure.
The recent catastrophic drought has heightened population awareness of the
urgent need for rational range management and the enforcement of stricter
grazing regulations.
8.10     Delays in Project implementation due to administrative constraints
have been frequent in Morocco. This risk has been reduced by (i)
minimizing the complexity of project actions; (ii) limiting the number of
independent agencies involved; (iii) requesting individual itemization of
works connected with the project and their corresponding funds in each of
those agencies' annual physical and budgetary programs (Lois de Finances),
and (iv) having the Provincial Governor, who represents all ministries at
the Provincial level, chair the Provincial Coordination Committee (para
5.03), which should ensure adequate coordination and quick solution of
disputes. In addition, the early involvement of Moroccan provincial staff
in the preparation of the Project, and their commitment to its
implementation, are expected to minimize possible start-up difficulties.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.11     The risks discussed above such as the occurence of a drought would
translate into either reductions in crop yields, a lower participation of
farmers, cost overruns or delays in implementation. Sensitivity analysis
was undertaken to reflecc the impact of such occurrences on the Project's
ERR. It is summarized below:
Economic Rates
of Return
Base case                                             14
Decrease in total expected benefits 10%               11
Decrease of 10% in agricultural benefits              12
Total benefits delayed by 2 years                      9
Cost overruns of 20%                                  10
Cost overruns of 10% and decrease in
benefits of 10%                                     10
Decrease of expected participation by 20%             12
Switching values for Project's most critical variables are given below:
Switching Values for
Critical Variables /1
Agricultural Production                                -17
Forest Production                                     -130
On-farm Inputs and Investments                         +26
Forestry Costs                                        +150
Infrastructure Costs                                   +72
Total Project Costs                                    +20
Rate of Participation of Farmers                       -40
/1 Discount rate = 10%



- 52 -
IX. Major Agreements Reached at Negotiations
9.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(i)    each government department participating in the project would
have its annual budgetary resources individualized in the
relevant annual Loi de Finances and prgrammes d'emploi, would
maintain separate project accounts for project works; these
accounts would be audited by the Ministry of Finance and this
audit report would be submitted along with year-end certified
summary accounts of participating Government departments within
6 months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit report would
include a specific opinion as described in para. 4.42;
(ii)    the PMU would be fully staffed by September 30, 1983, and local
extension staff would be obtained as and when required (para
5.01);
(iii)   the social infrastructure would be operated and maintained with
appropriate financial and technical means and all necessary
safety inspections, renewals and repairs would be made
(para. 5.15);
(iv)    the road maintenance brigade be established and adequately
staffed not later than December 31, 1983, with the road engineer
to be appointed not later than September 30, 1983, and that
sufficient funds would be made available for operating and
maintenance are made available as described in para para. 5.16;
(v)    an adequate part of the investment costs and of the operation
and maintenance costs of the five forest range improvement
zones, would be paid by the communes in the manner described in
para. 7.05;
(vi)    the cost recovery formula as described in para. 7.06 would be
adopted for the 11 irrigation perimeters to be developed under
the project. Furthermore the creation of formal farmers
associations would follow the enactment of the newly proposed
law; and
(vii)   CNCA would provide adequate resources to meet the project's
seasonal and investment credit demand, open up sufficient
seasonal outlets and introduce in the project area the new
credit policies (para. 5.18);
9.02     Bank disbursement against investment cost on each of the five forest
range areas would be conditional upon submission to the Bank of details of the
technical and organizational arrangements of each of the five range
development areas (para. 5.13). Furthermore, Bank disbursement against
investment costs on each of the 11 irrigation perimeters would be conditional
upon fulfilling the conditions described in para. 7.06.
9.05     With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$30.0 million.



53-                                                           ANNEX I
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
OUUMES-ROMHANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
(nso -- nn)                                                   5u~a Costs t
Price Cont,
Base Costs                                 on Base    Foresin Etchante
Costs
Unit    Unit Cost No. of Units   1983         1984        1985        1986        1987      Total      (USS '000)    2       Aeount
1. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCT1ON
HOUSES, OFFICES                             UNIT     26.4-350            115 11,989.8    3.411.4   1200.8              -           -   16,602.0        3,407.9  40.1    6,651B8
WORKSHOPS , STORES , INPUTS CENTRES         UNIT         1-266         6,807  4,913.8    4,937.2        360.0           -           -   10,211.0        2r130.5  40.0    4,084.4
MILK COLLECTION CENTERS                     UNIT           170             2    170.0       170.0            -          -           -       340.0          70.6  40.0       136.0
SHEEP DIPS                                  UNIT           200             5    200.0       400.0       400.0            -           -    1,000.0         219.3  40.0       400.0
BREEDING STATIONS                           UNIT       2.5-530            12    575.0       577.5        20.0           -           -    1,172.5          244.1  40.0       469.0
NURSERIES                                   UNIT      280-600              3    505.0       825.0            -          -           -    1330.0          279,0  40.0       532.0
LAND PURCHASE                               UNIT             1           906    203.0       703.0            -          -           -       906.0         197.0   0.0          0.0
SCHOOL HOUSES                               UNIT            62            34    496.0       620.0       558.0       248.0       186,0    2,108.0          473.8  40.0       843.2
SCHOOLS                                     UNIT          38.7        14,784  8,372.0    1,122.3    3,780.7    3,325.8    1,991.2   18,592.0            4,149.3  40.0    7,436.8
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION                                                          27,424.6   12,766.4    6,319.5    3,573.8    2.177,2   52,261.5           11,171.5  39.3   20,553.2
Phasical Contingencies                                                     -  3,646.3    1,827.8        731.0       357.4       217.7    67080.2              -  39.2    2,659.4
Price Continsencies                                                        -  3,027.6    29769.0    1,960.3    1,452.4    1,110.8   10,320.1                  -  34.3    3,536.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                               34,098.5   17,363.2    9.010,8    5,383.6    3,505.7   69,361.8           11,171.5  38.6   26,749,3
Taxes                                                                      - 10,229.6    5,209.0    2,703.2    1,615.1    1,051.7   20,008.5                  -   0.0         0.0
ForelAn Exchange                                                           - 13,355.2    6,425.9    3,524.4    2,092.5    1,351.3   26.749.3                  -   0.0         0.0
P. PROjECT WORKS
IRRIGATION                                 UNIT        12-100            586    495.0    5t250.0    6,200.0             -           -   11,945.0       2,701.6  30.0    3,583.5
ROAD CONSTRUCTION                           UNIT        51-360           256  3,900.0   10.670.0   11.660.0    5,740.0              -   31.970,1        7,126.4  50.0   15,985.0
ELECTRIFICATION                             UNIT             I         4.500         -           -    1900.0    2,600.0            -    4.500.0        1,088.9  40.0    1,800.0
ROAD REHADILITATION                         UNIT            92            35  1,380.0    1.840,0             -           -          -    3,220.0          665.7  50.0    1,610.0
FLOOD PROTECTION                            UNIT             1         1,400         -           -    1,400.0           -           -    1,400.0          326.5  35.0       490.0
WATER SUPPLY                                UNIT         1-320        12.303    160.0    1.375.0    3,115.0    3,700.0    4,300,0   12,650.0            3,118.5  40.0    5,060.0
SEWAGE DISPOSAL                             UNIT             1         6,400  1,200.0    1.500.0    IP500.0    1.500.0          700.0    6,400.0        1.477.6  35.0    2i240.0
SOUK DEVELOPNT                              UNIT             1        11.800  1,000.0    1,800.0    3,000.0    2,500.0    3,500.0   11,800.0            2,852,3  35.0    4,130.0
STREET PAVING                               UNIT             1         1.400         -           -          -       700.0       700.0    1.400.0          362.5  35.0       490.0
PRODUCTIVE FOREST PLANTATIONS               UNIT    4.11-4.79          8,000  4,997.0    7,256.0    7.256.0    7,256.0    9,515.0   36,280.0            8,642.4  40.0   14,512.0
PROTECTIVE FOREST PLANTATIONS               UNIT          1-15         99000  1,395.5    3t.88.5    4,296.0    4,790.0    4,790.0   19,160.0            4,6109  40.0    7,664.0
FIRE BREAKS AND TOWERS                      UNIT         6-100            53      60.0      360.0        60.0        60.0        60.0       600.0         135.3  40.0       240.0
SYLVOPASTORAL DEVELOPNENT                    HA      0.09-3.3         31.150  2,142.2    2,761.6    3,492.9    4,176.3    4,056.3   16,629.2            3.979.5  40.0    6,651.7
Sub-Total PROJECT WORKS                                                         16,729.7   36,701.1   43,880.0   33,022.3   27,621.3  157,954.3           37,090.0  40.8   64,456.2
Physical Continsencies                                                     -  1,950.6    4,584.9    5,731.4    4,064.0    3,427.9   190758.9                  -  39.8    7.859.1
Price Contingencies                                                        -  1,808.7    7.744.9   13,823.4   13,752.2   14,707.0   51,836.2                  -  35.6   180477.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                               20,488.9   49,030.9   63,434.8   50,038.5   45,756.2  229,549.4           37,090.0  39.6   90,793.2
Taxes                                                                      -  5,100.4   12,354.3   15,968.9   12,353.9    9,194,0   54t971.4                  -   0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                           -  8,508.9   19,892.9   25,048,9   20,221.2   17,121.3   90,793.2                  -   0.0         0.0
C. EOUIPMENT
FARM HACHINERY                              UNIT        20-158            22    536.0        776.0      200.0            -          -    1f512.0          318.0  60.0       907.2
COLLECTION CENTER EQUIPMENT                 UNIT            50             7    100.0        100.0      100.0        50.0           -       350.0          75.7  60.0       210.0
EXTENSION EOUIPNENT                         UNIT    7.5-158.5             10    322.5        152.0           -           -          -       474.5          95.6  60.0       284.7
RESEARCH EQUIPNENT                          UNIT             1         2,584  1,219.0    1,265.0        100.0            -           -    2,504.0         544.4  30.0        775.2
FORESTRY EOUIPNENT                          UNIT       2.5-210            24    232.5       125.0       175.0            -          -       532.5         112.8  50.0       266.3
WORKSHOP EQUIPMENT                          UNIT         10-20            15    230.0            -           -           -           -      230.0          45.5  50.0        115.0
FARN EQUIPMENT AND TOOLS                    UNIT        0.5-60            81    140.0         30.0           -           -          -       170.0          34.5  40.0        68.0
ENGINEERING EGUIPMENT                       UNIT           142             5    284.0        355.0           -           -           -      639.0         131.1  60.0        383.4
FENCING                                     UNIT         0.3-1         3,660    211.4        254.6      219.0       262.5       262,5    1,210.0          283.0  50.0        605.0
ROAD NAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT                  UNIT         1-B50           396      96.0    4,396.0        96.0        96.0            -    4,684.0      1003.0  50.0    2,342.0
CADASTRAL SURVEY EQUIP                      UNIT             1         1,169    830.5        330.5           -           -           -    1,169.0         235.0  60.0        701.4
VETERINARY A LIVESTOCK EQUIPMENT            UNIT       0.2-184         1.054    444.0        100.0           -           -           -      544.0         108.5  60.0       326.4
SCHOOL EQUIPMENT                            UNIT    12.3-12.3            154    639.6       356.7       442.8       270.6       184.5    1,094.2          414.8  60.0    1,136.5
ADMINISTRATIVE EQUIPMENT                    UNIT         12-75            22    316.0         24.0           -           -           -      340.0          67.6  50.0        170.0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                               5,601.5    8,272.8    1,332.8         679.1      447.0   16,333.2        3,469.3  50.8    8,291.1
Physical Contingencies                                                     -    570.7        840.0       144.2        81.0       57.8    1.693.8               -  50.7       859.4
Price Contingencies                                                        -    552.0    1,614.7         386.6      264.2       222.7    3,040.2               -  47.8    1,452.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                 6,724.2   10,727.6    1,863.6    1,024.4          727.5   21,067.2       3,469.3  50.3   10,602.4
Taxes                                                                      -  2,130.8    3,630.3        587.8       306.5       180.7    6t836.2              -   0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                           -  3,406.8    5,260.7        997.5       552.7       384.7   10.602.4               -   0.0         0.0



-  54-                                                                ANNEX  I
Page 2
KINGDOM 0F MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF 1!HE
OUEMES-ROMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolect Costs
(DH '000)
D. SELECTED BREEDING ANIMALS
SELECTED LOCAL BREEDING ANIMALS            UNIT          1.2-9           600     50.0       204.0       234.0       156.0       390.0    1.034,0          256.7  20.0       206.0
Sub-Total SELECTED BREEDING ANIMALS                                                  50.0      204.0       234.0       156.0       390.0    1,034.0          256.7  20.0        206,S
PhFsical Contionencies                                                     -       6.5       26.5        30.4        20.3        50,7       134.4             -  20.0        26,9
Price Continencies                                                                 6.2       47.5        79.5        70.6       223.1       426.9             -  16.3         69.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                    62.7       278.0      343.9       246.B       663,8    1.595.3          256.7  19,0       30313
Taxes                                                                      -      8.2        36.1        44.7        32.1        86.3       2074              -   0.0         0 0
Foreisn Exchange                                                           -     12.2        53.7        66.1        46.9       124,3       303.3             -   0.0         0.0
E. VEHICLES
PASSENGER CARS                              UNIT         30-90            39    756.0       594.0        60.0            -          -    1.410.0          299,0  60.0       846.0
TRUCKS AND BUSES                           UNIT       100-150             17    750.0       720.0       450,0       450.0           -    2i370.0          511.2  50.0    Ir185.0
FOUR WHEEL DRIVE                            UNIT        70-140            29  1,140.0       770.0       280.0           -           -    2.190.0          452.4  60.0    1,314.0
MOTORBIKE                                   UNIT           4-4            34    100.0        36.0           -           -           -       136.0          27.3  50.0        68.0
TRACTOR                                     UNIT            80            10    160.0       480.0       160.0           -           -       800.0         169.5  60.0       4e0.0
Sub-T%tal VEHICLES                                                               2.906,0    2P600.0        950.0       450.0            -    6,906.0       0,449.4  56.4    3,092,0
Phtysical ContOnsencies                                                    -    290.6       260.0        95.0        45.0           -       690.6             -  56.4       389,3
Price Contingencies                                                        -    266.7       478.9       262.8       163.7           -    1,172.2              -  55.0       641.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                3,463.3    3,338.9    1,307.8          658.7           -    8.760,8       1,449.4  56.2    4992,.2
Taxes                                                                      -  1.373.4    1344.8         561.5       329.4           -    3.6090               -   0.0         (0.0
Foreisn ExchanSe                                                           -  1.973.3    1,902.8        721.7       329.4           -    4,927.2              -   0.0          0,0
F. TECHNhICAL ASSISTANCE                    MAN-MONTHS         55            53  1.650.0        935.0      330.0            -          -    2.915,0          601.2  85.0    2,477'.7
Price Contingencies                                                        -    143.7       162.0        85.7                       -       391.4             -  80.7       31',9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                 1F793.7    1,097.0        415.7           -           -    3,306.4         601.2  84.5    2.77,L6
Foreign Exchange                                                           -  1,516.9       926.1       350.5           -           -    2,793.6              -   0.0         c:uo
G. STUDIES AND TRAINING
STUDIES                                 MAN-MONTHS       1-250         4.959  2,245.0    2,360.0        850.0       250.0       250.0    5.955.0        1P283.0  50.0    2,977.5
LOCAL TRAINING                          NAN-MONTHS       0.8-2           532    175.4       189.1        91.1        93.0        61.7       610.3         139.S  15,0         91_5
OVERSEAS TRAINING                       MAN-MONTHS        1-10           125    200,0         30.0       60.0        30.0        30.0       350.0          75.2  75.0       26!.5
EXTENSION MEDIA CONTRACTS                MAN-MONTHS    55-110              2         -       77.0        66.0         11.0       11.0       165,0          37.4  40.0         66.0
CADASTRAL TECH, CONTRACTS               MAN-MONTHS         1-1         5.412  59412.0            -           -           -          -    5,412.0        1,064.3  60.0    3,247.2
CADASTRAL FIELD CONTRACTS                NAN-MONTHS          I         6.519  3,2595    3595                 -           -           -    6.519.0       1,358.2  30.0    1,955.7
Sub-Total STUDIES AND TRAINING                                                   01,292.0    5,915.6    1,067.1        384.1       352.7   19.011.3        3,957.6  45.2    0,600.4
Physical Contingencies                                                     -  1,129.2       591.6       106.7        30.4        35.3    1,901.1               -  45.2      060.0
Price Continsencies                                                        -  1,124,6    1.238.8        326.9       158.9       182.0    3,031.2               -  38.0    1,076.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                13,545.7    7,746.0    1,500.6        581,4       570,0   23,943.7        3,957.6  44,4   10,6`6.8
Taxes                                                                      -  4.559.3    29211.7        216.0        63,0        67,3    7,117.4              -   0.0          0,0
ForeigOn Exchange                                                          -  6.572,1    2,070.7        701.2       242,8       250.0   10,636.8               -   0,0         0,0
H, ON FARM INVESTMENTS
CROP DEVELOPMENT INVN                      DH 000            1        31,035    230,0    1.262,9    8,212.7   11.152,5   10,176,7   31,034,6            7,866.7  25.0    7,75B,7
LIVESTOCK BEV. INVM                        DH 000          1-1         8.291      17.8      138,9    1.004.1    2,091.6    4.238.4    S,290,9           2,120.9  40.0    3,31.6.3
INCREMENTAL SHORT TERM INPUTS              DH 000            1        56,448    260.7    2,743.9    8,387,0   17,691,8   27,364.8   56,448.1           14,355.9  40.0   22y5''9.3
,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~   ~  - - --     --- --- - -   --- -- --   ---- ----   -   --- - --     --   ---- --     -- --- -- --   -- -  ---.-.---- -
Sub-Total ON FARM INVESTMENTS                                                       508.5    4,145.6   07,603.8   31,735.8   41,779.9   95,773.6          24,343.5  35,1   33,654,2
Phasical Contingencies                                                     -      50.9      414.6    1,760.4    3,173.6    4,178,0    9,577,4                  -  35.1    3,3,.,4
Price Continsencies                                                        -      57.9      890.9    5,605.8   13,359,5   22,012,8   41,926.9                  -  30.4   12,745.6
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                   617.3    5,451.1   24,970.0   48,268.9   67,970.7  147,277.9          24,343.5  33.8   49,7S5.2
Taxes                                                                      -      96.5      932.1    3,892.6    8,159,6   12,257.0   25,337,8                  -   0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                           -    201.0    1,882.8    7,986.3   16,133.1   23,562.1   49,765.2                   -   0.0         0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                              66,162.2   71,540,4   71,717.1   70,001.0   72,768.1  352,108.9          82,339.1  40.4  142,132.7
Physical Contingencies                                                        -  7,644.7    8,545.4    8,599.1    7,779.7    7,967.4   40,536.4                   -  39,5   16,019,4
Price Contingencies                                                           -  6,987.4   14,946.9   22,531.0   29,221.5   38,458.4  112,145.2                   -  34.3   380418.9
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                       80,794.4   95,032.7  102,847.2  107,002.3  119,193.9  504,0870.5          82,339,1  38.9  196,571.1
Taxes                                                                         - 23,498,1   25.718.3   23,974.8   22?859.5   22,837.0  118,887,7                   -   0,0         0.0
Foreisn Exchange                                                              - 35,546.4   39,215.7   39,396.6   39.618,6   42,793,7  196,571.1                   -   0.0          0.0



55 -                                                                    ANNEX I
KINGDOtM OF MOROCCO                                                              Page 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
OUL14ES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL  DE'ELOPMLblT PROJECT
Project Costs
(DR '000)
11. RECIRIENT COSTS
A. PERSOYINEL
ENGINEERS                            MA-YEARS       30-55          159  1.117,5    1,489.0    1,441.0    1,441,0    1.441.0    6,929.5        1.676.2   C.0        0.0
TECHNICAL ASSOCIATES                 4AN-YEARS     1-32.5        6.689  3.170.3    3,264.2    2,7031.8    2,806.A    2,854.8  14,799,8       3,536.4  0.0          0.0
TEChNICAL ASSISTANTS                 MN-YEARS   3.6-22.5           26A    57.,3       915.4      962.4      962.4      962.4   4,281,9        1,045.9   0.0        0.0
SKILLED 112RKERS , 0R GS 4RI5ERS   MAN-YEARS   9.6-16.6            392    433.8       997.A    1'115.4    1,085.0    1,1D5.0    4,917.0       1,212.9  0.0         0.0
LABORERS                             HAN-YEARS         IS            12        -       45.0       45.0       45.0       45.0      106.0          44.9   0.0        0.0
Sub-Total PERSONNEL                                                        5,300,9    6,611.4    6,267.6    6.440.2    6,488,2   31,100.2       7,516.3   0.0         1.0
Price Cantinsexcues                                                  -    626.8    1.443.7    1,979.5    2,711.9    3,469,8   10,231.7              -   0.0        0.1
S0b-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                           5,927.7    0,055.0    8,247,1    9,152.1    9,959.0  41,339.9        7.516.3   0.0        0.0
Taxes                                                                -    592.8       805.5      824.7      915.2      995.8    4,134.0            -   0.0         0.0
S. SALARIES
DISPENSARY, MAERNITY                               70-125            8    195.0       195.0      195.0      i95.0          -      790.0         179,9   0.0        0,0
lab-Total SALARIES                                                            195.0      195.0      195.0      195.0          -      780.0         179.9  0,0         0.0
Price Centinsoecies                                                  -     23.1        42.6       01.6       02.1          -      209.3            -   0.0         0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING COGTIN5EKCIES                                            218.1       237.6      256.6      277.1          _      9G9.3         179.9  0,0         0.0
Taxes                                                                -      21.8       23.8       25.7       27.7                  98.9             -   0.0        0.0
C. D MD H PRGECT II;RK
CIVIL NR   M                           DH 000           1        2.099    172.6       324.5      490.7      555.7      555.7    2,099.2        508.0  35,0       734.7
SYLW0-PASTGRAL OIN                     DH 000        0.15       11,503         -       75.2      225.2      525.1      900.0    1,725.5        448.6  20.0       345.1
Sob-TotalI 0 AND H PROJECT WRKS                                               172.6      399.7      715.9    1,080.9   1.455,7   30,24.7           956.5  28.2    1,079.8
Ph-sacal Cont ssncies                                                 -     25.9       59.9      107.4      162.1      218.4      573.7             -  28.2      162.0
Price Continsgcies                                                   -      20.0       09.8      237,7      481.3      8230.    1,651.8             -  2302      383.1
Sub-Total INCLUDIN3 CDNTI0GENCIES                                            218.5       549.4    1,060.9    1,724.3    2,497.D    6,050.2         956.5  26,9    1,624,9
Taxes                  -                                             -      56.8      142.9      275.8      448.3      649.2    1,573.0             -   0.0        0.0
Foreoss Exchanoe                                                     -      75.1      172.3      311.5      458.4      607.5    1,624,9             -   0.0        0.0
D. 0 AND 9 E3UIFHENT
EXTENSION EQUIPMENT 01K                DH 000      1.1-50           49     89.0       115.5      115.5      115.5      115.5      551.0         128.5  45.0      248.0
RESEARCH EQUIPMENT 031                 DH 000           1          450      50.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100,0      450.0         105.9  45.0      202.5
FORESTRY E2UIPHEKT 014                 DH 000        1-30          332     30.5       138.5      222.0      224.0      224.0      842.0         202.7  45.0      170.9
VETERINARY I L1IESTOCK EQIPMENT 01D    0 D  000     1-9.5          993      17.0      095.2      642.8      862.4      916,4    2,830.8        693.4  45.0    1.275.2
ADMINNSTRATION EOUIPHENT               D000 606-15                 108    167.7       147,0      147.0      147.0      147.0      755.7         174,4  45.0      340,1
INPUTS COSTS FOR D080 I RESEARCH       IN 000        1-60        1.221    392.0       402.0      402.0      160.0      160.0    1,516.0        338.4  50.0       758.0
ENIKEERIKG EQUIP 01                   DH 000   14.2-14.2           20      28.4       63.9       63.9       63.9       63.9      204.0          66.9  45.0      127.8
R800 MAINTENANCE EQUIP 01              194H 000         1        3,600         -      900.0      900.0      900.0      900.0   3,600.0          863.3  45.0    1.620.0
UDRKENOP EQUIPMENT                     DH 000       3.5-7           75      77.0       80.5       80.5       80.5       00.5      399.0          92.5  45,0      179.6
Sit-Total 0 AND 9 EGUIPHENT                                                  854.6    2,342.6    2,673.7    2,653.3    2,707.3  11,231.5        2,665.9  45.7   5.130,0
Phssical Cotnserces                                                  -      85.5      234.3      267.4      265.0      270.7   1.120.2              -  45,7      513.0
Price Cootioseecles                                                  -      87,9      470.1      801.8    1,058.3    1,353.2   3,774.3              -  41.3    1558.7
Sub-Total INCLUDING C2NTINGENCIE8                                           1,027.9    3,050.0    3,742.8    3,976.9   4,331.3  16,129.0         2.665.9  44.7    7,201.7
Texes                                                                     308.4       915.0    1,122.8    1,190.1    1,299.4    4,839.7             -   0.0        0.0
Foreisn Exchaese                                                      -    480,9    1,177.1    1.681.6   1,759.5    1,902.7    7,201.7              -   0.0        0.0
E. 0 AND HN ORICLES
CARS 01H                                UINIT     7.8-9.B           91    105.4       144.4      160.0      160.0      160.0      729.8         171.1  45.0      328.4
FDU9R-WHEEL DRIVE 018                   UNIT       1-18.5        1,824    606.0       853.1      843,1      843.1      843.1    4,068.4         947.4  45.0    1.830.8
TRUCKS 21H                          -  17IT    16.3-25,3            08      54.3       90.5      139.4      188.0      118.3      660.7         159.0  45.0      297.3
NTDTRCYCLES 019                        LUIT           0.8          146      17.6       24.8       24.8       24.8       24.8      116.8          27.0  45.0       52.6
Sub-Total 0 AN8 H VEHICLES                                         -          063.3    1,112.8    1,167.3    1,216.2    1,216.2   5,575.7        1,304.8  45.0   2,509.1
PhRsacal Contirotecoes                                               -      06.1      111.3      116.7      121.6      121.6      557.6             -  45,0      250.9
Price Contingencies                                                  -      89.9      225.5      350.9      485.6      608.6    1,760.6             -  40.7      716.5
Sub-Total INCLLDIKN  C2NTI!ENCIES                                           1.039.5    1,449.6    1.635.0    1,823.4    1,946.4   7,893.9        1,304.8  44.0    3,476.4
Ta.es                                                                -    011.8       434.9      490.5      547.0      583.9    2,368.2             -   0.0        0.0
Feorein E.ehase                                                      -    462.2       641.9      722.1      801.1      B49.2   3,476.4              -   0.0        0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                           7,306.3   10,661.4  11,019.5   11,585.6   11,867.4  52,520.1        12,623.5  16.6    8,718.9
Ph-socal Coetononcles                                                     -    197.7      405.5      491.5      549.1      610.7    2,254.4             -  41.1      925.9
Price Contingencies                                                       -    847.7    2,274.7    0,431.5    4,819.3    6,254.6  17,627.8              -  15.1    2,658.3
Total IKCLU1NG CGNTIK3ENCIES                                                   8,431.7   13,341.5   14,942.4  16,954.0  18,732.7  72,402.3    12,623.5  17.0  12,303.0
Taoes                                                                     -  1.291.6    2,322.0    2,739.6   3,131.4    3,528.3  13,012.8               -   0,0        0.0
Fortian Exchane                                                           -  1018.2    2,1901.    2.715,2   3,010.9    3.359.4   12,303.0               -   0.0        0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                            73,548.5  82,201.8  82,736.6  81,586.6  84,635.5  484,708.9          94,962.6  37.3  150,851.6
Pheosical Cwetionegwaes                                                    - 7,842.4    8,950.9    9,090.6   8,328.8    8,578.2  42,790.9                -  39.6  16,945.3
Preae Continoeecais                                                        -  7,835.1   17.221.5  25,962.5  34,040.8   44,713.0  129,773.0               -  31.7  41,077.2
Total P1JECT COSTS                                                              89,226.1  114,374.2  117,789.7  123,956,2  137,926.6  577,272.8      94,962.6  36.2  2088874.1
Taxes                                                                      - 24,789.7  28,040.2  26,714.4  25,990.8  26,365.3  131,900.5                 -   0.0        0.0
Foretin Exchanse                                                           - 36,564.6  41,407.0   42.111.8   42,637.5  46,153.1  204,874.1               -   0.0        0.0
Novetber 2, 1982  17108



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE OULMES-ROMMANI
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                 Disbursement              Cumulative Disbursement
Semester Ending                 During Semester                at End of Semester
FY 84
December 31, 1983                   0.7                                0.7
June 30, 1984                       0.9                                1.6
FY 85
December 31, 1984                   1.2                                2.8
June 30, 1985                       1.3                               4.1
FY 86
December 31, 1985                   2.3                                6.4
June 30, 1986                       2.6                                9.0
FY 87
December 31, 1986                   2.8                               11.8
June 30, 1987                       3.0                               14.8
FY 88
December 31, 1987                   4.6                               19.4
June 30, 1988                       4.7                              24.1
FY 89
December 31, 1988                   3.3                               27.4
June 30, 1989                       1.6                              29.0
FY 90
December 31, 1989                   1.0                               30.0



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE OULMES-ROMMANI
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector in Morocco
Al. World Bank:    Memorandum on Morocco's Agricultural Sector - Report
2667a-MOR of May 21, 1980.
A2. World Bank:    Draft Public Sector Investment Review of Agricultural
Sector
A3. Plan de Developpement Economique et Social; Ao^ut 1981, 6 volumes
B. Reports and Studies Relating to Project
Bl. Rome, FAO Cooperative Program - Rapport de Preparation Projet de
D6veloppement Integre dans la Province Khemisset, March 1981.
B2. Kingdom of Morocco - MARA -  Situation Actuelle de la Zone du Projet
(November 1980).
B3. Kingdom of Morocco - MARA -  Propositions de D6veloppement (November
1980) 3 volumes.
B4. Kingdom of Morocco - MARA -  Enquate Douars (December 1979).
B5. Kingdom of Morocco - MARA -  Caracteristiques Generales des
Exploitations Agricoles (December 1979).
B6. Kingdom of Morocco - MARA -  Systeme de Culture - Typologie des Niveaux
Techniques (February 1980).
B7. Kingdom of Morocco - MARA -  Characteristiques Socio-Economiques (June
1980).
B8. Kingdom of Morocco - MARA -  Le Syst'eme d'Elevage (February 1980).
B9. Kingdom of Morocco - MARA -  Prix Unitaires et Techniques de
Developpement (November 1980).
C. Selected Working Papers
Annex I      Agriculture Development and research
Annex II      Fodder Production and Livestock
Annex III    Forestry Development



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
Annex IV     Social Infrastructure
Annex V      Education Development
Annex VI     Irrigation Development
Annex VII    Road Construction
Annex VIII   Soil Conservation and Erosion Control Program
Annex IX     Agricultural Extension
Annex X      Agricultural Training
Annex XI     Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex XII    Farm Budgets
Annex XIII   Project Cost Tables
Annex XIV    Prices, Marketing and Financial Analysis for Forestry Component
Annex XV     Economic Values of Input and Outputs
Annex XVI    Economic Analysis



- 59 -                                                     ANNEX III
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
OULMES ROkMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
PYO        I        PYI                 PY2         I        PY3        I        PY4        I        PY5
6/82      1/83                1/84                 1/85                1/86                1/87
Loan Signature                                        *
Loan Effectiveness                                             *
Project Management
Appointment of Pro. Man.                 done
Establishment of PMU                  Bef. Effect.
Equipping PMU
Full Staffing of PMU                                     Bef. 12/31/83 *
Mon. & Eval. Agric. Economist                          Bef. 9/30/83 *
Agriculture Component
Constr. + Equip. of CTs                         Constr. + Equip.                   Equip.
Tiflet Pre-Service            Const+Equip_
Tiflet Pre-Service Courses                               1                  2
In-Service Training
First Batch
Pilot Farm Program                                                 Second Batch
Third Batch
Radio
Radio + film Contracts                 Film
Mid-Term Review
Extension,
Training,                         12 m.m.                                                       3 m.m.   (for Mid-Term Review)
Tech. Assist.  Audio-Visual
Forage                                               5 m.m.
M + Eval.                                                       2 m.m.
Livestock +
Sylvo-Pastoral Component
Construction + Equipment
Sylvo-Pastoral Nursery
Cork Oak Range Impl.                                         150 ha             1,000 ha            1,250 ha             1,800 ha            1,800 ha
Holm Oak Range Impl.                                         375 ha               500 ha              625 ha               750 ha              750 ha
Open Range Impl.                                             250 ha               330 ha              420 ha               500 ha              500 ha
Shrub Planting                                               125 ha               170 ha              205 ha               250 ha              250 ha
Ram Outbreeding Program
Appoint. Range Man. Officer: TA                       Bef. 9/30/83 *                24 m.m.
Irrigation Compondnt
Formation of ASAPs (Ist set)                    Bef. 6/30/83 *
New Perimeters (excl. Plat. d'Oulmes)                                             200 ha              250 ha
Rehabilited Perimeters                                                             50 ha               65 ha
Feasibility Studies
Forestry Component
Construction + Equipment                                         Constr. + Equip.                     Equip.
Forestry Nursery
Submit Studies           Ungravelled         20 km               40 km               60 km
for 1st Year at                *
Forest Roads   Negotiations                  Gravelled                            10 km               20 km
Firebreaks           10 km           10 km               10 km                10 km               10 km
DRS Olives                                                    25 ha               75 ha               100 ha              100 ha              100 ha
DRS Cereals                                                  100 ha              400 ha              500 ha               500 ha              500 ha
Bunds, Wattles, Gulleys, Culverts                            125 -ha             525 ha              650 ha               650 ha              650 ha
Production Plantations                                     1,100 ha            1,600 ha            1,600 ha             1,600 ha            2,100 ha
Protection Plantations                                       400 ha              800 ha              800 ha             1,000 ha            1,000 ha
Tech. Assist. Cork Oak                                                                    4 m.m.
Harcha. Study    Submit at Negotiat.            *
Other Forest. Man. Studies                                                        I                    1                   1                    I



- 60 -                                                        ANNEX III
Page 2
KINGDOM o? MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF TNE
OULMES ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
PY                 pyl        I        PY2                PY3                 F PY4      I        PY5
6/82      1/83               1/84                1/85               1/86                1/87
Research Component
1st Year Program    submit at
negotiations            *
Construct. + Equip.                                           Const. + Equip.                      Equip.
Tech. Assist.                                              1 m.m.             1 m.m.              1 m.m.
Cadastral Survey
Rural Roads
Final Design  Oulms-       Submit at
Touiza       Negotiations   *
Construction                                                 8 km             30 km               34 km              34 km
Maintenance                                                                  300 km              300 km             300 km              300 km
Social Infrastructure
Construction
Water Supplies                                                  Study
Construction                                      _
Market Development                                              Study
Construction
Sanitation                                                      Study
Construction
Flood Control                                                                      Study
Construction
Power                                                                               Study
Street Paving                                                                                Construction
Education Component
Permanent Classrooms + Equip.                                27                                     9                   10                 7
Prefab. Classrooms + Equip.                                  25                 29                 27                   12                 8
Teachers' Houses                                              8                 10                  9                    4                 3



---                         -                      r - r                                                                                         IBRD 16473
6"45'                    S                     30                                             5                      S                      S  S    00    0    PORTL   C;A F Q I ANKl NF 1982
KINGDOM  OF MOROCCO C.                                                                                                                                                   GIERALTAR
OULMES- ROMMANI AGRICULTURE  A                                                                                                                                  -Roeot
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INFRASTRUCTURE  AND   PROJECT  WORKS                                                 z     .,, ;<                                                                                        ALGERIA
S~~~              ~      ~~~~ Isjl fg~ ,.':     /Jtmpa,/de &ono                ~      '      j/ 'r   .                                     1 rK,.*
CK OMFTERS                                                                                                                                 ---I -.
\,  ) \iALTANA                            MALI
LL
Wp{dStebssr@f/e                                                                                      xc#usivel{for AR , , .I  AA E K-  N    -
'.5,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
EN-A
,e                        H-esonfowelc, PRINCE (DRt nn.eM~rfrht~ 'Si   _  dR X  srch,-,F
KHENFKEMISE
/>dgmalh t b  thd legf-d1o /                                                                  Ieeo -s  t                                                      P     N -.        <       NI A
b aep~~~~~~~~~~~~~LtaneRosuc nldas\! , x1-o                                                        I   DSI  A,v et Alounais> \   2    LLf
b45                                           fs 30                                         h1 5 potC    _e                               b                          V R do ,  fLIA A        E
-  lh~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1~~~~~~~g'l -1., ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~        Rot                                    A                           1     - 
to.. K55                                         HOUR 5000(WeAA
6-45  30'                                     6~~~~~~~~~~ 15'                                                   bET-AT~~~~~~~C-






IBRD 16474
r   6-45'                                                        b'30                             ,                           b15                                                          6^00                                        PORTLGL<  PI          JX4E 1982
KINGDOM  OF MOROCCO                                                         ,        .GIBRALtAR
OULNMES - RON\MANI AGR ICU LTU RE  otr 3,   fovt3ntlt
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                         <          1''i                               WS-%
K ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~R LOME                                                                                              OF LR         =L 
Wo/ldEtP>nt S breFtt@PFPtCdbYthC A fi A I_ C M / PIJV ncim Boundurles _ ._ ndc les Th tt rr tOrt oi the \ A ( ITAN A
rh. c pnvenenns af Shs r.deG ne  yO    8 S  \ ;_t  i h t 18 . . JEs f wti< >i,-r;                           I Western Saharo )                          r      2        \  )    k          5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N A 
tEle/ po(tuwh IllE,$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YtdldMoa.ht S1E  /BN5_
.mZddne 41w  ntw  a                    -<        on           t ,  *51AN)                                                                                                                                                       jRm   i                    hE'E
dvluo! napay. 087 the paltof Shc   is X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~', ,2  _ ._ Sg            g~~~~~~~~45
W  d d t k trz(f es hff ates. hn   | W  \, L h  y                                                                                                                                    )              \    . _@ulmes   S 
'@Yl8wtStttYCtPzo,7v>Ccf,,/b U9emdh <{ 7 y K H OU R I BGA kArt- j' 4 t /~~~~~~~'~
645 h30 btlS 6>00 _ fH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oJI- KrrR



