Document of                             f     co.
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3413-MOR
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN
OULMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                        Dirham (DH)
US$                                  DH 5.50
DH                                   US$0.182
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CNCA                National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole)
DPA                 Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
(Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture)
INRA                National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut National de la Recherche Agricole)
MARA                Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la R6forme Agraire)
PMU                 Project Management Unit
NPCC                National Project Coordinating Committee
PCC                 Provincial Coordinating Committee
SMS                 Subject Matter Specialist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Oulmes Rommani Agricultural Development Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;                         The Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:                           US$30 million including the capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:                             17 years, including four years of grace, at
variable interest rates.
Project Objectives
and Description:              The project aims at improving the living
standards of the predominantly rural
population living within the administrative
areas of Oulmes and Rommani in the Khemisset
province through development of agriculture,
livestock and forestry and through provision
of better social and agricultural services.
Livestock development operations would focus
on animal health, genetic improvement and
fodder production. The forestry component
would include the establishment of forestry
plantations and the introduction of better
management and harvesting techniques. At the
farm level, the project would introduce
improved crop production techniques and
encourage the use of modern inputs while
altering the land-use system. The project
does not face any unusual risks, but
realization of the expected benefits depends
on the acceptance by the beneficiaries of the
proposed agricultural packages and on their
willingness to accept the proposed range
management and irrigation regulations. This
risk is considered relatively small since
similar measures have been successful in
other projects in Morocco. The effect of a
drought is an important risk which has been
minimized through the introduction of
drought-resistant crop varieties. Risks
associated with delays in project
implementation are considered small since
steps have been taken to deal with the most
recurrent causes for implementation delays.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Project Cost Estimates                         Local    Foreign    Total
… …(US$ Million)------
Agricultural development                     5.0        1.7        6.7
Livestock production and
range management                       4.7         2.7        7.4
Irrigation infrastructure                    1.5        0.6        2.1
On-farm investments                          5.1        2.0        7.1
Incremental inputs                           6.2        4.1       10.3
Forest development                           8.9        6.1       15.0
Research                                     1.9        0.8        2.7
Cadastral survey                             2.0        1.2        3.2
Rural roads                                  3.0        2.7        5.7
Social infrastructure                        4.4        2.6        7.0
School and health buildings                  2.6        1.8        4.4
Studies, training and
technical assistance                   0.9         1.1       2.0
Total Base Cost                       46.2       27.4        73.6
Physical contingencies                       4.7        3.1        7.8
Price contingencies                         16.1        7.5       23.6
Total Project Cost                    67.0        38.0      105.0  1/
Front-end fee on Bank loan                 ---          0.5        0.5
Total Required Financing                    67.0       38.5      105.5
Financing Plan                                  Local    Foreign   Total
IBRD                                             -         30.0       30.0
Government                                      52.0         -        52.0
CNCA (Nat. Agri. Cred. Bank)                     4.8        8.5       13.3
Beneficiaries                                   10.2        -          10.2
Total                                       67.0       38.5      105.5  1/
Estimated disbursements:    ---------------------US$ Million--------------
Fiscal year               1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Annual                      1.6    2.5    4.9    5.8    9.3    4.9    1.0
Cumulative                 1.6    4.1    9.0   14.8   24.1   29.0   30.0
Economic Rate of Return:                           14%
Appraisal Report:                                  Staff Appraisal Report No.4065
dated November 12, 1982
1/ Includes $23.7 million for taxes.



INTERNAT(IONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
OULMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Government of Morocco for the equivalent of US$30 million,
including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance an Oulmes-Rommani
Agricultural Development Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, at variable interest rates.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to
the Executive Directors in December 1980. A mission to review Morocco's
Public Sector Investment Program for 1981-85 was in the field in December
1981. Another economic mission on industrial incentives and export
promotion was in Morocco in September 1982. Country and Economic Data
Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed
with natural resources. Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key
export sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc
are also exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants
satisfy only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco
has some uranium and oil shale resources which could become significant
energy sources in the long term. There are moreover preliminary
indications of natural gas reserves. Morocco has also a relatively good
agricultural potential. In addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has
favored trade, tourism and labor migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a
conservative approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP
increased at an average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. However, a
relatively weak savings effort and conservative external borrowing policies
permitted only a slow rise in the share of resources allocated to
investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s with no major financial
imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity. Although some
industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor force was
employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural sector, and
primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise exports, with
phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.



-2
Economic Expansion in the mid-1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious, and the
original 1973-77 Development Plan strategy stressed an intensified savings
effort and development of exports. In 1974, with the sudden jump in
phosphate prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled, and
although the petroleum import bill also quadrupled in 1974, the current
account of the balance of payments remained in surplus. The plan's concern
for exports and savings lost some of its urgency. The Government launched
a massive public investment program which brought about a sharp
acceleration in the rate of growth of the economy, and GDP grew at the rate
of 6.7% per year between 1973-1977. The expansion of the investment
program also led to a considerable increase in demand for imported goods
and services, whose share in GDP doubled from 19% in 1972 to 37% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling in both volume and value already by mid-1975. Phosphate
prices continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well
as for tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the
world recession. Agricultural production and exports entered a period of
prolonged stagnation and Morocco turned from a net exporter to a net
importer of foodstuffs. As a result of all these factors, the growth of
exports of goods and nonfactor services, which in constant prices had
exceeded 8% a year in 1968-72, averaged only 1% a year in 1973-77.
7.       Accelerated investment, growing public expenditures, and
particularly increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in
Western Sahara, created strong pressures on both the balance of payments
and the Government budget. While investment jumped from about 15% of GDP
in the early 1970s to 32% in 1977, gross domestic savings rose briefly from
15% of GDP in 1972 to 20% of GDP in 1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but
fell back to 10-12% in 1976-77. The large resource gap which emerged as
early as 1975 rose to an unsustainable 20% of GDP in 1977 (in current
prices). To help finance the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the
international capital market, which led to rapid increases in external debt
and the debt service burden. The debt service ratio rose from 5.6% of
exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7% in 1977.
8.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and
of the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 22%
of GDP in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues.
Budgetary outlays rose from 19% of GDP in 1972 to 39% in 1977. As a
result, the Government's overall budget deficit increased sharply, reaching
peaks of 18% of GDP in 1976 and 1977.
-Stabilization Program 1978-1980
9.       In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import
levels. In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was



cut back by nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary
expenditure held down to 3% (in real terms). These measures of fiscal
restraint were combined with tight credit policies and stringent import
controls. As a result, the overall budget deficit declined to about 10% of
GDP and the external payments situation improved in 1978. Later, however,
the stabilization program encountered a number of obstacles, including poor
harvests, petroleum price increases and the rise in interest on the
commercial debt. In addition, internal pressures led to some relaxation of
the highly restrictive fiscal policy adopted in 1978. By 1980 both fiscal
and external imbalances were still substantial: the resource gap (in
current prices) remained at about 11% of GDP, and the ratio of the overall
budget deficit to GDP at about 12%.
10.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period
was achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary
investments, which dropped from 27% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The
growth of current expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the
continuing need to maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing
interest payments on the public debt and the rising cost of consumption
subsidies. The latter tripled in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price
increases for subsidized staple food and petroleum products could not catch
up with the rise in import costs for these products. Reflecting these
pressures, the growth of current expenditure reached 27% in 1980 and their
share of GDP represented 22%.
11.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction
in capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977
and 1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due
to price and volume increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and
received a significant boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in
1980. Thus, despite a large increase in the petroleum import bill and a
rise in external debt interest payments, the current account deficit before
grants was reduced from *1.8 billion, or 17% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4
billion, or 8% of GDP, in 1980.
12.      The adverse impact of the stabilization program on employment has
probably been substantial in contrast with the rapid rate of employment
creation during 1973-77. On the whole, the policies followed since 1978
have had a high cost in terms of growth and employment and appear to have
been only partly successful in their short-term stabilization objectives.
Recent Developments
13.      In 1981, the economy was submitted again to strong external
shocks: a substantial increase of imports of cereals, following a drought
which reduced agricultural value added by about 23% in real terms; a large
appreciation of the US dollar; and a rise in foreign interest rates, which
further increased the cost of debt service. In addition, the financial
cost of the Saharan conflict appears to have increased during the year. As
a result of these factors, economic and financial performance worsened.
Gross domestic product fell by 1.3% in real terms. Despite a 17% increase
in current Treasury revenue, the overall Treasury deficit reached 14% of



-4-
GDP in 1981, as current expenditures increased by 23%. The continuing
pressure on the balance of payments from fast-rising debt service payments
and growing oil import costs was intensified by the increase in cereal
imports. Moreover, capital equipment imports began to rise again after
three years of negative growth. As a consequence, the current account
deficit reached $1.9 billion in 1981 (12.6% of GDP), and the debt service
ratio 32.7% of goods and services.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The initial development strategy in the 1981-85 Plan period was to
reach a high rate of GDP growth (6.5%), needed to obtain an acceleration of
employment creation and a strengthening of Government programs for social
and regional development. The Plan projection was, however, too ambitious
and although the financial constraint should lessen somewhat in 1982 as the
economy recovers from the 1981 drought, Morocco's external financial
situation will remain difficult in 1982-85 and will continue to constrain
GDP growth.
15.      Bank projections for the 1981-85 Plan period are based on the
assumption that exports of goods and non-factor services could grow by 5.8%
in real terms, while imports of goods and non-factor services would be
allowed to rise by no more than 0.5% p.a. in real terms, as the need for
food imports is expected to diminish, the increase in capital goods and oil
imports to slow down, and payments for military equipment to be lower.
Moreover, the growth in investment expenditures would not exceed 3.1% p.a.
in real terms. Given these assumptions, domestic savings could recover
from the abnormally low 1981 level (7.8% of GDP) to reach 12.5 % of GDP in
1985, the resource gap would gradually decline from 13.3% of GDP in 1981 to
7.5% in 1985, while GDP could still grow at about 4.5% p.a. in real terms
or just over 1% per capita.
16.      The projected export growth would result from an increase (in real
terms) of 6.6% in phosphate and phosphate based products and 9.5% p.a. in
manufactured products between 1981-85. Such a performance would depend
upon identification of new markets and could be accomplished only if high
priority is given to export promotion. In the case of finished and
intermediate products, the extent to which the projected increase in
exports would materialize depends on the revision of incentives granted to
exporters, the diversification of Moroccan exports towards non-traditional
exports and new markets, and the appropriate level of the exchange rate.
17.      A sustained reduction of the trade gap will be difficult to
achieve unless growth of merchandise imports is drastically curtailed.
This would require not only a higher increase in agricultural output so
that the level of food imports would decline in real terms, but also an
effective domestic pricing policy so as to limit the growth of oil import
(assumed at 1.3% p.a.) from 1981 to 1985. It would require moreover a
reduction of the capital goods imports growth to 1.8% p.a. in 1981-85
through cuts in Treasury civilian investment with respect to the level
planned in the 1981-85 Plan, and a revision of the various investment codes
so as to reduce financial incentives to import capital goods.



18.      In view of the projected stagnation in per capita household
incomes, any significant increase in domestic savings would mainly come
from substantial improvements in Government savings performance. As part
of the 1982 stand-by arrangement between Morocco and the IMF, several
measures and reductions in real Government expenditures were implemented in
1982. Under this program, additional progress is to be made in formulating
"development contracts" between selected public enterprises and their
supervising ministries, so as to specify development objectives and clarify
financial relationships between public enterprises and the Government. As
a result of these measures, as well as increases in interest rates paid on
savings accounts (by 1.5 percentage points in 1982) and other forms of
savings, domestic savings generated by the public enterprise and household
sectors could also rise in 1982-85.
19.      Given the strong constraints on investment levels, the future rate
of growth of the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral
allocation and the efficiency of investment. In conformity with the Plan
objectives, the Government should start fewer large capital-intensive
projects and restrict the allocation of investments to priority
subsectors.   Priority is to be given to projects that are export oriented,
less capital intensive and which use a greater proportion of domestic
resources. In addition, particular attention will have to be paid by the
Government to manpower planning and to the employment effect of investments
in order to prevent unemployment from rising.
Social Development
20.      Social expenditures have been at a high level in recent years,
accounting for more than half of current outlays. However, social
indicators still appear to be at a relatively low level in Morocco. The
limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the lower income
groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as a major
issue, and the strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes rural
development in rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in
Morocco currently live, and the need to improve mechanisms for delivering
services to meet basic needs at an affordable cost, especially in rural
areas. An effort is also being made to increase the involvement of local
communities in providing basic needs, particularly for low cost housing,
water supply, sewerage and electrification. Although rapid results cannot
be expected in any of these areas, implementation of these policies would
help meet the needs of low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary
cost of social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
21.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly
all of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also
drew on the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained
about $70 million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. In October
1980, the International Monetary Fund approved an extended arrangement for
a three-year period in the amount of SDR 810 million in support of a medium
term program of financial adjustment. This arrangement was interrupted in
1981 when it appeared that the assumptions and targets of the EFF program



-  6  -
were no longer possible. It was replaced in 1982 by a stand-by arrangement
in the amount of SDR 281 million and purchase of SDR 236 million under the
Compensatory Financing Facility. The 1982 financial program, which is
being supported by the present standby arrangement, seeks to reduce the
deficit in the current account of the balance of payments (excluding
grants) to 10% of GDP and to decrease the overall Treasury deficit by
one-third to 8% of GDP. Other major elements of the program include an
upward revision of the interest rate structure, restraint in overall credit
and monetary expansion, further trade liberalization, and progress with
respect to both tax reform and reform of the state enterprises.
22.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose
rapidly to $8.4 billion (disbursed only) by December 1981. Gross inflow of
medium and long term capital reached $1.8 billion in 1981. Debt service
amounted to $800 million in 1979, $1.2 billion in 1980 and $1.3 billion in
1981 (22%, 28%, and 32.7% respectively, of total exports of goods and
services). Debt service rose considerably in 1980 due mainly to the steep
rise in interest on commercial credits. As a result of recent and
projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to average $1.8 billion
annually during 1982-85. Because of the growing burden of debt service,
external borrowing has become more restrictive and selective since 1978.
If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government will have to continue
this policy over the next few years while taking special measures to expand
exports.
23.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources
to Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1368 million in 1978. In
1979-80 they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). In
1981 they are estimated at $1759 million. Major sources of aid were
France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At
the end of 1981, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and
disbursed external public debt was 7.5%. The share of the Bank Group in
debt service was 21% in 1976 and declined to 15% in 1977, and 7% in 1981.
by 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and'in debt service are
projected at about 10 and 11% respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
24.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 58 projects,
financing a total of $1,958.5 million (net of cancellations), of which
$1,134.5 million has been lent since the beginning of FY1978. IDA credits,
totalling $50 million, have been made available for five projects. A Third
Window loan for $25 million for the third education project was approved in
March 1976. IFC investments have amounted to $61.6 million ($42.7 million
after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA
projects. In some cases delays in project implementation have been caused
by management problems and budgetary constraints; however, overall
performance in project execution is satisfactory, although disbursements
lag behind other countries in the region.



25.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 28 per cent and 26 per
cent, respectively of total commitments; the balance is represented by
utilities (16 per cent), tourism (9 per cent), education (8 per cent), roads
(6 per cent), energy (4 per cent) and urban development (3 per cent). The
main objectives of Bank lending in previous years were to foster and
strengthen development institutions and to increase productive capacity, in
order to improve the balance of payments. While these objectives remain,
Bank lending in recent years has increasingly focussed on supporting a
number of policy objectives; to promote exports and other foreign-exchange
earning activities; to reduce the growth of imports, particularly of food
and energy; to lower unit costs for the delivery of basic services, widen
their distribution among regions and increase access by lower-income groups;
and to increase employment and improve income distribution.
26.      Since FY75, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in
the productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, whicb employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The Meknes and
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Projects address this objective in the favorable
cereal producing zone. The Loukkos, Middle Atlas and Forestry projects and
the now proposed project extend support to less favorably endowed regions.
Four lines of credit to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) have
helped provide credit to farmers, and a fifth project is under
preparation.   Increased export earnings are expected to result from the
Bank-supported project for vegetable marketing and production, as well as
from a project currently under preparation to improve the efficiency of the
coastal fishing industry.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings have been the key
objectives of Bank projects in industry, mining and tourism and led to nine
lines of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
(BNDE) for industrial projects and four lines of credit to Credit Immobilier
et H8telier (CIH) for tourism projects. A project to increase mineral
export earnings and raise the incomes of small-scale miners in southeastern
Morocco was approved by the Board in FY82. A project aimed at developing
the electromechanical industry is being prepared.
28.      Projects in basic infrastructure and services have concentrated on
improving the efficiency of existing investments and extending services to
rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban development project aims
at supporting the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic services
and employment to low-income urban families. A third highway project
supports the Government's road maintenance efforts and a fourth project now
being prepared would continue this effort and improve rural access roads. A
loan for village electrification is helping bring power to over a hundred
small towns and villages, and a third water supply project is providing
access to safe water in small towns and semi-rural areas. A project aimed
at strengthening the Communal Infrastructure Fund's (FEC) capacity to
support local communities is being prepared.



-  8  -
29.      Five education projects have focussed on secondary level technical
education and teacher training, on expanding basic education in the rural
areas and on ensuring a greater orientation in primary schooling towards
practical training. A sector study is now under preparation which will
constitute a basis for determining the orientation of future lending.
30.      In order to reduce Morocco's dependence on oil imports, the
Government has made considerable efforts to develop national resources,
notably of gas and oil shale. These efforts are being supported by the Bank
through a gas exploration project and an engineering project aimed at studying
the viability of developing the country's oil shale resources. Additional
projects for development of possible gas resources, as well as coal and
hydropower, are under consideration.
31.      Morocco's disbursement performance, although an improvement was
registered in FY82, continues to lag behind the regional average. The
disbursement shortfall is most acute for a few projects in new sectors, due
mainly to institutional or project management problems. These cases are being
closely monitored and implementation schedules have been established,
specifying critical actions, in agreement with the Government. In the case of
certain projects, notably in agriculture, water supply and highways,
implementing agencies have been slow in submitting disbursement requests to
the Ministry of Finance for transmittal to the Bank. We have drawn the
Government's attention to the need to resolve this problem. Finally, the rate
of disbursement has to some extent been affected by the appreciation of the
dollar against other currencies.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR 1/
32.      Agricultural Sector Background.  About 60 percent of Morocco's
population of 20 million lives in rural areas. Since 1970, population growth
in the rural sector has averaged 1.8 percent per annum compared with 2.8
percent growth overall, reflecting rural-urban migration. In 1979,
agriculture contributed about 13 percent of GDP, employed about 40 percent of
the labor force, and accounted for about 33 percent of total exports -- a
decline from figures for the early 1970s largely as a result of increased
phosphate production and exports. Arable land covers some 6.7 million ha
while a further 20 million ha cover semi-arid or mountain regions suitable for
grazing and forestry. About 5.8 million ha are cultivated each year, with 4.6
million in cereals, 500,000 in pulses, 400,000 in fruit trees, 140,000 in
vegetables, 60,000 in sugar beet, and the remainder in oilseeds, cotton and
forage crops. Most of Morocco's rainfed areas are characterized by
traditional agricultural practices which result in low crop yields and low
livestock productivity. Permanent irrigation covers about 800,000 ha.
33.      Since 1965 the value of agricultural output has grown on average by
2.4 percent per annum in constant prices, with wide annual fluctuations due to
climatic variations. Growth was below the increase in demand for foodstuffs
1/ This part is substantially similar to Part III for Loan 2082-MOR - Middle
Atlas Agricultural Development Project.



caused by income and population growth. As a result, the value of food
imports increased on an average of 21 percent annually, while the value of
food exports grew at 6 percent per annum. Growth of output has been greatest
for products for which the introduction of modern farming techniques has been
made possible by adaptive research and appropriate extension efforts, and
producer prices set at attractive levels:  sugar beet, sugar cane, milk and
vegetables. For other crops such as cereals and pulses the Government has not
yet been successful in modernizing farming practices. Regarding forestry
products, although cork and pulp are exported, industrial timber production
only accounts for 25 percent of the domestic market.
34.      The Government's objectives in agriculture are:  (i) to restore a
high degree of self-sufficiency in basic foodstuffs and optimize agriculture's
contribution to the balance of payments by fostering export and import
substituting production; and (ii) to reduce regional income disparities and
improve living conditions of the poorer segments of the rural population by
increasing their productivity and generating employment opportunities. In
order to achieve these objectives, the Government recognizes the need to
allocate a larger share of Government resources to support rainfed agriculture
and extensive livestock activities. The investment program in agriculture
under the Five-year Plan 1981-85 reflects this strategy, where agriculture is
allocated 22 percent of total investments, against 18 percent in the 1978-1980
Plan. Within the sector, the share of large irrigation schemes falls from 61
to 40 percent, while that of rainfed agricultural development increases from 2
to 18 percent, of small-scale irrigation from 3 to 8 percent, of livestock
development from 4 to 11 percent and of forestry from 4 to 8 percent. The
proposed lending of the Caisse Nationale du Credit Agricole for 1981-82
amounts to DH 11 billion which also constitutes a substantial increase over
previous years.
35.      Agricultural Sector Issues.  About 45 percent of farm families are
close to or below the estimated absolute rural poverty threshold ($270 per
capita in 1980). Despite a rise in the real average rural per capita income
in recent years, there is evidence that population pressures have led to a
decline in per capita income in mountain, forest, and arid areas. Over the
last five years, and mostly through investments in hitherto neglected areas,
the Government has increasingly sought to reach the rural poor through
integrated agricultural projects.
36.      Livestock is a major activity, contributing about 36 percent to
agricultural GDP, for small farmers both as a source of protein and of
income: about 63 percent of cattle and 46 percent of sheep are owned by the
landless and farmers with less than 5 ha of land. Morocco has a long
tradition of extensive livestock raising on range and forest lands totalling
some 20 million ha, belonging to the State or collectively owned and grazed.
It is estimated that these lands produce about one half of the feed units
consumed. However, livestock yields are low and declining due to overgrazing,
the absence of range management and poor animal husbandry. The Government has
recognized the need to reverse these trends and to attach a higher priority to
develop the potential of fodder production and management of grazing lands as
well as improving the genetic breed and animal health and management.



- 10 -
37.      Morocco's natural forests are extensive, covering some 7.7 million
ha.  In addition to the timber and firewood they provide, these forests
provide forage material that plays a major complementary role to the range in
sustaining livestock. However, natural forests are being rapidly degraded as
population pressures drive the local population to seek additional cultivable
and grazing lands. On the other hand, productive forests are not being
exploited to their potential, mainly for lack of management plans and
investments, so Morocco has to import a substantial share of its domestic
consumption of wood and wood products. The greater emphasis given to forestry
investments under the Plan, and the sylvo-pastoral strategy tested under the
proposed project, should help address these issues.
38.      The present research and extension services constitute serious
obstacle to agricultural development.  Agricultural research has developed
with little attention given to farm profitability and practical problems.
Budget allocations have been low and research carried out in the various
centers has been poorly coordinated. In order to improve coordination and
execution of agricultural research, the Government recently created a National
Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), and in the last Plan increased
allocations for research. As a first step to strengthen INRA and to define
research policies and priorities, the Government is preparing a Research
Master Plan with assistance from the Bank. Agricultural extension services
are also inefficient, largely due to poor organization, training and
experience, inadequate equipment and low staff morale. The project would
endeavour to develop and test an extension approach to rainfed areas,
including closer coordination between extension and research work, which could
be used as a model in the Extension Master Plan presently also being prepared
with Bank assistance. It is expected that both the Research and Extension
Master Plans will be ready by the end of 1983.
39.      Land distribution is relatively skewed:  about 75 percent of farm
families own 5 ha or less, accounting for 25 percent of agricultural land.
These farms are for the most part below an economically viable size and suffer
from excessive fragmentation: Morocco's 1.9 million farms are divided into
11.6 million parcels. Absentee landlords and tenancy arrangements afford
tenants little security and consequently no incentive to improve the land.
With few exceptions, tenants are also ineligible to receive agricultural
credit. A number of land reform measures are currently under study or being
carried out on an experimental basis, within the framework of Bank-supported
operations and elsewhere. In this context, the Government attaches high
priority to the execution of a national cadastral survey of all agricultural
lands as a basis for a land register. A first tranche is being financed under
the Bank-supported Loukkos project, and the proposed project would finance a
tranche covering the project area. In the longer run, land tenure patterns
will have to be rationalized to a greater degree and inheritance laws modified
if substantial gains in productivity are to be achieved.
40.      Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy.  Over recent years, the Bank's
strategy in the agricultural sector has supported the Government's objectives
of increasing agricultural production wherever economically justified to meet



- 11 -
the food needs of the population while placing, for economic and social
reasons, an increased emphasis on developing rainfed areas, where a large
untapped potential exists. Support for irrigation, particularly for
rehabilitation and development of small and medium scale irrigation
infrastructure, is also envisaged. The Bank strategy also recognizes the need
to continue supporting export-oriented projects and agricultural credit which
finances a large percentage of directly productive farm investments.
41.      Performance Under Previous Bank Financed Agricultural Projects.  Bank
Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to date 16 projects
have been undertaken and supported by $561.5 million in Bank/IDA funds ($24
million in IDA credits). They include five irrigation projects: Sidi Slimane
(FY65), Sebou I (FY70), Souss Groundwater (FY75), and Doukkala I (FY76), all
completed, and Doukkala II (FY77); four Agricultural Credit Projects (FY66,
FY73, FY77 and FY79) three of which are completed; an Agroindustries and Flood
Control Project (Sebou II, FY74); a Vegetable Production and Marketing Project
(FY80); four Agricultural Development Projects focussing on rainfed
agriculture in the Meknes (FY75), Fes-Karia-Tissa (FY78) Loukkos (FY80) and
Middle Atlas (FY82) areas; and a Forestry Project (FY82). Project performance
to date is generally satisfactory, although irrigation projects suffered
initially from poor coordination between and within participating Ministries,
which resulted in delays in construction and in acquisition of irrigation
equipment. A major issue has been inadequate cost-recovery, but a recently
announced phased increase in irrigation water charges by about 100 per cent
should when fully implemented contribute to its satisfactory solution. A
Performance Audit Report has been prepared for the Sebou I Project and a
Completion Report for the Doukkala I Irrigation Project. In the case of
Sebou I, the report stresses the project's success in institution building as
well as in increasing production through the provision of adequate
infrastructure. It also highlights the importance of successful extension,
timely allocation of funds, and collection of water charges. In the case of
Doukkala I, the project was successfully completed and the rate of return
exceeded appraisal estimates. Both projects were also successful in
eliminating land fragmentation, thus facilitating the introduction of improved
cropping systems. Among rainfed agriculture projects, which are mostly still
at an early stage of execution, implementation has also been satisfactory so
far, with the exception of the Meknes Project which has encountered very
substantial delays. The major issue has been difficulties in establishing the
land consolidation and redistribution program, this being the first time
these measures have been attempted in a rainfed area in Morocco. This has now
been overcome and the implementation of the consolidation program is underway
with substantial support of the population.
42.      Performance audits have been prepared for the First, Second and Third
Agricultural Credit Projects. The report on the first project attributed the
project's mixed results principally to the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA) shortage of qualified staff and Government's interference in
CNCA's operations. On the other hand, the most important achievement was the
institutional development that took place. The Audit Report on the Second
Agricultural Credit Project, estimated an economic rate of return to the
project of about 20 percent as compared to an appraisal estimate



-  12  -
of 18 percent. However, it noted that the return might have been higher had
Morocco enjoyed a more effective national agricultural extension service.
OED's report on the Third Agricultural Credit Project mainly noted CNCA's
institutional progress and achievements.
43.      Technical and institutional lessons learned from these projects have
been taken into account in preparing the proposed project. The close
involvement of Moroccan authorities in project preparation, the early
nominations of key personnel, and the finalization of first year design and
workplans should all contribute to reducing early delays in project
implementation. Project management problems would be reduced by the
dovetailing of project management structures into the existing structure of
support services, the early involvement of local authorities in design and
preparation work and the establishment of coordinating committees, which have
proved useful in other World Bank-assisted rainfed projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
44.      The project, which was identified by a joint Bank-FAO/CP mission in
1979, aims at increasing productivity by developing rainfed crops, livestock
and forestry production and improving social services in seven rural communes
within the "cercles" (administrative units) of Oulmes and Rommani in the
Khemisset province north-east of Rabat. The project area has relatively
favorable ecological conditions and it is expected that the living standards
of the predominantly rural population can be improved by strengthening
agricultural support services and socio-economic infrastructure. The project
was prepared by the Government in close cooperation with the FAO/CP and, after
appraisal in March 1982, negotiations were held in Washington in October 1982.
The Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Siraj Sani of the Prime Minister's
Office. A staff appraisal report (No.4065-MOR) is being circulated to the
Executive Directors separately, and key events, as well as special conditions,
are listed in Annex III.
45.      The project area, which covers almost 330,000 ha, has altitudes
ranging from 350m to 1,350m. The western and central areas are generally
lower with undulating hills and rainfall varying between 300 and 550mm per
year. The eastern part of the area is higher and cut in steep ravines, and the
yearly precipitation varies between 700 and 960mm. Average summer
temperatures go up to 40 degrees centigrade but temperatures in the higher
areas can fall below freezing, thus limiting the vegetative period and
precluding cultivation of irrigated crops during the winter months.
Approximately half of the project area is covered by partly degraded cork and
holm oak state forests and by some 4,000 ha of pine and eucalyptus
plantations. About 40 per cent of the total area is agricultural land, mostly
privately owned, on which the main crops are cereals and grain legumes.
Livestock depends mainly on farm stubble and fallow grazing and fodder
resources in the state forest. Surface water is limited and less than one
half of one per cent of the cultivated land is irrigated.



-  13  -
46.      The population in the project area numbers about 118,000 people of
which 100,000 are engaged in agriculture. The traditional farming system is
based on cereal/fallow rotation with most farmers having livestock (goats,
sheep, cattle). The area has some 11,500 farm holdings of which about 4,200
are small subsistence holdings of less than 4 ha and about 7,000 are small to
medium size, between 5 and 30 ha. With an average family size of 5.5 people,
there are more families in the area than farm-holdings and many small farmers
supplement their incomes by working as laborers on larger farms. An important
obstacle to increased productivity is, as in the rest of the country, that
much of the privately owned land is heavily fragmented and unregistered.
47.      Production in the area is low mainly due to the low level of support
services. Poor seeds, inadequate supplies of fertilizer and generally poor
soil preparation have led to low average cereal (1.0 ton per ha) and grain
legume (0.8 ton per ha) yields. The more progressive farmers in the area,
however, obtain more than double these yields. Livestock resources (300,000
sheep, 80,000 goats and 50,000 cattle) producing meat, milk and wool have an
equally low productivity due to poor genetic potential, insufficient nutrition
and inadequate health services and husbandry. Finally, the forest, which
contains valuable supplies of cork, fuelwood, poles and sawlogs, is low
yielding due to inadequate management and over-grazing.
Project Objectives
48.      The main objective of the project is to improve the living standards
of the predominantly rural population living in Oulmes and Rommani by
increasing agricultural, livestock and forestry production and by providing
better social and agricultural services. The project would also seek to
increase round-wood production and to conserve the productive environment by
reducing soil erosion.
49.      The strategy proposed at the farm level envisages the introduction of
relatively simple, known and locally tested improved crop production
techniques, and the alteration of the land use system to reduce the surfaces
left fallow and increase fodder production. Livestock development would
concentrate on the introduction of animal health, genetic improvement and
fodder production on the farm and the range. Forest production would be
increased by introducing better harvesting and management techniques for
natural forests as well as forest plantation.
Project Description
50.      Crop development:  The project would provide for increased crop
production on some 80,000 ha of privately owned land by introducing technology
improvements, including better soil management techniques and by providing
agricultural inputs and credit for farm improvement. This effort would be
backed up by an effort to reorganize and strengthen the extension services and
applied research. Agricultural centers serving as focal points for provision
of support services at the local level would be reinforced and equipment,
vehicles and housing would be provided. Access to credit would be facilitated
by: lending based on the farmers' earning capacity, as has been done in the
Bank-supported Fez-Karia-Tissa project (rather than to their physical



- 14 -
assets); and expanding the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole's (CNCA)
infrastructure in the project area, including the recruitment of additional
loan officers and opening of new seasonal outlets. It is expected that the
acreage under grain legumes would increase from 18,000 to 24,000 ha and
on-farm production of fodder from 7,000 to 16,000 ha. The area under
cereals is not expected to increase but improved productivity should lead to
an increase in production by about 12 per cent. The project would also
finance destoning of 2,000 ha and land improvement on another 2,000 ha
presently covered by unpalatable shrubs, and provide for the development,
rehabilitation and extension of eleven traditional irrigation perimeters.
The irrigated area would be increased by about 600 ha.
51.      Livestock development:  Deficiencies in nutrition and animal
husbandry are the main impediments to better productivity of livestock. The
project would therefore develop fodder resources on the farm and on the
forest range. At the farm level, the area under fodder crops would be
increased and simple silage conservation techniques and hay treatment
methods would be introduced. Measures for animal health and genetic
improvement would include construction and staffing of five cattle and two
horse-breeding centers, restocking of the Oulmes cattle breeding station,
purchase of 500 sheep for genetic improvement, and the provision of 5 fixed
and 3 mobile dips, drugs and equipment. Credit for purchase of feed
concentrates, construction of sheep and cattle folds, and purchase of
improved rams, ewes and milk cows would be made available by CNCA. Finally
two milk collection centers would be constructed and the existing centers
improved.
52.      Forest development:  About 8,000 ha of commercial plantations (pine
and eucalyptus) would be established as would 4,000 ha of protection
plantations (pine and other species) aimed at restoring forest cover. Soil
protection and erosion control measures would be introduced on some 4,000 ha
and include planting of trees, and soil engineering works. Fire control
measures would include the establishment of 50 kms of firebreaks in natural
forests, and the construction of three fire towers. Sylvopastoral
operations aimed at increasing the quality and yields of timber cork and
fodder would be undertaken on 12,000 ha of indigenous forest and bushland,
divided into five separate blocks. Apart from thinning and pruning, these
operations, essentially based on existing management plans, would include
the development of the natural herbaceous forest cover, and the improvement
of natural grasslands, through reseeding and fertilizing of the range,
planting of forage shrub, as well as fencing. The success of this component
depends almost entirely on the willingness of livestock owners to respect
stocking rates and rotational grazing plans. It is therefore envisaged not
only to prepare careful socio-economic studies for the five different
blocks, but to ensure that formal agreement of the beneficiaries is obtained
on all organizational and technical arrangements and that the beneficiaries
have organized themselves in grazing associations before disbursements are
authorized against any of the five blocks (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, Part
4(c)). The study for the zone to be developed during the first year of the
project is almost completed.
53.      Infrastructure:  The project would provide for some infrastructure
improvement . Logging operations would be facilitated by the construction



-  15  -
of about 150 km of forest tracks and upgrading of 35 km of existing ones;
access to isolated areas would be improved by the upgrading of 88 km of
rural roads and the construction of a new 18 km road between Oulmes and
Touiza. About 400 km of rural roads and 800 km of forest tracks would be
maintained over the project period. To serve the herders and their animals,
61 water points would be constructed and water supply would be extended to
10 rural centers. The project would also finance the construction/
rehabilitation of 14 rural markets and some limited social infrastructure
including health, sanitation, flood control and electrification works.
Finally the project would finance the construction of 53 classrooms in seven
primary schools in permanent material and the provision of 101 prefabricated
classrooms, 33 teachers houses, furniture and classroom equipment. This
component, which aims at supporting the long-term development of the project
area, is covered by the Government's school building program.
54.      Technical assistance and studies.  The proposed project would
finance 50 man-months of technical assistance including a range management
expert who would assist with the early implementation of the forest range
component (over 24 man-months); and short term expertise in; oak management
and harvesting (4 man-months); monitoring and evaluation (2 man-months); and
applied research, agriculture and extension (20 man-months). The project
would also finance a 320,000 ha tranche of the national cadastral survey
covering the project area, ground water resources studies and some project
related preparatory studies.
Project Implementation
55.      The project would, under the overall supervision of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA), be implemented by the Provincial
Directorate of Agriculture (DPA) of Khemisset, except for the education
component which would be carried out by the provincial delegation of the
Ministry of Education, the road construction component which would be
implemented by the Ministry of Equipment, and the health component which
would be carried out by the Ministry of Health. The director of DPA would
be project manager and he would be assisted by a Project Management Unit
(PMU), which has already been established and which would be fully staffed
by September 30, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part 2(a)). The PMU
would inter alia include a deputy project manager, and six subject matter
specialists (SMS) covering rainfed crop production, range and farm
management, irrigation, training/extension, forage conservation and an
agricultural economist responsible for monitoring and evaluation. The PMU
would be responsible for day-to-day management, annual work programs, and
coordinating local authorities in execution of works. The project would be
implemented over five and a half years.
56.      Project coordination would be ensured through a National Project
Coordinating Committee (NPCC) to be chaired by the Secretary General of
MARA, and include relevant services from within the MARA and other
ministries, and organizations affected in the project such as CNCA and
INRA. The NPCC would ensure cooperation between ministries, resolve arising
issues, provide overall guidance on project orientation and approve annual
work plans. Coordination at the provincial level would be done by the



-  16  -
Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC) chaired by the Governor of Khemisset
with similar composition as the NPCC, in addition to which the local
communal councils would be represented.
57.      The key element for implementing the project would be the
strengthening and reorganization of the extension services around a group of
180 pilot farmers to which the extension agents would provide integrated
farm management advice regarding tillaging techniques, equipment, seeds and
fertilizers. While assisting the pilot farmers, the extension workers would
also establish close working relations with 30-40 farmers neighbouring a
pilot farm. At full development, some 6,000 farmers should thus be directly
or indirectly assisted. After an initial three-year experimental period, a
review will be undertaken of the experiences gained and in the light of the
work on the Extension Master Plan. The extension agents would be
backstopped by senior extensionists, the SMS and reinforced agricultural
centers. Irrigation extension advice on perimeter maintenance and water
management would be extended to about 1000 ha of irrigated land by extension
agents assisted by the irrigation SMS in the PMU. Mass extension would
complement the on-farm extension, over the radio and through films and slide
programs presented at the markets and in the agricultural centers. These
presentations would be made by an extension agent supported by an
audio-visual unit which would include an audio-visual technician and a
graphic artist who would, after having been selected at the latest by
September 30, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part 2(b)(i)) be sent for
overseas training. The project specific applied research program would be
carried out by INRA on the basis of proposals made by extension workers and
established in cooperation with PMHU, and following consultation with the
Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).   Extension agents, assisted by
research assistants, would eventually be responsible for disseminating the
results. Training of extension agents would be carried out at the Tiflet
Training Center where the agents would spend one year operating farms under
the same technical, ecological and financial constraints as a typical farmer
in the area. In-service refresher courses would also be provided throughout
the project period. The yearly training programs would be determined after
an excbange of views between the Government and the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04).
58.      The forestry component would be implemented by the Provincial
Forestry Services of the DPA according to existing management plans. For
100,000 ha of state forest land for which no plan has been prepared - since
they do not have enough commercial or environmental values to justify the
preparation of costly detailed inventories and survey work - simplified
plans would be prepared based on existing data, quick reconnaissance work
and the knowledge of existing forestry staff.   The sylvopastoral component
would be co-managed by the Provincial Forest and Livestock services through
combined technical teams operating under authority of DPA (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, Part 2(b)(iv)). The execution of these operations and training
of national staff would be assisted through the employment of a range
management expert for two years. This expert would take up his assignment
no later than September 30, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part
2(b)(iii)).



- 1 7 -
59.      Other arrangements worth particular mention include expansion of
CNCA's lending facilities in the area and modification of its lending
criteria to facilitate access to adequate credit for small farmers. The
implementation of the road and track rehabilitation programs would be
carried out by PMU with the assistance of two road brigades. A road
engineer would be recruited by September 30, 1983 to supervise the work of
the brigades, which would be fully staffed by December 31, 1983 (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, Part 2(b)(ii)). Construction of rural and forest
roads and tracks would be awarded to private contractors.
Project Cost and Financing
60.      Total project costs are detailed in the Loan and Project Summary
and are estimated at DH 577.3 million ($105.0 million), of which 36 per cent
or $38.0 million is in foreign exchange. Cost estimates include an
estimated DH 131.9 million ($23.7 million) of taxes and duties or 23 per
cent of total project costs. Estimates are based on actual prices obtained
during appraisal and updated to end-1982 prices. Physical contingencies
include 15 per cent for civil works and 10 per cent for equipment and
operating costs. Price escalation has been estimated at 11 per cent for
1983, 9 per cent for 1984 and 8 per cent thereafter for local costs, and at
8 per cent in 1983, 7.5 per cent in 1984, 7 per cent in 1985 and 6 per cent
thereafter for foreign costs. Contingencies amount to DH 172.6 million
(031.4 million) or 30 per cent of total costs and 43 per cent of baseline
costs. The average cost of consultants is estimated at $10,000 per
man-month including international travel, subsistence and overheads.
61.      The proposed Bank Loan of $30 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee, would cover 50 per cent of project cost net of taxes and of
on-farm investment costs since these are financed by credits provided by
CNCA, which already benefits from external financing, including loans from
the Bank, for this purpose. The Loan would be for 17 years with 4 years of
grace at variable interest rates. Remaining project costs would be provided
by the Government ($52.0 million), CNCA ($13.5 million) and the
beneficiaries ($10.2 million).
62.      Cost recovery.  Several arrangements have been made for cost
recovery. Under the forestry plantation component the overall cost recovery
coefficient is 53 per cent. The Government will bear establishment,
improvement and maintenance costs. Wood product sales proceeds would accrue
to the local communes which, however, have to pay certain administrative
fees amounting to some 8 per cent of the auction price to the Government.
Furthermore, a 10 per cent ad valorem tax will be added on to the auction
price and accrue to the National Forestry Fund. The local communes are
expected to contribute to operation, maintenance, and investment costs for
forest range improvement from their forest revenues and through the levying
of annual grazing fees (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06). As regards the
irrigated lands the beneficiaries would pay for all operations and
maintenance costs as well as a portion of the investment costs (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.05). To achieve this the beneficiaries would have to
be organized into irrigation associations, and accept a cost recovery



-  18  -
formula acceptable to the Bank as a condition of disbursement for each
irrigation perimeter (Loan Agreement, Schedule I, Part 4(b)). It is
expected that the level of recovery of investment costs would be between 30
and 40 percent. This would be reasonable considering the poverty level of
the beneficiaries.
Procurement and Disbursement
63.      Procurement will be carried out over 5 and a half years and involve
a large number of contracts. Contracts for construction of forest and rural
roads exceeding $2 million as well as contracts for purchase of equipment
and vehicles exceeding $200,000 would be awarded by ICB for an estimated
total of $13.3 million. Equipment and vehicle contracts would be bulked to
the extent practicable. Contracts for aerial photography and mapping for
the cadastral survey valued at a total of $2.7 million would be awarded
following ICB if the contracts exceed $300,000. Contracts for vehicles and
equipment not exceeding $200,000 and contracts for aerial photography and
mapping not exceeding $300,000 would be let following local competitive
bidding. In aggregate, these contracts would not exceed $900,000 and
t500,000, respectively. Civil works for forest plantations, destoning
operations, social infrastructure, offices, houses and other buildings,
breeding stations and milk collection centers would be spread out in space
and time and would individually be too small to attract foreign
contractors. All such contracts, totalling some $40 million, would be
awarded following local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank, as would contracts for forest and rural roads of
less than $2 million. Sufficient local and foreign firms are established in
Morocco to ensure adequate competition under local competitive bidding.
Total value of contracts expected to be awarded following local competitive
bidding is estimated at $50 million. Small project works, each not
exceeding *100,000 and which may not even attract local enterprises, would
be undertaken on force account. The total value of such works would not
exceed $5 million. Contracts for50 man-months of technical assistance
would be awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of
consultants.
64.      The Loan would be disbursed as follows:
(i)   45 per cent of total cost for all civil works;
(ii) 100 per cent of foreign expenditures and 65 per cent of local
expenditures for vehicles and equipment;
(iii) 100 per cent of foreign expenditures and 60 per cent of local
expenditures for consultants' services, training and the cadastral
survey.
Retroactive financing not exceeding $1 million would be provided for
preparatory studies, and other activities requiring immediate attention.



- 19 -
65.      Contract review.  Bidding packages for works exceeding $300,000 and
for goods and services exceeding $200,000, including the first two contracts
relating to each of the various social infrastructure components,
plantations, irrigation, road development and vehicles or equipment, would
be subject to prior review by the Bank. This would result in 80 per cent
coverage of contracts and the remainder would be subject to random review by
the Bank after contract award.
66.      Accounts, audits and reports.  Existing financial control and audit
of governmental bodies is undertaken by the Ministry of Finance in a
systematic and satisfactory way. Inspectors from the Ministry of Finance
may undertake random inspections particularly in case of force account
operations. In addition, the Ministry of Finance would prepare yearly audit
reports (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03) within 6 months after the end of the
fiscal year which would include specific opinions on whether funds disbursed
by the Bank on the basis of statements of expenditures have been used for
intended purposes. To facilitate implementation and control, all government
departments participating in the project would have their annual budgetary
allocation specifically individualized in the finance law and appropriations
program. Separate accounts would be maintained for related expenditures
(Loan Agreement, Sections 4.02 and 4.03).
Environmental Impact
67.      The project will have a beneficial impact on the environment.
Areas selected for plantations and sylvopastoral operations are mostly in
degraded and open areas exposed to uncontrolled grazing and erosion.
Although not as effective as a well closed natural forest as a protection
for the physical environment or as habitat for flora and fauna, these
plantations and sylvopastoral improvements will improve soil conservation
and water supplies and help reduce overcutting and further environmental
degradation. The management plans to be developed will help identify areas
of particular importance for flora and fauna.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
68.      The project's impact on production will be substantial.  Direct
benefits should accrue to some 54,000 persons, based on the participation of
54 per cent of the farmers covering 66 per cent of the agricultural land,
and who would enjoy a financial rate of return between 21 per cent and 41
per cent depending on the ecological zones and the size of the farm.
Agricultural output would increase substantially, particularly for legumes,
fodder and vegetables. Milk production would increase by 17 per cent and
other meat and dairy products between 40 and 90 per cent. In addition, the
project would create the equivalent of some 2,300 full-time jobs. Effective
on-farm employment would increase from the present 46 per cent to 56 per
cent. In addition, the implementation of the forestry component would
require more than 5 million man-days over the project period. Finally, it
is expected that the improved farm practices, in combination with easier
access to credit and extension services, would have a long-term impact also
on farmers not directly participating in the project.



-  20  -
69.      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is
estimated at 14 per cent over a 35-year period. Benefits include the value
of incremental crops, livestock and wood fiber production. The agricultural
component has an estimated ERR of 15.5 per cent, the forest component 13 per
cent, the soil conservation component 23 per cent and the irrigation
component 48 per cent. Major long-term benefits of the project's soil
protection and watershed management activities cannot be cuantified but
include decrease of the sedimentation rate of river basins, reduction of
losses due to flooding and decrease of the siltation rate of downstream
reservoirs.
70.      The project does not face any unusual risks.  The effects of
foreseeable droughts on crops and livestock production will be limited by
the introduction of improved agricultural techniques and using drought
resistant varieties and species. The most serious risk is that the project
be delayed by 2 years in which case a sensitivity analysis indicates that
ERR would fall to an unacceptable 9 per cent. A number of steps have been
taken to reduce the risk: the project is relatively simple and the number
of agencies involved is small; retroactive financing is being recommended
for preparation and design of project related activities; the Governor of
Khemisset will be directly involved in project implementation and
supervision; and Moroccan staff, including the project manager and his
deputy, have been involved in project preparation and are already in place.
In addition, steps have been taken to ensure specific identification of
project specific counterpart funds in the budget for 1983 and onwards. The
risks of serious delays in project implementation are thus considered
limited. Another risk is a lower than expected participation by the
population in the project area, but project estimates are based on the very
low assumption of 54 per cent, and there is little reason to assume a lower
participation rate. Nevertheless, a sensitivity analysis indicates that ERR
would remain at 12 per cent even if the farmers participation rate decreased
by 20 per cent. The ERR would also fall to 10 per cent if the project
experienced cost overrun of 20 per cent or a combination of a 10 per cent
cost overrun and a 10 per cent reduced farmer participation, but this is,
again, considered unlikely.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors separately.
72.      Special conditions of the Loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of disbursement include: (i) expenditures for
irrigation development on any of the 11 perimeters will only be authorized
if users have been grouped in duly established associations and have agreed
to the cost recovery provisions of Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement;
and (ii) expenditures for sylvo-pastoral development on any of the five



-  21  -
zones included in the project will only be authorized after appropriate
organizational and technical arrangements have been elaborated and agreed
upon and grazing associations have been established (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, Part 4(b) and (c)).
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 22, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                             REPERNPICE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE4GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT SSTIHATE)
TOTAL             446.6/c                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      202.2 /c                                MOST RECENT            NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  fb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                    220.0        340.0      900.0                 1253.6                    1902.0
ENERGY CO7SUNMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)        163.2        214.0      302.3                 713.5                     1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 11626.0         14993.0   20182.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3            34.6       40.6                   47.3                      65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          35.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            81.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          26.0         33.6      43.8                   35.8                       35.2
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        61.1         75.0       96.6                 420.9                       92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            44.8         47.6       46.1                  44.3                       39.7
15-64 YRS.                            52.6         48.3       50.7                  52.4                      56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6          4.2        3.2                    3.3                       4.2
POPULATION GROWTS RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.6          2.5        3.0                    2.8                       2.4
URBAN                                 3.7          4.2        4.6                    4.6                       3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TNOUSAND)        51.8         47.3       44.9                   41.2                      31.4
CRUDE DEATS RATE (PER THOTSAND)        23.4         17.2       12.7                   12.2                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.5        3.2                    2.9                       2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TEOUSANDS)          ..         25.1       78.0j4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             1.0        5.4/d
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             99.0         98.0       88.0                 100.4                      110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     100.8        103.0      106.5/e               108.5                     108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            64.6          66.5       68.3/e                71.9                       66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          13.8         12.6       13.5/e                18.0                       34.0
COILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        36.8         26.6       15.5                   15.1                       5.6
HFEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.7            51.7       56.5                   56.9                      64.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                 160.5        136.3      107.2                  104.3                      64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                30.6         51.0       55.0/d                59.1                       65.6
URBAN                                58.7         92.0      100.0/d                 83.1                      78.9
RURAL                                19.0         28.0       25.0/d                 39.8                      43.9
ACCEES TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         29.0         ..                     ..                      59.3
URBAN                                  ..         75.0         ..                     ..                      75.3
RORAL                                  ..          4.0         ..                     ..                      30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             9406.1      12814.5   11037.4/d               4015.5                     1617.3
POPULATION PER NL 0SING PERSON           ..       2742.2    1826.31e                1802.2                    1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               625.6        664.3      773.6/e               641.7                      477.4
URBAN                                  ..        454.7      623.4/e               538.3                      679.8
RURAL                                  ''       5821.4    3089.6/e               2403.3                     1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         15.5       17.9/e                 25.5                      27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF NOUNSEHQLD
TOTAL                                 4.8          5.5         ..                     *-
URBAN                                 4.3          4.9
RURAL                                 5.1          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.2          2.4
URBAN                                 2.1          2.1
RURAL                                 2.3          2.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..         68.4       65.0/e
RURAL                                  ..           ..



- 23 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)lf
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUISTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                47.0         52.0      75.0                  88.7                   104.3
NALE                 67.0         67.0      93.0                 104.5                   106.4
FEMALE               27.0         36.0      56.0                 72.0                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 5.0         13.0      22.0                 39.7                     41.3
MALE                  7.0         18.0      27.0                 49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                2.0          7.0      17.0                 29.0                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  30.2          2.3       2.8                  10.1                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           42.4         34.3      40.3                  34.1                    29.9
SECONDARY                          6.3         20.4      21.0/f                23.7                    16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        13.8        21.4      28.0                  43.3                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         10.7        14.8      19.6/d                17.8                    42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PFR TH7OUSAND
POPULATION                         15.8        62.4     107.5                 131.3                   270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.4         11.6      38.4                  44.1                   107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  22.1        16.2      11.8                  31.5                    63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..       2.0/e                 1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3388.7       3945.2    5294.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   10.0        14.2      15.8                  10.6                    24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              62.0        57.0      52.0                  42.4                    31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.0         17.0      21.0                 27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                29.1        26.3      26.2                  26.0                    33.6
MALE                                 52.1        45.2      44.2                  46.2                    50.4
FEMALE                                5.9         7.5       8.3                   5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         2.0       1.9                   1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
RURAL                                ..          ..     219.0/i
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/g       20.0/g 
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.3/g       49.0/g
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0/g        4.0/R
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/R       12.0/_       .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USO PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             107.0       157.0     389.0                 279,2
RURAL                              66.0       101.0     238.0                 178.6                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     242.0                 403.6                   518.0
RURAL                               ..           ..     257.0                 285.6                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              51.0        38.0      28.0                   22.1
RURAL                              49.0        45.0      45.0                   30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1976; le 1977; /f 1975; /g Consumption expenditures of households.
May, 1982



- 24 -                                                                      ANNTEX I
OP stts. atoPOPOrtPage    3   of   6
toah    s,aaa   a.  ot  ea   reS  tpa   sLtt    soti    .~Ottnaaataaaa   tda Iot.asol   lot   a                                      ta.a   t   a          otr
a.ajtZo iariaa .se  ating l-tatOs. talteat0,o tataoa    ,to   50   tlsaaeOaacoctaa
Its rtsrato  ~acp.ira  t) a       -s oastt(   I"tat , a   t   ~(oatatpta   Ptoaar   -attatea5.5t  at.ttsges  saste    b   oaa 
attgscistOtty(aea   o                     Ott   toa tt-ptaa'taa    los'tca  oaoaoo -                              as       aotssg..oaa    ettaa  stts
gtato'i-aoTtoaa ttttlts).            at-dtroe  rc   Oas  ar a-        tI   ste1  do.- la   aircttarep -nea dlcr"  bytloaaa                           tatcl   te
a09soaa.tda1..                                     rd
esolyaaar  aaata(a5aoc   c  at    yto  aadtatat    ttI'lla,eage.a..tr.t                                             a. oadtaoa                 acsortattra
sa b.  a  _Oa. _tt o  cco                   a aaolodt  ploag  aassgaI  ogtotsat-aohba-   b..saas.  aeaa   .ata  I   asog                               It.,Iaa
db-.                                                               ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-a  Si..o  ap   ttoc.fttOret   taat   aots(
1300  ass tIlt 9dsa        ...   sosola.                                                            sttaa,f         rc.    tsta   o bsa   tsta-s  aata   o
P1.3-  I.-    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _-stot aM paai    a  Ltte  rsga                                  b-aota  lttt   . ta  .....
'-"  L. O..  -it-d  ~~~~~t   lb,.              'm             E~~aos c~tteltsItls    t h   otta   s
tott  atlsta,.  V-ac   oatssos)- o  1   Ay  t  tt,  0(. tad  t-O             OtbOob-
dos.OPtaatIs  t  osOtOt-coct sr(toaslo  -Ptt.   ptc  cd  oas
((rIa Paataaoa(asat,  a) attO  -tibo  atoat  a   aato tbotslc  I tsascttacassasat   grot a  tatooasttcrcc.ss...ar.....sP
Ottfatoboetolt lcs at   as toae ae   alat  ah-t.Iot   pOt                             adOol  51   et.0t- ts    tla;tSI0,aa  a   s  atodI
tettog oaaottssl 1550,Itlo, sad  ago dots.                              o. t-ooastoa 1I tt  'Itte tool. Tarasa
tatosabo   Prtettaaobsearr asr   t teest  soroas-oas. aataa-abstapL    teet
Pastota  t gt-10-  aost btrtlat-t  tPIgloo   sgOts a-, (050                              sro  pepros ta  too ..o 1.10obo   b   aatta                     ss os
aoI oasaa   yea  o   o   a  aeaedtt.telrt                -ttas                     aeltc   rsP.-ty--o.aesso0s s-sfa    atOaa   0
Ppafaata  patastae fo  natal ta  a td   aaaoofaas-lael-saas-                           t.oa-asotats
00    t.aptt doaattaoaaatca  taaa'   e  o)t   tae                                 Pas   ttstaoly(otso   tps  t5t   ttl   rso   t   otl
teoltta9aao   o4000l.e   s  rs   sat    1500otbaaas
Poab aoaay-stga           -ssadoo   at        - bhsts   Pto , otlhtlas   at  dortttt                         .  .. 00tt1a.                    I~.
stdIsratt   actd   tt  r --oao  patpoSs P.,os -toatg-td-s)a
batastooatasIasstaotottsatoosaotartalo                                                    paa-)aaataa.etscs.t-rtsasOSla-lo t
at  trttros  astol0  as   stttae.sO   tt   basa   trotd   ao                     at(got  fat  se  a  aeOpoat  tstaspatatsa   t  staa 4
sOt .srat.                                                                            sdoaostos.11 .    4   dI  uW..i asa.VAt  at  laalo  ptsa   ra   rar    baoao-oa
tearaaltaasaa Taaasoaaa  5 taosd     Pta ytO  att ettooti-  .art..ob  .0                   U.s)o   astr.)    osoat   tostrta.aa    asaaoaitrt
alast-        daibi. .                -d            -tba 0d-                                                        1  pst  a  so.aa.syoseg   toae ls   5C.At
totlstaaOssla        -ettasa
Pgass.t.-to-ssrap tsttaapsreooaagaa0a            970ar( daL9W  d)t                       ocoassalesaartooeoadao                            dtsosttalcat
t., atta,s   tt        L.ta   n   90lo.tooeooshs.tlaoto.a   as   oteoaat   yto    tees
..  s. I.  sPbattat  tto'.aos                 saOa-a ilotco    sd                                b0   rssdtrnt  at  Wnoaat -t -ala  as
Plo10.it   a    tOdt.Ptt-sts   iI-tbat  a   soaoy-Iotaose    tald5
poa.so    sat  as   ptsa      tlOs df-to A-aba caloo  ets(.1-atOnlLse  g `tabsa   heceAaaodI    aga tMarlaa
hI lc5t5a 505 ratato  tt 1asaasos sat  as pserotaseg  t abosyor paaa  osr.a,aatdttsIto.etL
babaso  OtO.101, sd lit Ots.Ocal oa.rsr oas tsrasri    tasrsa   adtbatel o t-ru   sodatps
Parlsaoa   tast bg  ara-a)-art-          Ios    tao p-es  or, orass ra-1               oaat(tettoe-1
.o,oaatoot   t     Vt. - It-O att (t.t  -ot  .                                                  sallacry_ ~ %   os9ta. LssT-. 
oapaoaaa:  OOt  tIl, sd 10 dts.                                                     taoaeetaota-dtlbyolVWpt Ltaacd o  tootsbati 'tobas aJ
Poeo, Pbooal-oootaas. 1'o,a)  atoasos)      bost   -ae    taoria                   '  ttact  (pa 'aoo20    poaotl       t  eaor   o  arosaos a0 a-
at,hatO-oarrot  srabe f    oases eaoraes    0 ot toti  "seCI  ptaad- t.-                        lat  otoortast    oataotaaot   illas    a                                  Tt
tsoyplotctec    osot   f  ald   s)-?sabae   tsrat                                                    aooaoeoooIta   tgyalTteloatf   ct   b   t  fst
atadoat     4- a   1...tot. apnhts . faoatlo  estosieOsdta   s                            tastgl  ocata* ate "et   al.to  dta c0  dt...-.   .                     ta
Is  a  aaadt  sa  tet.   osaloetoasaprsty  osA(.-   ctos                        ad       Ieoti
Iroiro   at saaa( ahat aa  toote  od  aiael  aottabatd (a-.  tt   o
sa 1aaoo.osoba   atsto2p   ottOabp  tOoe   atto    tt
t,tpaltert   roae  olsslts   Ot-I.ll,  o   ot   aa-Tta   aortct  oootdo- ~aaattIysas   sesa.lt ct
Pa.oto  oa.         P  sot ....           a  eoh  tra -osttotaasn    oee   t   ts1ps.agso.ooatesiby                                                          bosaa   t-
gosao s1oOol.et a  octtot  eaplla  satlole  0  Ooatta  Is  ospte  poera5  apatttc   ciatl  ges   otttlaatsto artoe oa,tataa  aP
tsp  ap.cosaall  eoalt.  aoy It  dosli  aapsaboa.  utia  Ias   ot agoteble  0)0. ilO  ad Ola  ats



Population         20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                                            ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  USI 870 (1981)                                                                                                       Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                                                      f/
(million USt at                                        Annual Growth Rates (7Z
current prices)                           Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                        1980                  1977   1978   1979   1980   198le/                  1982    lQ83    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17820                     6.0    2.2    4.8    3.6   -1.3                     4.0      5.1      4.5      4.3
Agriculture                  3229                -12.3   18.0   -1.7    6.2  -16.0                     7.0      9.6      3.1     2.5
Industry                     5752                  8.0    0.9    7.7   -2.5   -0.5                    3.7      4.6      5.4      5.1
Services                     7762                  8.5    4.0    5.1    6.4    3.4                     3.7      4.3     4.3      4.3
Consumption                    15770                  5.3    4.2    5.8    2.5    2.2                     1.3      4.2      3.5      3.6
Gross investment                4025                 15.6  -25.9      1.3   -7.3   -3.6                   6.5    -1.1       3.7      3.2
Exports of GNFS                 3273                 10.3    3.3    0.9    3.7    3.5                     4.5      7.0      6.3      5.3
Imports of GNFS                 5247                 14.5  -17.4    3.3   -9.8   10.7                   -i.9    -0.6       2.2       2.3
Gross national savings          2606                  1.5  -15.4    3.2    6.0  -20.6                    O.5      15.6    13.2       1.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 = 100)           .               172.0  186.5  200.2  218.4  241.2
Exchange rate (USt per DH)          .                .222   .240   .256   .294   .193
Share of GDP at M4arket Prices (x)                             Average Annual Tncrease (55
(at current pricesld/                        (at constant 1969 prices)   (at constant 1980 prices)
1960   1970   1975   l980   1985  1990                 1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                                4.0        4.9        5.6        3.7        5.1
Agriculture -           29.1   19.2   17.9   18.1   17.1  15.1                     3.5      -5.4         4.5        2.9        2.5
Industry Ž/             23.5   27.2   35.2   32.3   34.9  35.8                     4.7       7.4         4.8        3.9        5.5
Services h/             47.4   53.6   46.9   49.6   47.9  49.1                    4.1         5.0        7.0        4.0        5.5
Consumption                 89.2   85.5   85.5   88.5   87.7  84.0                    4.1        5.0        6.4        3.0        4.2
Gross investment            10.3   18.5   25.4   22.6   20.0  20.0                    8.0       13.0       -1.2        2.0        5.5
Exports GNFS                27.4   17.6   22.5   18.4   20.5  22.7                    1.3        0.0        5.0        5.5        7.1
Imports GNFS                26.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   28.7  26.7                    3.5        8.3        1.7        1.7        4.0
Gross national savings   11.0   14.8   19.3   14.6   14.5  17.9                       3.5       15.3       -4.4        3.0       10.0
As S of GDP
1960       1970       1975       5980       1981
PU3LIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                   16.5       16.1       23.3        21.6       23.3
Current expenditures                               15.6       14.5       20.2       21.8        24.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                          0.9        1.6        3.1       -0.2        -l.4
Capital expenditure                                 3.8        5.7       12.2        12.4       12.6
Foreign financing                                    ..        l.3         3.7        5.6        9.3
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (5)                       4.0        6.0         5.2        3.4        5.1
GNP per capita growth rate (7)            1.6        3.1        1.8       -0.1         2.0
Energy consumption growth rate (x)    3.8            6.7         5.6        4.3        5.0
ICOR                                      3.09       3.0        4.1         6.2        3.9
Marginal savings r9te                     0.10       0.38      -0.15        0.27       0.28
Import elasticityc!                       0.95       1.84       0.13        0.95       0.78
a/  At market prices.
b/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goods only.
d/  Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
e/ Estimates.
f/  1977-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-85 at 1980 prices.
September 28, 1982
EMENA CP II-B
ID 05808 P.1



- 26 -
Population        20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                 ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US3 870 (1981)                                                                           Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator           (million USI at                              Annual Growth Rates (%)1/
current prices)                 Actual                                    Projected
1980         1975   1977   1978   1979   1980        1981      1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)        2414      -21.9   10.7    5.3    1.8    5.1          1.0       4.0    7.8    6.7    5.1
Primary products             1823       -25.2    7.7    5.4    0.0    5.8         -8.1       1.2    3.4    3.8    3.5
Phosphate rock             765       -29.9    9.6    9.6    3.2    7.4        -5.4       0.0    3.0    5.0    4.0
Others                     939       -22.3    6.5    2.8   -1.7   14.7    -10.0           2.1    3.7    2.9    3.1
Intermediate & manufactures 591          -1.4   23.8    5.0    7.1    2.8         27.4       9.8   16.3   11.8    7.6
Merchandise imports (CIF)       4283         21.2   14.4  -19.9    6.6   -7.1         9.3      -1.9    0.5    3.9    4.0
Food                          720        37.8    0.4    8.6    2.2    3.4         32.5    -16.8   -0.9    2.1    4.5
Petroleum                    1006        12.8    8.7   11.0   12.1  -11.9         10.8       0.0   -1.1    3.3    3.2
Machinery and equipment       805        51.7   26.7  -44.3   -3.2  -19.8          7.5       3.0   -2.5    4.0    2.9
Others                       1752         4.0   13.0  -15.1   12.5   -5.2         -0.3       2.6    3.7    5.0    4.8
PRICES (1980 = 100)
Export price index                 .         89.9   68.4   69.7   83.5  100.0    123.3    125.1  137.1  153.5  171.8
Import price index                 .        64.1   67.9   73.0   79.2  100.0    122.3    130.9  140.2  154.3  169.8
Terms of trade index               .        140.3  100.7   95.5  105.4  100.0    100.8         95.6   97.8   99.5  101.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (C)                        Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                      (Constant 1969 prices)   (Constant 1980 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                           2.0      -1.2        6.6        5.2        7.6
Primary products          89.5    89.4   86.9   74.4   60.5   49.1             ..     -2.7        5.3        1.3        3.3
Intermediates & manu-   10.5    10.6   12.9   25.6   39.5   50.9              ..       8.1       12.1       14.0       13.0
factures
Imports                                                                           4.0       9.1        0.7        2.4       4.0
Food                      27.3    16.9   25.0   16.9   16.9   15.5            ..      14.0        3.0        0.7        2.4
Petroleum                  7.4      5.5   10.8   23.6   23.6   22.4            ..      9.6        5.3        2.4        2.8
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.1   24.0   18.9   18.7   19.2               ..     12.8       -7.0        2.4        4.5
Others                    58.6    53.5   40.2   40.6   40.7   42.9             ..      5.5        2.9        3.3        5.1
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (M)         Developing Countries CE)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (M)
1960       1970       1980       1960       1970        1980     1960            1970            1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3        73.7       76.5        27.7      25.4       21.6         ..            0.9             1.9
Imports                        76.7       74.9       72.9        23.3       25.1        8.3        ..              ..            18.8
1/ 1977-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-1985 at 1980 prices                                                  September 22, 1982
EMS,NA CP TI-B
ID 0180B p.2



- 27 -
Population         20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                                             ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US4 870 (1981)                                                                                                        Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USE at current prices)
Indicator                                                     Actual                                                  Projected
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981          1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                2288      2486      2955      3694      4364      4132          4087    4669      5401    6193   11297
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            1245      1283      1488      1938       2414      2283         2180    2575    3077    3618    7163
Imports of goods and services               3691      4364       4353      5268      5912      6095         5780    6276    6930    7734   12812
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.2J          2305      2820      2628       3245      3770      3840         4054    4365    4994    5714    9856
Net current tranfers                           47        52        50        44       128       102             -        -        -        -        -
Current account balance                    -1355    -1826    -1348    -1530    -1420    -1861              -1692   -1607   -1529   -1541   -1515
Special grants                               435        360       260       420       314       313            84      197      320      150      232
Current account balance after grants    -920    -1466    -1088    -1110    -1106    -1548                  -1609   -1410   -1209   -1391   -1283
Private capital                                38        53        45        37        88        68            76       85       96      106      171
MLT loans (net)                               838      1338      1109       946       971      1205          1071    1425    1371       1666    1359
Official                                   ..         ..        ..        ..        ..      1315          994      736      878      982    1092
Private                                    . .        . .       . .       ..        ..      -110           77      689      493      684      267
Other capital                                  28        68       -73        73      -200        17            ..       ..       ..       .
Monetary movements-/                           16         6         8        53       247       258           462    -100    -258    -381        -263
International reserves                       548       609        772       917       814       508          470       543      653      787    1635
Of which:  Gold                            82       104        154       360       415       278          278      278      278      278      278
Reserves as months imports                    1.8       1.7       2.1       2.1       1.7       1.0           1.0      1.0      1.1      1.2      1.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT c/
Gross disbursements                           725      1787      1182      1405      1567      1807
Concessional loans                        111       636       325       293        750      1089
DAC                                     63       109        91        76         96       138
OPEC                                    41       507       189       168       584       837
IDA                                      4         3         -         -          1         2
Other                                    3        16        45        49        69        112
Non-concessional loans                    614      1151        859     1113        818       718
Official export credits                 22        27         2         2         12       128
IBRD                                    59        68        72       137        64       129
Other multilateral                       2         6        53          7       13         86
Private                                531      1050       732       967       729       375
Suppliers credits                   10       171         10         8        16         6
Financial credits and bonds        521        879       722       957       713       368
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           2330      4069      5123      6182       7097      8381
Official                              1250      1975      2456      2833      3482      4865
Private                               1080      2094     .2667      3349      3615      3515
Undisbursed debt                          801      1024      2280      2337       2058      2901
Debt service
Total service payments                    162       264        547       798      1191      1340
Interest                                66       148       252       410       618       738
Payments as % exports of G+S              7.2      10.7      18.7       21.8      28.0      32.7
Average interest rate on new loans (x)           7.7       6.8       7.0       8.2       8.1        8.4
Average maturity of new loans (years)           11.7      13.1      13.2      15.9       13.7      10.0
As % of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                              56.8
Maturities due within 10 years                                            118.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                              8.9
a/ c.i.f. for projected years.
bi/ Projected values include IMF credits.
c/ Years 1976-80 from IBRD External Debt Reporting System, 1981 from the BOP statistics.  There are sizeable discrepancies in some years
between the external capital and debt service flows reported under the IBRD Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of
payments statistics shown in the upper part of this table.
October 14, 1982
EMENA CP IT-B
ID 0180B p.3



28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Loan or                                                                           US$ Million
Credit                                                                 Amou-nt7less cancellations)
Number         Year       Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Twenty-four   Loans       Fully disbursed                              617.4
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                           36.0
1018           1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             32.0                    8.4
555            1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                        14.0        11.1
1202           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                 21.0                   11.6
1220-T         1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education               25.0                   16.5
1416           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             41.0                   30.5
1428           1977       BNDE                    DFC                   35.6                     2.5
S-7           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering              1.5                    0.5
1528           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                        15.2
1602           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             65.0                   59.1
1625           1978       Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                     5.9
1681           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education              113.0                  108.9
1687           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               25.0                    12.8
1695           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   42.0                   41.9
1704           1979       CNCA                    Agriculture           70.0                   30.8
1724           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            49.0                   30.4
1757           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             58.0                   49.6
S-18           1980       BRPM                    Oil Exploration       50.0                   20.7
1830           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                 62.0                   53.8
1848           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             34.0                   32.2
1943           1981       CIH                     Tourism              100.0                    70.9
1944           1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                       36.0
2006           1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            87.0                   87.0
20371/         1982       BNDE                    DFC                   70.0                    70.0
20381/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               70.0                    70.0
20821/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             29.0                    29.0
21091/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                   9.5                     9.5
21102/         1982       Kingdom of Morcco       Forestry              27.5                    27.5
21141/         1982       ONAREP                  Oil Shale             20.0                    20.0
2149!/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Education V             50.0                    50.0
Total                                                            1908.5       50.0      1010.4
of which has been repaid                                        239.4        1.2
Total now outstanding                                            1669.1       48.8
Amount Sold                                  20.1
of which has been repaid                   17.7                   2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                   1666.7       48.8
Total undisbursed                                                 999.5       11.1      1010.4
NOTE
1/ Not effective as of 9/30/82. However, since then the following loans have been declared
effective: BNDE IX, Forestry.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
US$ Million
Loan     Equity   Total
1962/1978           BNDE                          Development Bank            -        2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                           Canning Factory            0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement              Cement Factory              -        1.3       1.3
1977/1980           Temara Cement                 Cement Factory             4.7       3.6       8.3
1979                Agadir Cement *               Cement Factory            12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                SOMIFER                       Copper Mining             13.0       2.3      15.3
1981/1983           Casablanca Cement             Cement Factory            15.8      -2.1      17.9
Total Gross Commitments                                                46.9      14.7      61.6
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales            15.4       3.5      18.9
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      31.5       11.2     42.7
Total Undisbursed                                                       15.8       2.4     18.2
* Agadir Cement has been cancelled.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Ln. No. 1018         Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980,
except for the procurement of sugarcane sprinkler and transport equipment.
Funds have been virtually fully committed for the additional infrastructure
works foreseen under an amendment to the Loan Agreement approved in July
1980. Disbursements have lagged behind implementation due to administrative
delays by ORMVAG. Steps have been taken to reduce future delays.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum. Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and civil works
(roads, destoning and irrigation rehabilitation) have been started in the
remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected, mainly because
project implementation has proven more complex than anticipated, which has
been aggravated by project management problems. However, the first results of
the completed components are promising. Because of the initial delay and the
complexity in implementation, the original closing date was extended by three
years.
Ln. No. 1202         Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of
February 27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project consists of infrastructure works and common facilities
for a hotel/residential tourism development complex. Most infrastructure
works were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of common
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to institutional and project management problems. Project
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
completion is expected to be delayed by at least 18 months, and an extension
of the closing date has been under consideration for a long time since it has
been made contingent on the Government's agreement to an action program. The
Government has now been advised that the Bank will cancel the balance of the
loan on December 31, 1982 unless an action program has been agreed upon by
that date.
Ln. No. 1220-T      Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1976; Closing
Date: September 1, 1982.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agricultural extension, health and tourism. After an initial
two-year delay, construction under the education and agriculture components is
largely completed and funds are committed for the equipment and technical
assistance components, but lengthy delays have been experienced in the
implementation of the health and tourism components. Further extension of the
closing date would depend on improvements in disbursement performance, which
bas lagged due to administrative delays both in the Project Unit and the
Ministry of Finance.
Ln. No. 1416        Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco in 1980-81 which caused a delay of about
two years. Project implementation has resumed vigorously under excellent
project management.
Ln. No. 1428        Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of industrial sub-projects, and of a small-scale industry pilot
credit program ($5 million). The loan is fully committed, and the loan is
expected to fully be disbursed before end 1982. BNDE's financial performance
deteriorated sharply in 1981, but the trend should be reversed since a package
of measures to rehabilitate BNDE financially and to strengthen the institution
has recently been agreed upon.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. No. S-7         Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohanmedia region and of a first phase project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation was delayed by about 15
months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily and an extension
of the closing date is under consideration. The technical components of a
possible project have been identified, but institutional problems have not yet
been resolved.
Ln. No. 1528        Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. After initial delays, project
implementation has recently improved significantly. Infrastructure works are
under way and housing improvement loans are being made. Relocation to sites
and services areas is under progress and some enterprises have started
operation in the industrial zone. Disbursements, however, remain low and the
matter is under review with the Government.
Ln. No. 1602        Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families in the Fes-Karia-Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to
the growth of agricultural production and to a reduction in Moroccan
dependence on imported food commodities. These aims would be achieved through
a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension and soil
conservation services, training, the provision of credit and infrastructure.
Although somewhat delayed, implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, due to
excellent project management and good interagency coordination. However,
disbursements have lagged due to delays by the implementing agencies in
submitting reimbursement requests to the Ministry of Finance.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 1625        Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur melting
and storing facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and
storage facilities. Commercial operations have begun and the project will
probably be completed on schedule. Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory. The project account is being closed and an amount of
about $5 million is expected to be cancelled.
Ln. No. 1681        Fourth Education Project; US$ll3.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation was initially delayed; however, all major contracts have now
been signed and disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Ln. No. 1687        Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US'25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a Government program to assist
small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The loan is virtually fully committed, and earlier
disbursement delays should be remedied subsequent to the recent introduction
of simplified administrative procedures.
Ln. No. 1695        Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in more than 200 villages throughout the country. Problems of
interministerial coordination and budgetary allocations delayed project
start-up for about one year. Orders have now been placed for most of the
equipment but no payments have yet been made. However, implementation is well
under way and the project is expected to be completed according to schedule.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1704        Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project covers most of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through mid-1983. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD and
KfW. CNCA's on-lending as well as repayments were severely affected by the
1980-1981 drought, slowing disbursement of the Bank loan. To alleviate CNCA's
short-term liquidity problems (due mainly to the drought), its lenders,
including the Bank, have increased their disbursement percentages under their
respective loans.
Ln. No. 1724        Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections. The project is now proceeding
satisfactorily and disbursements are expected to increase accordingly.
Ln. No. 1757        Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $5o.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No. S-18        Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the Government's
petroleum exploration and development program. It has recently been
transferred from BRPM, the original Borrower, to the new petroleum development
agency, the Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres
(ONAREP). The project also provides technical assistance in prospect
evaluation, analysis of results of exploration, and exploration management.
Drilling so far has shown encouraging results, particularly as regards natural
gas prospects. Procurement problems have hampered project implementation and
recruitment of consultants has proceeded very slowly. Administrative problems
have also delayed disbursements.
Ln. No. 1830        Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transportation to improve
transportation planning and to study road maintenance. The pavement
strengthening and maintenance activities are progressing satisfactorily. The
hiring of consultants for technical assistance is behind schedule due to the
slow preparation of the terms of reference. Disbursements have lagged due to
delays in payment of contractors as well as transmittal of reimbursement
requests to the Ministry of Finance.
Ln. No. 1848        Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30,
1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Ln. No. 1943        Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project provides funds over a three year period to the Credit
Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing in the
tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It also
includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and training of
CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects. Commitments and
disbursements have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944         Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1981;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project consists of the provision of shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families through a program for slum upgrading,
sites and services and provision of serviced land for small-scale industries,
to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and Kenitra. Assistance is also
provided to strengthen the municipal services of the project cities.
Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient coordination through the
provincial Governors' offices, but some delays in approval of contracts by the
Ministry of Finance have occurred.
Ln. No. 2006        Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project includes the construction of two regional water
supply systems and the expansion and upgrading of the water supply facilities
in about 32 small towns scattered throughout Morocco. It would also provide
revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low income households,
equipment, technical assistance, training and studies.
Ln. No. 2037        Ninth BNDE Project; US$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Date of effectiveness: November 2, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project would include a pilot component in the line of credit to
BNDE, to finance export-oriented industrial sub-projects. The project also
focusses on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of
project appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Ln. No. 2038         Small Scale Industry II Project; US$70.0 million of
November 3, 1981; Not yet effective. Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The project comprises (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating to
the structure of incentives for SSIs.
Ln. No. 2082         Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development
Project: US$29.0 million of March 5, 1982. Not yet
effective. Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The project consists of interrelated forestry, range and cropping
land development to bring about production increases of meat, milk, fodder,
cereals and wood, on about 600 ha. in central Morocco, as well as to raise
income and employment among the target population.
Loan No. 2109        Small-Scale Mining Project: US$9.5 million of April 14,
1982. Not yet effective. Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
This pilot project would increase the productivity of small-scale
lead and zinc mining operations through provision of equipment and facilities,
as well as credit to miners, in a remote region of Morocco thus increasing
exports and raising rural incomes. The project would also strengthen the
financial, technical and administrative base of CADETAF, the implementing
agency, and finance studies as a basis for future expansion of mining
activities. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2110        Forestry Project: US$27.5 million of April 14, 1982.  Date
of effectiveness: October 28, 1982. Closing date: June 30,
1988.
The project consists of destumping about 30,000 ha of eucalyptus
plantations and degraded oak and cork forests and replanting with eucalyptus,
pine and acacia; upgrading and construction of forest and access roads;
pasture improvement over 2,000 ha; and technical and institutional support.
Project implementation has commenced satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2114        Oil Shale Engineering Project: US$20.0 million of April 14,
1982. Not yet effective. Closing date: September 30, 1986.
The engineering project would finance studies and the construction of
a shale retorting test station to generate information and analysis on the
characteristics of Moroccan oil shale resources and on the technical and
economic viability of alternative options for their development.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No. 2149       Fifth Education Project: US$50.0 million of November 5,
1982. Not yet effective. Closing date: March 31, 1988.
The project is designed to improve the effectiveness of primary
education and support expanded science and mathematics teaching at the senior
secondary level, through construction of four senior secondary teachers
training colleges, 40 rural primary schools and the provision of teaching aids
to about 700 primary schools.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
OULMES-ROMMANI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Project identification:                            May 1979
(b)   Time taken by borrower to prepare project:         34 months
(c)   Agencies responsible for project preparation:  Government with help
from FAO/CP.
(d)   First Bank mission to review project:              November 1981
(e)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:                    March 1982
(f)   Date of completion of negotiations:                October 29, 1982
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness:                     April 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Disbursements
1.    Disbursements would only be made against expenditures for
(i) irrigation development on any of the 11 perimeters when users
have been grouped into duly established associations and have
agreed to an adequate cost-recovery formula (para. 62); and (ii)
sylvo-pastoral development on any of the five zones when grazing
associations have been established and appropriate organizational
and technical arrangements have been elaborated and agreed upon
(para. 52).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Other conditions
2.    The PMU would be fully staffed by September 30, 1983 (para. 55);
the audio-visual technician and graphic artist would be recruited
by September 30, 1983 (para. 57); and road brigades would be fully
staffed by December 31, 1983 (para. 59).
3.    The yearly research program would be established following
consultations with the Bank as would the yearly training program
for extension workers (para. 57).
4.    The sylvo-pastoral component would be co-managed by the Provincial
Forest and Livestock services and supported by a range management
expert to be recruited by September 30, 1983 (para. 58).
5.    Local communes would contribute to investment, operation and
maintenance costs for forest range improvement; and beneficiaries
on the 11 irrigated perimeters would cover operation and
maintenance costs as well as a portion of investment costs
(para. 62).
6.    Government authorities would individualize project-related
budgetary allocations to facilitate project implementation and
control (para. 66).






IBeRD 16473
6'45'                                        6°30'                   ,6-15'                                                           0°00'                           PORTUGAL  SPAINq  JUNE 19E2
K INGDOM              OF  MOROCCO                                                                                                                                 r  GIsRALTA+;-Mdrol---;
OULMES - ROMMANI AGRICULTURE  -                                         .        4         ,oee0s'Rm;nRbu!S
DEVELOPME NT   PROJ ECT                                                                                                                   334' Az Lr                          G E1 >>  I,  A      oOCO5o9
- INFRASTRUCTURE  AND    PROJECT  WORKS  /.<a                             V 0 {                  -4<\3t5_                                                        ,'       '_4P         LE1
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ d
W-,E-It-
W/dEnksT                   d         p xlsv/h  Se SSSOCL. A  ---IdcrwTbeallVo h     
ehfmdpnfovfhh bedteahfSed  rrvpsh0    -St g  tz/PgffY   ~ ~ ~   ----  ufu Rods  Tock                                             SE   ~/~    g           C 
boundammpshovvyunthlsmap  Ic< b   X gS>                             _          RvrsLMN                                                                         gmo 
do  mpt  impiv, on the pan of Xh p C, t z . I A r. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N ES 
64-'333'30'                                                                                                                                                       hURRA         HElR



