Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18966
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FORA
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$80 MILLION EQUIVALENT
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 14.7 MILLION (US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
GUANZHONG IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
APRIL 22, 1999
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and the Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1999)
Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = US$ 0.12
US$1.00 = Y8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS
1 meter (m)      =       3.28 feet(ft)
1 kilometer (km)  =      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer =     100 ha
I hectare (ha)   =       15 mu
=      2.47 acres
1 ton (t)        =       1,000 kg
=      2,205 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP           Agricultural Development Project
AB            Agricultural Bureau
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FMS           Financial Managernent System
GOC           Government of China
ID            Irrigation District
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MWR           Ministry of Water Resources
NEPA          National Environmental Protection Agency
NPV           Net Present Value
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
OCC           Opportunity Cost of Capital
OFD           On-Farm Development
PFB           Provincial Finance Bureau
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMO           Project Management Office
PPC           Provincial Planning Commission
TA            Technical Assistance
WCB           Water Conservancy Bureau
WUA           Water User Association
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino, EA-P
Country Director: Yukon Huang
Sector Manager- Geoffrey Fox
Task Team Leader: Bert L. Kramer



CHINA
Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project
Table of Contents
PAGE NO.
A.              Project Development Objective ...............................................             2
1.        Project development objective and key performance indicators ..........2
B.              Strategic Context ...............................................2
1.        Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ...............................2
2.        Main sector issues and Government strategy .......................................2
3.        Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .......3
C.              Project Description Summary  ...............................................              4
1.        Project components ...............................................4
2.        Summary of project components and costs ..........................................5
3.        Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ............6
4.        Benefits and target population ...............................................6
5.        Institutional and implementation arrangements ....................................6
D.              Project Rationale ...............................................9
1.        Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .....................9
2.        Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies .10
3.        Lessons learned and reflected in project design .................................... 10
4.        Indications of borrower commitmnent and ownership ........................... 11
5.        Value added of Bank support in this project ....................................    11
E.              Summary Project Analysis ............                          ........................ 12
1.        Economic analysis ....................................                                     12
2.        Financial analysis ....................................                                     12
3.        Technical ....................................                                              13
4.        Institutional ....................................                                         16
5. Social ..                                                                                          17
6.  Environmental assessment                                             .1 8
7.  Participatory approach .18



PAGE NO.
F.              Sustainability and Risks ................................                                19
1.        Sustainability ................................ 19
2.        Critical risks ................................                                           19
3.        Possible controversial aspects ................................                          19
G.              Main Loan Conditions ................................ 20
1.        Effectiveness conditions ................................                                20
Other conditions ................................                                        20
R.             Readiness for Implementation ................................                             21
l.             Compliance with Bank Policies ................................ 21
ANNEXES
Annex 1.   Project Design Summary ................................                                       22
Annex 2.   Project Description ................................                                          24
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs ................................                                      31
Annex 4.   Economic and Financial Analysis ................................                              34
Annex 5.  Financing Plan ................................                                                58
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................  59
Annex 7.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement ................................                            66
Annex 8.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule ................................                       73
Annex 9.   Documents in Project File ................................                                    74
Annex 10. Statement of Loans and Credits .75
Annex 1. Country at a Glance .79
MAPS    IBRD No. 29961 - Project Location Map



CHINA
Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Date: April 5, 1999                          Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Bert L. Kramer
Country Director: Yukon Huang                 Sector Manager: Geoffrey B. Fox
Project ID: CN-PE-51888  Sector: Agriculture    Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development (EN)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan  Program of Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [X ] No
Project Financing Data                  [X] Loan    [X] Credit         [] Guarantee   [] Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): IBRD Loan of US$80 Million and IDA Credit of SDR14.7 Million equivalent
Proposed terms:                            []  Multi-currency   [X]  Single currency: US$
Grace period (years): 5 Loan/10 Credit.   []  Standard Variable []   Fixed          [X] LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity: 20 Loan/35 Credit.
Commitment fee: 0.75%Loan/0.50%Credit
Service charge: 0.0%Loan/0.75%Credit.
Front-end fee: 1.00% of Loan
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local           Foreign          Total
Government                                                  73                -             73
Co-financiers
IBRD                                                                         80             80
IDA                                                           -              20             20
Beneficiaries                                               27                -             27
Total     100              100            200
Borrower:               People's Republic of China
Responsible agency:    Water Conservancy Bureau of Shaanxi Province
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):     2000    2001      2002      2003     2004      2005
Annual     16.2   19.8      19.5    17.5        18.2     8.8
Cumulative            36.0      55.5    73.0       91.2   100.0
[ ]  Partial credit  [] Partial risk
Project implementation period: 1999 - 2004
Expected effectiveness date: September 1, 1999    Expected closing date: June 30, 2005
OSD PAD Fonn: July 30,1997



Page 2
A:   Project Development Objective
1.    Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The project will improve the performance of existing irrigation systems in the Guanzhong Plain of
Shaanxi Province and thereby raise agricultural production, in particular of grains, and farm
incomes. It will support reforms of Shaanxi's irrigation sector that are aimed at strengthening the
organizational, technical and financial aspects of Irrigation Districts and at transferring water
management below the branch canals to the farming communities. Key performance indicators are:
(i) additional areas receiving full irrigation; (ii) adequate level and collection rate of water charges;
(iii) increased agricultural production; (iv) higher net incomes of project beneficiaries; and (v)
improved water use efficiencies.
B:   Strategic Context
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see
Annex 1)
C.AS document #: 16321-CHA, March, 1997. Date of latest CAS discussion: March 18, 1997.
CAS Progress Report #: R98-107 of May 6, 1998 discussed May 28, 1998.
The project will support Government's strategies endorsed in the CAS to: (i) intensify irrigated
agricultural production; (ii) reform irrigation management, including the transfer of management
responsibilities to beneficiaries; (iii) strengthen physical and financial sustainability of irrigation
systems; (iv) improve cost recovery; (v) develop available water resources and improve water use
efficiencies; (vi) incorporate in projects water storage, water transfer, irrigation and drainage
improvements and flood control measures; (vi) focus on the reconstruction of essential
infrastructure; (vii) improve rural employment and incomes; and (viii) alleviate poverty.
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy
2.1   China faces a major challenge to feed its vast and growing population. Population growth,
and higher per capita use as a result of higher incomes, will increase annual grain consumption
from 480 million ton at present to 700 million ton by 2020. The Ninth Five Year Plan (1996-2001),
aims to increase China's grain production to 500 million tons, along with substantial gains in cotton
and oilseeds.
2.2   With 22 percent of the world's population and only 7 percent of the arable land, China has to
make up for the loss of land to cities and industries by more intensive use of farm land. About one-
half of China's 100 million ha of cultivated land is currently irrigated. The productivity of irrigated
land averages twice that of rainfed land and is less subject to losses caused by drought. Since 1949,
the area under irrigation has grown from 20 to 50 million hectares, and irrigated land now produces
70 percent of the total grain output and about 80 percent of fruit and vegetables. Almost all of the
future increases in grain production will have to come from irrigated lands. In some areas, flood
control, drainage and salinity control offer prospects for higher agricultural production; so far,
drainage works have reclaimed 4.8 million hectares of saline land and eliminated waterlogging on
19 million hectares.



Page 3
2.3   To enable further growth in agricultural production and to satisfy the anticipated growth in
municipal and industrial demand, it is estimated that China's available water resources would need
to increase to 670 billion m3 by 2010 if existing water use requirements are maintained. It is
estimated that only about one half of this increased demand can be met through additional
development of water resources, the remainder will need to be met through water savings or demand
management. In recognition of these problems the Governments of China and of Shaanxi have
concluded that major water use efficiency gains are essential to meet and counteract the growing
demand and water scarcity.
2.4   The key issues for sustainability in the irrigation sub-sector are how to: (a) pay for irrigation
and drainage improvement investments and operation and maintenance (O&M); (b) achieve more
efficient management of the irrigation systems; (c) increase local participation and "ownership" of
irrigation; and (d) design, implement, operate and maintain irrigation projects to higher technical,
institutional and financial standards. In addition to improvement of irrigation facilities and gains in
agriculture production, there is a need for irrigation management reforms to satisfy the above
agenda. The project provides an opportunity to support much-needed reform programs in
management and operation and maintenance through turnover of O&M responsibilities and
improved physical and financial sustainability. The need for such reforms is strongly supported by
China's Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) as reflected in ongoing water resources sector work
carried out with support from ADB, World Bank and other donors.
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
3.1   Issues and strategies   The expansion of China's irrigation systems has produced major
gains in crop production and farm incomes, but expenditures on new infrastructure has strained the
resources available from the central government and the provinces for the upgrading of older
infrastructure works. Also at the local level (cities, counties and townships) collection of water
charges from the farmers falls often short of the funds needed for operation and maintenance
(O&M). Financial and organizational aspects related to water charges, aimed at increased economic
and financial efficiency and overall sustainability of irrigation investments and institutions, require
strengthening. Greater direct participation of water users in the management of irrigation systems is
needed to achieve this.
3.2   Upgrading existing systems The situation in the project areas is typical of the problems and
opportunities of China's irrigation sector. The dams, weirs, canals and pumping stations, mostly
older than 25 years and some dating back to the 1930s, are in need of repair and/or replacement.
But revenues from water sales are too low to cover the cost of repairs or replacements. Water use is
lower than it should be because of problems in the main systems and distortions in water
management at the farm level and the collection of water charges. This limits the Irrigation
Districts' earning power and their ability to finance improvements. The project will rehabilitate and
upgrade existing irrigation systems mainly through investments in technical improvements of
storage facilities, diversion headworks, pumping stations and main and minor irrigation and
drainage networks, on-farm development works, and institutional support and development. With
good quality agricultural support services already in place, the project will maximize the benefits
from irrigation and drainage investments and will utilize better the limited land resources available
for agriculture.
3.3   Irrigation management reform      A major problem faced by almost all irrigation and



Page 4
drainage systems in China is inadequate O&M, which is due primarily to insufficient government
budget support, low water charges, inefficient collection and inadequate participation from the
irrigation water users. This has resulted in a vicious cycle of new investment, system deterioration,
and then rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage systems. The project would address these
problems by providing support for: (i) measures to strengthen the sustainability of irrigation and
drainage O&M and irrigated agriculture; (ii) reforms to make irrigation management more efficient
and responsive to users; (iii) increased participation of entrepreneurs and farmers in operation and
maintenance practices and decision making; and (iv) improved irrigation system performance. The
above measures would lead to effective decentralization of irrigation services, and better cost
recovery. A recent government policy is to encourage the provinces to reform the way irrigation
systems are managed, which will be supported under the project.
3.4    Water charges      There are several weaknesses in the present arrangements for charging
for water. First, water charges at the farm level are often combined with levies of the local
governments and, therefore, the price for a unit of water is set at a level needed to meet tax targets.
Thus, the cost of water to the farmer appears to be much higher than if he had to pay a single water
fee. Second, only a small part of the funds collected are used for improvement or repair of the
irrigation works. Third, the Irrigation Districts that supply the water have difficulty in obtaining
their portion of the funds collected; this lowers their capacity and incentive to deliver a reliable
supply. Finally, the high charges and low reliability combine to discourage the farmers from
irrigating their land, which in turn further reduces the revenue of the Irrigation Districts. The
project will address the financial and organizational aspects related to water charges aimed at
increased economic efficiency and overall sustainability of irrigation investments and to eventually
expand the new concepts to other areas in Shaanxi.
C:   Project Description Summary
1.    Project components and cost (project description see Annex 2; project cost see Annex 3)
1.1   Project description   The Guanzhong Plain in the Wei River Valley, in which the nine
Irrigation Districts under the project are located, is Shaanxi's main production base for grain, cotton
and oilseeds. It relies on irrigated agriculture to achieve high, sustainable yields. Although the nine
irrigation areas are already equipped with irrigation and drainage systems, land development and
agricultural services, a significant part of the areas needs improvement and some tracts of land
remain to be adequately developed. Most of the existing irrigation and drainage systems, including
water storage and diversion infrastructure facilities, are several decades old, have suffered from poor
design and construction standards and inadequate operation and maintenance (O&M) due to lack of
resources, and are now in need of rehabilitation. Consequently, the performance of these systems
has gradually deteriorated. In addition, for some of the systems the secondary and minor canal
networks and on-farm development works were never fully completed, and in some cases never
built at all. Relatively modest investments in the improvement and completion of these systems can
yield high returns. Critical needs include: (a) irrigation and drainage infrastructure rehabilitation
and completion; (b) use of both ground and surface water; (c) on-farm development works
improvement and expansion; (d) institutional strengthening and irrigation management reform; (e)
increased farmers participation in O&M; and (f) introducing realistic water pricing. The project
would support investments and address institutional constraints in these critical areas.



Page 5
1.2    The project would improve existing physical infrastructure and management procedures for
water delivery to end users at the lateral level and below in nine project areas', which provide
irrigation to about 524,000 ha in the Guanzhong Plain in the Wei River Valley of Shaanxi Province.
The project seeks to:
*  Raise existing diversion weirs to increase storage capacity, and repair and strengthen
existing storage facilities, and construct water transfer tunnel (component 1);
*  Upgrade 600 km of main and branch canals, extend 200 km of drainage systems,
repair or replacement of 25 major structures, rehabilitate 50 pumping stations and
install new pumps, motors, auxiliary equipment, and transmission lines (component
2);
*  Upgrade existing minor canals, drains and on-farm development works on 180,000
ha of partially irrigated land and expand or construct new systems on 50,000 ha of
land that is not presently irrigated (component 3);
*  Reform irrigation management at main and minor system  level, improve access
roads and O&M buildings, and install monitoring and communications equipment
(component 4).
2.     Summary ofproject components and costs
Component            Category       Cost Incl.     % of        Bank-         % of
Contingencies   Total   disbursements    Bank-
(US$M)                   (US$M)      financing
1. Improvement and expansion    physical          48.5      24.3         32.4          67
of water source
2. Improvement of major        physical           69.8      34.9         47.9           69
distribution system
3. Improvement and expansion    physical          39.2      19.6         11.8           30
of minor distribution system
4. Improvement of O&M         management           5.2       2.6          4.3           83
policy
institutional
5. Training, study tours and  institutional        1.8       0.9          1.8          100
technical assistance
6. Project management         management           4.0       2.0          1.0           25
7. Survey, design and         management           4.4       2.2           -             -
supervision                 physical
8. Land acquisition and        physical            4.8       2.4           -             -
resettlement               management
9. Front-end fee (1% of IBRD    financial          0.8       0.4          0.8          100
Loan)
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                            178.6      89.3        100.0           56
10. Interest during construction   financial      21.4      10.7          -              -
TOTAL COST                                200.0    100.0         100.0          50
'The nine subprojects and their originally designed irrigation areas are: Baojixia - 194,810 ha; Jinghuiqu - 89,360 ha,
Jiaokou - 79,820 ha; Taoqupo -21,220 ha; Shitouhe - 24,670 ha; Fengjiashan - 90,910 ha; Yangmaowan 21,330 ha;
Luohuiqu 49,550 ha; and Shibuchuan 20,670 ha. Total 592,340 ha.



Page 6
3.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3.1   The project will support Shaanxi's efforts to: (i) ensure more rational and efficient use of
limited land and water resources in the Guanzhong Plain; (ii) modernize existing infrastructure, in
particular pumping plant and canals through lining; (iii) organize efficient water user participation
in operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems below the branch canal outlets;
(iv) ensure physical and financial sustainability of irrigation; (v) improve cost recovery; and (vi)
protect and improve the quality of the environment.
4. Benefits and target population
4.1   The project will aim to: (a) increase grain production to 4.4 million tons per year, which is
about 20% above the average production during 1991-96; (b) increase employment opportunities
through the expansion of the irrigated area by about 50,000 ha; (c) increase incomes for farmers in
the project areas; (d) increase the cultivation of cash crops with higher net returns; (e) introduce
better irrigation methods leading to improved and more efficient water use; (f) support irrigation
management reforms, aimed to improve the organizational, financial and technical sustainability of
operation and maintenance; and (g) delegate responsibilities for operation and maintenance below
the branch canal outlets to water-users and others.
4.2   Shaanxi has a population of about 34 million people, of which 80% is directly or indirectly
involved in agriculture. The total population in the nine irrigation areas to be improved under the
project amounts to about 6.8 million, of which 5.5 million are associated with the agricultural
sector. Major cities, such as Xian, Yangling, Weinan and Tongchuan are located within the nine
Irrigation Districts and depend on them for the supply of grains, vegetables, cooking oil and other
crops. The current average net income per capita for the project area ranges from about Yuan 500
to Yuan 665 per annum ($62 to $83, assuming an average farm size of 1 mu).
5.    Institutional and implementation arrangements
5.1   Project Leading Group   Project implementation will be guided and monitored by a
Project Leading Group (PLG) chaired by Shaanxi's Vice Governor for Agriculture and comprised
of the directors of the Water Conservancy Bureau, Planning Commission, Finance Bureau, Land
Administration Bureau, and the Agricultural Development Office. Project Management Offices
(PMOs) have been set up at the provincial level within the Water Conservancy Bureau and in each
of the Irrigation District offices.
5.2   Provincial Project Management Office   The Provincial Project Management Office
(PPMO) have been set up as a separate office of the Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau
(PWCB). The staff will total about 20. The PMO Director and Deputy Director will be seconded
from the Water Conservancy Bureau. They will be at the level of deputy director and chief
engineer, and charged with the daily operation of the PMO. Three divisions will be established:
Engineering, Planning and Finance and General Services. The duties of the PPMO will be to: (i)
serve as a link between the Bank, the Provincial Finance Bureau, the WCB and the IDs; (ii) review
and approve the preparation of ICB tenders for civil works and goods, NCB bids for civil works
with values in excess of US$0.6 million, and bid evaluation and award recommendations put
forward by the WCB; (iii) process requests for disbursement from the IDs, including verification
and consolidation and preparation and submission of withdrawal applications to the World Bank
Division (WBD) in the Provincial Finance Bureau; (iv) receive Bank/IDA funds disbursed from the



Page 7
Special Account and pass them on to the IDs, (for the four City owned IDs this will be via the City
Finance Bureaus); (v) manage receipt and disbursement of the Province's and local Government's
counterpart contributions and maintain a Counterpart Fund Account; (vi) carry out field inspections
to verify payment claims, physical progress and quality of work; (vii) prepare financial statements
and physical and financial progress reports, including procurement; and (viii) periodically update
project cost estimates.
5.3   Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau   The provincial Water Conservancy Bureau
(PWCB) will have overall responsibility for the technical execution of the project. The PWCB,
through its Project Management Office, will: (a) manage the design and construction of major
works such as new dams and the raising of existing dams carried out under ICB contracts and NCB
contracts estimated to cost in excess of US$0.6 million; and (b) manage, with assistance from a
National Tendering Corporation, the procurement under ICB of civil works, pumps, motors and
other equipment. The PPMO will be the "Employer" for such contracts. Also, the PPMO will
review and approve all NCB contracts processed by the nine Irrigation Districts (IDs).
5.4. Irrigation District Project Management Office An Irrigation District Project Management
Office (IDPMO) will be established in each Irrigation District and assigned the following duties: (i)
review and approve the preparation of NCB bid documents and the bid evaluation and award
recommendations put forward by the Irrigation District for those contracts to cost US$0.6 million or
less; (ii) receive, review, approve and pass on to the PPMO periodic requests for disbursement
against contractor payment certificates and unit price applications for minor works, including land
leveling programs; (iii) make payments to contractors; (iv) carry out physical spot checks of minor
works and land leveling works to verify disbursement applications; (v) prepare financial statements
and reports on physical and financial progress; and (vi) periodically update cost estimates.
5.5  Irrigation District  Each Irrigation District (ID) will: (i)  manage the design and
construction of the major distribution system improvement works and refurbishing of the pumping
stations; (ii) process NCB contracts; (iii) install the pump station equipment referred to above; and
(iv) provide technical assistance and supervision of the design and construction of minor irrigation,
drainage and land leveling works below the branch canals carried out by Cities, Counties,
Townships and beneficiaries.
5.6   The City and County Water Conservancy Bureaus will be responsible for organizing and
executing design and implementation of minor irrigation works, with technical guidance from IDs.
They also will be responsible for planning, design and implementation of on-farm development
programs, including farm ditches and land leveling. IDPMOs will provide technical and financial
guidance to the WCBs of the Cities and Counties and oversee the implementation of the minor
irrigation, drainage and on-farm development works.
5.7   Financing arrangements  The estimated project cost is US$200 million (Yuan 1660
million). An IBRD Loan of US$80 million and an IDA Credit of SDR 14.7 million (US$20 million
equivalent) will finance 50% of the project cost. About US$100 million (Yuan 830 million) will be
financed by provincial, local governments and beneficiaries (Annex 5: Financing Plan). Repayment
of the Bank Loan and IDA Credit will be the responsibility of the Government of China, who will
recover from the Shaanxi Government. In turn the Shaanxi Government will recover from local
governments and project beneficiaries. The terms of on-lending the IBRD Loan and IDA have been



Page 8
agreed between the Central Government and the Government of Shaanxi. The Ministry of Finance
(MOF) will on-lend the IBRD Loan of US$80 million to Shaanxi's Finance Bureau on terms and
conditions as received from the Bank: 20 year repayment and a 5 year grace period, Bank charged
interest rate, a 1% front-end fee and a 0.75% commitment fee. MOF will on-lend Shaanxi the IDA
Credit of US$20 million equivalent on the same terms and conditions as received from IDA, with
the exception that the grace period will be reduced to 5 years and the repayment period to 17 years.
5.8   Foreign exchange risks will be borne by Shaanxi. Commitments from the provincial and
local govermments to provide adequate and timely counterpart funding have been provided. The
PPMO will submit to the Bank by December 1 of each year, the annual work program for each
Irrigation District, financial plans and budgets for the following year's implementation plans. The
submission will include evidence that the Provincial and Local Governments will provide adequate
and timely counterpart funding.
5.9   Financial management    Procedures for management of Bank funds will be improved
in accordance with OD 10.02. Because of past Bank Group supported projects the Provincial
Finance Bureau staff are familiar with past financial management requirements of the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the Bank. Most project expenditures will be made through ICB/NCB contracts
and will be properly documented. Agreed unit-rates will be used for minor irrigation system works
and land leveling procured through force account. This will help to simplify financial management
for the project.
5.10 The project's Financial Management System (FMS) aspects (budgeting, accounting, internal
control, auditing and reporting), staffing and equipment requirements have been analyzed. Plans,
procedures, guidelines and reporting and staffing requirements for an improved FMS to be adopted
under the project have been confirmed by all parties concerned. Detailed guidelines for the
introduction of the improved FMS are provided in the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan
(PIP). They include plans for strengthening financial management capacities of the Provincial
Finance Bureau, City Finance Bureaus, the Provincial PMO and IDPMOs, including staff training.
5.11  The Special Account (SA) for the Bank/IDA funds will be kept in the Provincial Finance
Bureau (PFB). A World Bank Division (WBD) in the PFB has managed Bank supported projects in
the past and its staff is familiar with the processing of withdrawal applications and disbursement of
funds. The PPMO will review disbursement requests from the IDPMOs, make changes, if
necessary, in consultation with the IDPMO and prepare withdrawal applications. These will be
forwarded to the Financial and Accounting Unit of the WBD for review and, if they are found to be
correct, withdrawals will be made from the Special Account and the funds will be transferred to the
PPMO. The PPMO will then distribute the funds to the finance divisions of the IDs owned by the
province. Funds to be disbursed to the City owned IDs will be sent directly to the City Finance
Bureaus, but only after the PPMO has signed off on the transfer. The WBD will also process
requests from the PPMO for direct payments to suppliers from the Special Account. Financial
management and control systems for the project, including tabular formats for financial reporting,
have been confirmed.
5.12  Project records and accounts, including the Special Account, for each fiscal year would be
audited, and the annual audit report would be submitted to the Bank by each July 1 of the following
year. The Shaanxi Provincial Audit Bureau would be retained as the auditor for the project.



Page 9
5.13  Monitoring and reporting   The PPMO will monitor the project's physical and financial
progress and prepare six-monthly progress reports. It will instruct the IDPMO's to monitor and
report physical and financial progress in their areas.  This will include monitoring of key
performance indicators as listed in Annex 1. The PPMO would carry out regular technical
inspections in the project areas, of which the major findings will be summarized in the progress
reports. These reports are to be submitted to the Bank by August 15 of each year covering the
preceding January to June period and by February 15 for the preceding July to December period. A
mid-term review will be undertaken by June 1, 2002. Prior to that, not later than March 1, 2002 the
PPMO will prepare a mid-term report that will summarize the results of monitoring and evaluation,
identify problems encountered during implementation, revise project costs, and discuss measures to
complete the project as scheduled. The Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for
the project will be furnished to the Bank within six months after the Loan Closing Date.
5.14 Periodic monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the lateral systems turnover and ID
management reform efforts will be implemented during the entire project implementation period.
The M&E will: (i) consider the lateral turnover program developments within the broader ID
management reform program, and provide guidance for changes where this may be beneficial; and
(ii) provide guidance and planning advice for continued enhancement and strengthening of the ID
management reform process.
5.15 Under the M&E program random evaluation of the management reform program will be
carried out. Specialist services will be obtained primarily from an NGO, such as a local university,
who will assist with the implementation of the M&E program. The services will be used to assist
the PPMO, and would be implemented in close cooperation with the PPMO and/or ID staff. Such
assistance is expected to include the organization of periodic seminars to: (i) present and review
progress made with the irrigation management reform program; (ii) discuss issues arising and
develop solutions or action programs; and (iii) present lessons and experience from similar national
and international reform program.
D:    Project Rationale
1.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
1.1  Inclusion of the project in a possible Adaptable Project Lending (APL) operation for Water
Conservation and Rehabilitation of Large Scale Irrigation Projects in China's Northern Plain was
considered and discussed with the Government of China. It was rejected because: (i) a free-standing
operation in the water resources sector for Shaanxi Province only was preferred; and (ii)
Governnent of China and Shaanxi Province wanted this to be processed as fast as possible. The
latter was considered more likely to happen as a free-standing operation than as part of an APL.
1.2   Following the policy directives issued by the State Planning Commission (SPC) in
December 1997 Shaanxi Province has taken steps to initiate irrigation management reform
programs in the Guanzhong Plain. They are aimed at: (i) management reform of the Irrigation
Districts; and (ii) transfer of O&M of the minor irrigation systems (the lateral canal level and
below) to individual contractors , water user associations or joint stock cooperative organizations.
Consideration was given to the exclusive introduction under the project of one "turnover" model
only. However, this approach was rejected in favor of following a more flexible approach which
acknowledges variable physical conditions and preferences of farmers.



Page 10
1.3    There are no practical alternatives for the improvement of existing infrastructure facilities.
The new minor distribution systems could have been excluded, but this would deny many families
of irrigation benefits enjoyed by other farmers in adjacent areas.
2.     Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector Issue                     Project               Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
1. Improvement of irrigation and         Northern Irrigation      Closed            S
drainage systems                          Project             12/31/97
($72.7 million)         S
2. Expansion of irrigation and water    Shaanxi Agriculture       Closed            U
supply systems and agriculture      Development Project       6/30/97
support.                               ($106.0 million)          U
3. Improvement of irrigation and        Irrigated Agriculture       HS             HS
drainage systems and agriculture    Intensification Project
services improvement                   ($335.0 million)
4. Improvement of irrigation and        Tarim Basin Project       Closed           HS
drainage systems and environmental      ($125.0 million)      12/31/97
river management                                                 S
5. Improvement of irrigation and         Henan Agriculture           S              S
drainage systems and strengthening  Development Project
agriculture services                   ($110.0 million)
6. Improvement of irrigation and          Hebei Agriculture          S              S
drainage systems and agriculture     Development Project
services improvement                   ($149.9 million)
7. Improvement of irrigation and        Yangtze Basin Water          S              S
drainage systems, strengthening       Resources Project
farmer participation in O&M and         ($210.0 million)
river basin management           I_I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3.     Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
3.1    The Bank has supported 16 water resource and irrigation projects in China over the last 17
years serving more than 5 million hectares. Generally, these projects have been implemented
efficiently, and time and cost overruns have not been excessive despite periods of sharp price
escalation. Likewise rates of return have equaled or exceeded appraisal estimates. The best
performing projects have generally been those where Water Conservancy Bureaus at all
administrative levels had a leading role in project design, planning, and implementation.



Page 11
3.2   Key lessons from previous Bank supported water resources projects are that: (i) detailed
organizational and staff arrangements should be formulated and agreed before implementation; (ii)
counterpart funding should be committed and secured at all levels of government before
implementation, based on an accurate and realistic year-by-year project financing plan; (iii) project
design should support the "user pays" principle; (iv) active participation of beneficiaries from the
initial project formulation stages into the operation and maintenance stage  would increase
effectiveness of project implementation and performance; (v) irrigation, drainage and flood
protection investments should include adequate cost recovery levels from beneficiaries; (vi) projects
should include institutional development support for the strengthening of provincial and local Water
Conservancy Bureaus; (vii) baseline data of key performance indicators should be established for all
components before or at appraisal; and (viii) the project launch workshop and/or initial Bank
supervision missions should focus first on resolving procurement and disbursement issues.
3.3   The Shaanxi ADP project, which was closed mid-1997, has been rated unsatisfactory. This
is due mainly to the delayed completion of the Donglei Lift Irrigation Scheme, caused by
organizational, procurement and funding problems. Lessons learned from the design and
implementation of the Donglei Scheme have been taken into account for the formulation of this
project. Some of these lessons are the need for: (i) compliance with the Bank's procedures for
procurement of goods and works; (ii) adequate and timely counterpart funding; (iii) water user
participation in O&M of irrigation systems; and (iv) efficient coordination between the various
provincial and local government agencies involved in project implementation.
4.   Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership
4.1   Good feasibility and other reports in English were prepared by Shaanxi in an efficient and
timely manner and adequate arrangements have been put in place for project preparation and
implementation. Generally, Shaanxi has been cooperative and responsive in providing data and
information needed for efficient and timely processing of the project.
4.2    The Govermment of Shaanxi has taken steps towards irrigation management reform,
including the transfer of O&M responsibilities of minor systems to water users. There is strong
general support for the project from provincial leadership and strong commitment to proceed with
essential reforms, with or without World Bank support.
4.3   While there have been problems with the implementation of the Donglei Lift Scheme
component under Shaanxi ADP, the provincial leaders are determined to avoid these problems
under the project. Government of Shaanxi is committed to provide the necessary funds to complete
the Donglei component by end 1999.
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project
5.1   Shaanxi has a long and successful history with irrigation and drainage development and is
committed to improve institutional, technical and financial aspects of water management in the
Guanzhong Plain. The project would help to accelerate irrigation management reforms. The Bank,
considering its past involvement and experience with large water resources development projects in
China, has the expertise to help Shaanxi to: (i) modernize existing infrastructure; (ii) support
irrigation management reform, including turning over O&M of minor systems to independent
operators and water users; (iii) promote efficient use of limited land and water resources, greater



Page 12
crop diversification and increased agricultural production; (iv) protect and improve the
environment; and (v) recover operation and maintenance and a reasonable portion of the investment
costs through enforcing appropriate levels of water charges. Bank involvement will accelerate the
rehabilitation of irrigation systems in the Guanzhong Plain and has convinced PMO/WCB to pay
more attention to economical and financial analysis. As a result the proposed Xijao dam was deleted
from the project and the water saving technology component scaled down. In addition, Bank
involvement made Shaanxi decide to pay closer attention to ensure financial sustainability of the
Irrigation Districts, and to the resettlement and environmental aspects under the project.
5.2   Bank involvement will help all levels of Government in Shaanxi to address organizational,
technical and financial improvements in the irrigation sector and to take into account the
achievements and lessons learnt from the implementation of the Donglei Lift Scheme component
under Shaanxi ADP.
E:    Summary Project Analysis
1.    Economic analysis (see Annex 4)
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 117 million (RMB 967 million); ERR= 26%.
1.1.   The project will substantially increase the incomes of about 5.5 million rural people, who
belong to the poorest in China. Irrigation of the fertile loess soils is beneficial, as it generally
doubles the yields of most agricultural crops and secures a stable and reliable income in a farmning
environment, which is threatened by frequent and severe droughts. The benefits of the project will
arise from a combination of institutional and management reforms and investments in infrastructure
works. About 330,000 ha will receive more reliable irrigation supplies and about 50,000 ha of
currently rainfed land will be irrigated for the first time. The benefits from increased agricultural
production in the various IDs have been quantified; the economic rates of return (ERR) range from
15 to 38 percent for the individual IDs with an overall ERR of 26 percent for the project. The ERR
in some IDs seems to be relatively high for investment in irrigation development. However, there
are significant sunk-costs in all IDs and the benefits arising from the management reform programs
require little investment. In addition the reform efforts are catalyzed by improvements of critical
physical infrastructure.
1.2   Other important benefits of the project, which have not been quantified,  arise from
investments in dam rehabilitation and dam safety monitoring, which will reduce the risk of dam
failure. Dam failures might cause costly damage in downstream areas and require significant
replacement expenditures. The project will also improve surface water use efficiency resulting in
less reliance on groundwater. This will provide relief to areas where the current rate of groundwater
extraction appears to exceed recharge. The project will therefore contribute to the preservation of a
valuable natural resource: groundwater, the main source for cities, towns and industries.
2.    Financial analysis (see Annex 4)
2.1   Financial impact on Irrigation Districts (IDs)    The management reform at the lateral
canal level and below will introduce private sector management principles in distribution and sales
of irrigation water. This will lead to a high level of transparency and discipline in all transactions
and payments with significant efficiency gains. The combination of management reform and
improvement of physical infrastructure will allow each of the nine IDs to sell more water with lower



Page 13
overhead costs per unit of water sold. This will generate sufficient income to cover fully the
operational costs and to maintain the irrigation system so that performance will not deteriorate. This
will result in the IDs becoming financially sustainable and independent from government funding.
2.2   Farm income        Typical farms have been selected to model the changes in income
resulting from the project. All farm incomes will benefit significantly from the project. In absolute
terms annual farm incomes will increase between RMB 1,500 and RMB 4,200. The relative increase
in income will be highest for smaller farms. They are projected to triple. Small farmers tend to
suffer more from poor irrigation than richer farmers, who often have also access to groundwater.
Returns to labor will also increase significantly, again with the largest gain for the smaller farms.
2.3   Cost recovery  Investments in major irrigation works would be recovered through the water
charges levied. Water costs in the "with project" situation differ from ID to ID and range from 6
Fen to 21 Fen per m3. The large cost difference is caused by the amount of pumping required; some
IDs have negligible pumping whereas others have to pump most of the water. Loan and interest
repayment provisions have been included in the water costs. Their share in the water cost ranges
from 1.1 Fen in Fengjiashan ID to 10.9 Fen per m3 in Taoqupo ID. For full cost recovery, including
loan and interest repayment, irrigation water can be sold to the lateral operators at prices between 6
Fen in the lowest and 24 Fen per m3. This will allow setting water charges for farmers in some cases
significantly lower as compared with current payments. Nevertheless, total income for the IDs is
estimated to almost triple in the future.
2.4   Farmers and lateral operators would finance about 30% of investment requirements for the
minor distribution system from the World Bank. The remaining costs would come from their own
contribution mostly by providing their labor. The annual loan and interest repayment costs for
individual farms would be less than 10% of the incremental annual income.
3.    Technical
3.1   The project components have no unusual technical features. The Province, in particular the
Water Conservancy Bureau, the Shaanxi Design and Research Institute (SDRI) and the Irrigation
Districts, all have considerable experience in: (i) design and construction of irrigation and drainage
works; (ii) preparation of bills of quantities and technical specifications for works and goods; and
(iii) in preparation of cost estimates. Investment cost for the project's major works were found to
be well prepared and realistic.
3.2   Wei river basin    The Wei River is the largest tributary of the Yellow River. It rises in
the Wushu Mountains of Gansu Province. The Wei river basin area covers about 63,000 km2, with
34,000 km2 of this in Shaanxi , 23,000 km2 in Gansu and 6,000 km2 in Ning Xia province. The
current and future water use from the Wei river basin in Ning Xia Province will be negligible. The
maximum irrigable area in Gansu that can be realistically supplied from Wei River & tributaries is
estimated at 1.12 million mu (75,000 ha). The currently irrigated area is 880,000 mu (59,000 ha).
To supply this area the demand from the Wei River is estimated at around 570 Mm3 per annum, of
which 200 Mm3 is extracted from groundwater. Other potential development areas in Gansu are
small high level valley plateaus, largely dependent on groundwater. As this source is deep, costs for
development and utilization are generally prohibitive. It is estimated that the future projected
demand in Gansu will not exceed 800 Mm3, mainly because additional land suitable for irrigation is
scarce. Additionally, irrigation of this land would require heavy investments in storage facilities,



Page 14
which also appear to be prohibitive. It is therefore concluded that future development in Gansu will
have limited impact on the availability and reliability of water flowing into the Wei river and its
tributaries, and through into Shaanxi.
3.3    Water supply and demand  The water supply and demand situation for the project area
was analyzed with a simplified demand model by the Shaanxi Design and Research Institute
(SDRI). They carried out an operations study for each of the nine Irrigation Districts with demands
projected through to 2013, assuming that upgraded and new facilities, as currently planned, would
be completed. General assumptions used in the model were:
*  Irrigation water demands are for cropped areas at full development. Other non-
agricultural water demands are projected up to year 2013;
*  Time interval used is ten days and the model is run for an average water year;
*  The model allows for interconnections between IDs;
*  Upstream diversions in Gansu are in line with agreed allocations;
*  Allowance is made for canal closures during high sediment flows;
*  Groundwater pumping capacity is based on studies of safe yields;
*  Municipal and industrial demands have priority over irrigation.
The study concluded that that the two largest IDs -- Baojixia and Fengjiashan -- will have a surplus of
surface water in an average year and there will be no shortages in other IDs. In a below-average water
year, cut backs in water deliveries would lead to reduced crop yields in those areas that have no access
to groundwater. Increased use of groundwater may impact upon Wei River flows, but this was not
taken into account.
3.4  Improvement and expansion of water source    The PMOIWCB retained a Dam Safety
Review Panel (DSRP) of foreign and national experts in June, 1998. The DSRP undertook the first
review of ten existing dams and weirs, the proposed raising of the Linjiacun weir on the Wei river and
the proposed Xijao dam on the Qinghe river. No major issues were identified with the planning and
design features of the proposed raising of the Linjiacun weir. At the Shibuchuan dam cracks in the
downstream face are a source of concern; further investigation is ongoing to determine the exact
cause of the cracks and to find a solution. At the Taoqupo dam the slope above the spillway channel
has to be flattened to make it stable. Some lesser problems were noted at several of the other dams,
and the panel recommended some further investigations in order to define the need for remedial
works. The findings and recommendations made by the DSRP have been reviewed and technical
and economical assessments were made to determine viability of the remedial works on the dams.
DSRP's recommendations have been adopted by Shaanxi and will be implemented under the project.
3.5  Improvement of major distribution systems
3.5.1  Pumpingplant      The rehabilitation of pumping plant is necessary, appropriate and
cost-effective and in line with modern industry technical standards. The condition of the buildings
have deteriorated seriously in some cases and are unfit for continued long-term use. Replacement
with slightly larger buildings incorporating overhead cranes is both necessary and appropriate in
order to comply with modem standards of safety and maintenance practice. The specifications for
pumps and motors and associated electrical and mechanical equipment were reviewed in detail. A
variety of technical improvements were identified and documented for inclusion in the technical



Page 15
specifications. These improvements center mainly on better specifications for pump materials, better
enclosure standards for motors and improved dust-proofing and enclosure of electrical panels.
Assessments were also made of the design of pump intakes, prevention of pump impeller cavitation
and the layout of pump houses. Improved design procedures and methods of calculation ensure that
the suction capability of pumps is correctly calculated and specified. The cost estimates for
rehabilitation of the pumping plant were found to be realistic for the scopes of work involved.
Procurement packaging and implementation schedules were also assessed.
3.5.2 Canal improvement The key factors influencing overall canal conveyance efficiency
include: (i) seepage losses; (ii) flow measurement methods and structures; (iii) impact of canal
lining and its susceptibility to frost heave; and (iv) sediment management. The assessment findings
confirm that WCB's lining designs to replace badly damaged lining and for new lining. are
technically viable for use in the project. They have been tested successfully in the project area for
two or more seasons.
3.5.3 Drain repair and reshaping The project includes a drainage improvement component in
lowland areas of Luohuiqu, Jiaokou, Jinghuiqu and Baojixia IDs, which are located adjacent to the
Wei River. The drainage works are required mainly for surface water removal, but also for salinity
control and groundwater management. Engineering criteria and cost estimates were found to be
appropriate for the project conditions.
3.5.4 Repair & replacement of major structures The critical condition of major structures (inlet
works, bifurcations, tunnels, pump stations, aqueducts and siphons), particularly for impact in event
of failure, and proposed measures for remedial works have been analyzed. It confirmed the need for
improvements to guarantee security of flows to critical downstream command areas, including the
low yield land improvement and expansion areas.
3.6  Improvement and expansion of minor distribution system    Assessments have been made
of: (i) reshaping of existing lateral and sub-lateral canals with repair and/or addition of lining in
about 180,000 ha throughout the nine IDs; and (ii) earthworks and lining for new lateral and sub-
lateral canals in about 50,000 ha throughout the nine IDs, currently without minor irrigation
facilities. These were found to be essential to successful project implementation. The land leveling
requirements in the 50,000 ha expansion area were analyzed and found to be realistic.
3.7    Water saving technology The proposed large scale demonstrations of drip and sprinkler
installations in Baojixia and Luohuiqu IDs have been analyzed. It was concluded that the investment
would not be attractive for the average farmer in the project area. Since significant experience has
already been gained with applying on-farm water saving technologies in Shaanxi and elsewhere in
China, these and possible new methods will be studied under the project during the first two years
of project implementation. Provisions have been included for that purpose. Modest investments in
financially viable on-farm technologies could be financed in the later project years, depending on
the outcome of the studies.
3.8   Operation and maintenance     Farmers in the project area acknowledged the need for
improved delivery of irrigation water to their fields. Physical improvements to be carried out
throughout the irrigation systems in the nine IDs, including improvements of O&M facilities such
as access roads and buildings, will help to improve the situation and are therefore justified.



Page 16
3.9   Communication system  The technical features of new microwave communication facilities
for the nine IDs, cost estimates, procurement packaging and installation arrangements have been
assessed. They were found to be acceptable and essential for efficient operation and appropriate for
the intended uses. The system is to enhance management and planning procedures for improved
water dispatch, control and delivery from headworks to lateral head inlets.
4.    Institutional
4.1   Executing agencies The WCB/PPMO  will also have overall responsibility for the
technical execution of the project. Key management, technical and financial staff have been
seconded from the WCB and SDRI to the PPMO. The PPMO will: (i) manage the design and
construction of several major works such as new dams and the raising of existing dams carried out
under ICB contracts; and (ii) manage, with assistance from a National Tendering Corporation, the
procurement under ICB of pumps, motors and other equipment. The PPMO will be the "Employer"
for large ICB/NCB contracts, and will also oversee the NCB contracts to be implemented under the
direct supervision of the nine Irrigation Districts (IDPMO's). The project's nine Irrigation Districts2,
through their PMOs, will be responsible for implementing most of the project activities in their
service area.
4.2   Major system management reform    Efficient management practices are key aspects for
the future successful operation of the improved systems. The reform efforts will address the need
for: (i) organizational changes within each Irrigation District; (ii) staffing changes and better defined
job descriptions, responsibilities, lines of command and performance incentive programs; (iii)
enhancement of financial management, accounting and administrative procedures; (iv) training of
staff; and (v) improvement of the O&M rules, regulations and procedures. Plans are already in place
for reduction of personnel in each Irrigation District. To accommodate staff reductions, whilst
improving and/or expanding the command area, training and study tours will be provided to
improve skills. This is expected to improve system management, resulting in more timely and
adequate water delivery to fee paying customers. Technical assistance will be provided as needed to
assist project management with the reform program.
4.3   Minor system management reform    A program of turning over management of minor
systems to independent operators is ongoing. Several types of management arrangements have been
adopted. In cases where the minor systems are in reasonably good condition, the managers are
selected by the farmers. In other cases water user associations are organized. Where the systems
require rehabilitation, operators or contractors are selected on a competitive basis taking into
account their willingness to invest in improvements. A common feature is that the operators retain a
portion of the water sales revenue to pay for operating personnel and system improvement. Water
charges are collected directly by the operators and not by the local government. As a result funds
are readily available for management and system repairs and the water users see a clear link
between the fees they pay and the quality of service.  Reports from the field suggest that the
reforms are welcomed by the farmers. The project will support and accelerate the turnover program.
Technical assistance will be provided to assist project management with the implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the turnover program.
4.4    Project management      Project management arrangements are designed to ensure good
2 Fengjiashan, Yangmaowan, Taoqupo and Shibuchuan are owned by the Cities of Baoji, XianYang and Weinan
respectively. The remaining five IDs are owned by Shaanxi province.



Page 17
coordination between Government Bureaus and Irrigation Districts associated with project
implementation and the delivery of high quality design and implementation of the project
components. Staff, with experience in managing the implementation of similar projects, has been
appointed to the Provincial and IDPMOs. Project management staff will participate in training and
study tours under the project, to improve: (i) the knowledge and understanding of resources and
assets under their control; (ii) management of technical, financial and administrative tasks; (iii)
monitoring and evaluation of project implementation performance; (iv) physical and financial
progress reporting; and (v) future O&M of project facilities.
4.5   Technical assistance, training and study tours    Project staff will benefit from technical
assistance, specific training programs and participation in study tour opportunities under the project.
The latter will allow them to examine and appreciate how irrigation systems in other parts of China
and other countries are designed and managed. Long term benefits are expected to be gained from
the provision of technical assistance to WCB and Irrigation District personnel.
5.    Social
5.1   Social impact The project will improve the quality of life of a large number of small
farming households in the nine irrigation areas. This arises from the provision of better and more
timely irrigation, resulting in higher yields, increased cropping intensities and the expansion of
irrigated areas. Indirectly many others involved in processing and marketing of farm products will
benefit as well. Additionally, standards of living in villages and townships in the project areas will
improve from the provision of a more reliable water supply.
5.2   Resettlement and land acquisition  The raising of the Linjiacun and Luohuiqu diversion
weirs requires the acquisition of land for the reservoir areas. There are also a limited number of
people who will be affected (PAPs) by land acquisition required for the construction of other
infrastructure works, including canals. The number of Project Affected People (PAP) is 1,133. Of
them 684 will have to be relocated because of the raising of the Linjiacun weir. To mitigate the
adverse impacts of these works, PMO/WCB prepared a comprehensive Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) in accordance with OD 4.30 for the resettlement and compensation requirements of those
affected. The main objective of the RAP is that both the resettled people and the host populations
receiving them, will not be adversely affected by the resettlement, nor will the project have
detrimental impact on their living standard. Resettled families will be moved to locations benefiting
from the project, where their house and amenities will be improved. Their new earming potential
will be at least as good as previously and income losses during the transition period will be
compensated for. The Bank found the RAP, which has been approved by the Government of
Shaanxi, to be satisfactory. It includes: (i) details of people and assets affected; (ii) legal framework
for land acquisition and compensation; (iii) institutional arrangements; (iv) cost details and budget
requirements; (v) implementation schedule; (vi) participation, consultation and grievance
procedures; and (vii) monitoring and evaluation by project agencies and an independent external
group.
5.3   Independent monitoring of the implementation of the RAP will be carried out by the
National Research Center for Resettlement (NRCR). The monitoring will cover: (i) physical
progress with resettlement implementation; (ii) Project Affected People (PAP) livelihood
restoration; (iii) PAP participation in the resettlement process; (iv) grievances and effectiveness of



Page 18
the grievance procedures; and (v) proposed measures for improvement. The RAP is summarized in
Annex 7 and the detailed RAP is available from the project file.
5.4   Role of women     The role of women in irrigated agriculture in the project area was
assessed to understand their current role and how this might be affected by the project. Field surveys
-nd household interviews were conducted to determine: (i) the current role of women in the project
area; and (ii) actions the project could undertake to assist women farmers. The main findings were
that women increasingly are doing more of the farm work, because an appreciable number of men
have migrated to the cities for work. They generally come back only during the harvest season.
Most women know about the project, strongly support it and want to participate in its
implementation. In general the feminization of irrigated agriculture requires the Agricultural Bureau
(AB) to put in place special measures to ensure that: (i) agricultural extension will reach out to
women farmers specifically; (ii) special extension programs are developed for them in the field of
irrigation management; and (iii) monitor the project impact on school children enrollment,
particularly girls.
6.    Environmental assessment: Environmental Category B
6.1   Justification/rationalefor category rating   The project is designated a "B" Category,
because project implementation is not expected to have negative environmental impacts. The
project consists almost entirely of modifications to existing infrastructure (dams, canals, drains,
roads, structures, pumping stations and related works). There exists some badly polluted water in
rivers and canals in the project area, that is used for irrigation, in particular in Jiaokou and Baojixia
IDs. However, the pollution problem is not expected to deteriorate because of the project; in fact
improved water management will be a positive benefit. The Provincial authorities are taking action
to strengthen and enforce pollution control regulations and, therefore, the situation is expected to
improve in the future.
6.2    Environmental impact    An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the project
works has been carried out. It addresses potential adverse environmental impacts satisfactorily.
Particular attention was paid to the adverse effects of the raising of the Linjiacun and Luohuiqu
diversion weirs. The EIA includes an Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan, which
details mitigation measures, monitoring requirements and associated costs. Successful monitoring
requires regular water quality and other environmental analyses and good coordination between
government agencies, such as provincial EPA, WCB and AB. Project works would be implemented
in accordance with the Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan.
7.    Participatory approach
7.1   Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups  Project officials have consulted farmers
who will benefit from improved irrigation and drainage. This consultation, through information
sharing and collaboration, will continue during planning and implementation of irrigation
management reform programs. In general strong support for the project exists among the
beneficiaries, in particular from women farmers. Secondary beneficiaries will be staff of PMO,
WCB and IDs. They will benefit from technical assistance, training and study tours and from
involvement in the irrigation management reform programs. The participatory approach will be used
for the implementation of the minor system and land leveling works.



Page 19
7.2     Other key stakeholders           Irrigation  management reform  will result in the deployment of
O&M staff currently employed by the Irrigation Districts. Some of the ex-ID staff are expected to
compete for the award of long-term contracts for managing O&M of lateral canal systems in close
cooperation with water users. In such cases they will become key stakeholders in the project.
F:   Sustainability and Risks
1.      Sustainability         Project sustainability will depend on: (a) effective project management
arrangements; (b) sound design and implementation standards: (c) strong interagency coordination
at various government levels to ensure equitable water allocation and distribution to and within the
nine IDs; (d) the introduction of efficient and sustainable irrigation management procedures and
effective cost recovery arrangements to assure adequate O&M funding. These elements have been
incorporated in the project design.
2.      Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                           RikRating   Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
*   Timely implementation of good quality project works    M         *   Introduce incentives, staff training to
strengthen management capacity, timely
provision of counterpart funds, good quality
construction supervision
*   Active participation of farmers in O&M of project      M         *   Provide training, information sharing and
facilities                                                           incentive programs
*   Introduce adequate levels of water charges             M         *   Ensure good quality irrigation supplies and
extension services to enable high production
levels
*   Distortions in pricing of project produce              N         *   Diversify crops cultivated in the project
*   Problems with transport and marketing of produce       M         *   Address transport constraints through e.g.
road improvement; and crop promotion
campaigns
*   Input supply shortages                                 M         *   Monitor regional stockpiling and input
___________  _ zpricing
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"
*   On time completion of project design work              M         *   Retain experienced design group; careful and
regular monitoring of design work
performance by PMO and Bank
*   Counterpart funding constraints                         S        *   Monitoring funding commitment and periodic
review with Finance Bureaus
*   Resettlement will be carried out as stipulated in the  M         *   Supervision by Borrower and Bank; ensure
agreed RAP                                                           adequate funding
*   Damage caused by extraordinary floods, droughts or     M         *   Adopt reasonable design standards and
earthquakes                                                          establish crisis management and early
warning systems
*   Dam safety reviews will be conducted in accordance     M         *   Timely recruitment and periodic review by
with agreed plans                                                    DSRP and availability of adequate funds to
carry out reviews
Overall Risk Rating                     Modest    I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.      Possible controversial aspects
None



Page 20
G:   Main Loan Conditions
1.    Effectiveness conditions
Standard
2.    Other conditions
a) Establish and maintain water charges which cover the O&M costs and portion of the
investments made under the project to allow for Loan repayment. PPMO will: (i)
prepare and furnish to the Bank the proposed schedule of water charges in each ID,
including the timetable for its establishment, by December 1, 2001; (ii) submit to the
Bank annually by March 31 (starting 2002) a status report on the collection rate of water
charges, review annually the water charges for each of the nine Irrigation Districts and
adjust the charges to levels needed to cover O&M cost and Loan repayment
requirements; and (iii) maintain separate accounts for water charge collections, and the
use of these funds for O&M of the irrigation and drainage systems and repayment of
Loan.
b) Maintenance of the Project Leading Group, Provincial PMO and PMOs in the nine
Irrigation Districts with terms of reference, resources acceptable to the Bank and
competent staff in adequate numbers.
c) Furnish to the Bank by December 1 of each year work programs including the ID reform
plan and financial plans for the following year, including evidence of adequate
counterpart funding from all levels of Government.
d) Maintenance of separate records and accounts for the project, audit of project records
and accounts including the Special Account and statement of expenditure for each fiscal
year, and submission of the audit report for each fiscal year to the Bank by July 1 of the
following year.
e) (i) Compliance of the project with the Project's Enviromental Management and
Monitoring Plan; (ii) Submission to the Bank by March 31 of each year of a report
summarizing the results of the previous year of environmental management plans for the
project area.
f) By March 1, 2002 an evaluation will be carried out of the irrigation management reform
efforts. The findings and recommendations will be considered during the mid-term
review to be held no later than June 1, 2002.
g) Convene the DSRP at regular intervals to review the status of works in progress on
existing storage facilities and weirs; preparation of an 0 & M plan and emergency
preparedness plan for the Water Storage Facilities included in the Project by June 1,
2002; after completion of works; and undertaking periodic inspection of these facilities
to rectify any safety-related deficiencies.
h) A mid-term review of project implementation will be carried out by June 1, 2002. A



Page 21
report for this review will be prepared and furnished to the Bank not later than March 1,
2002. The report will summarize the results of monitoring and evaluation under the
project, problems encountered during project implementation, revised cost estimates, and
measures recommended to complete the project.
i) Annual overseas training and study tours plans will be submitted to the Bank by
December 1 each year for review.
j) The Project will be implemented in accordance with the RAP, and monitor and report
resettlement semiannually by February 15 and August 15 each year.
H:   Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies. This project involves:
- Environmental Impacts (OP 4.01) (BP 4.01) (GP 4.01)
D Gender Issues (OP 4.20)
D Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)
* Financial Management (OP 10.02) (BP 10.02)
* Local Cost Sharing (GP 6.30) (OP 6.30) (BP 6.30)
* Dam Safety Review (OP 4.37)
Task Team Leader:              Bert L. Kramer
Sector Manager:                Geoffrey B. Fox
Country Director:              Yukon Huang



Page 22
Annex 1
China: Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
Sector-Related CAS Goal:
1) Promote better utilization   1) Expansion of areas under   1) Data made available by  1) Stable political transition,
of marginal lands through   irrigated agriculture       Government of China and      maintenance of reform
introducing sustainable                                 the Government of            program in post-Deng era
techniques              2) Higher overall water use      Shaanxi Province
2) Intensify irrigated          efficiency resulting in                              2) No large external shocks
agriculture production      increased water                                          affecting terms of trade,
3) Sustainable development      availability                                             current account balance or
and management of water                                                              foreign exchange rates
and land resources      3) Increased grain yields and
4) Poverty alleviation          cropping intensities                                 3) Government maintains
budget allocations for food
4) Higher net incomes of                                    security programs
project beneficiaries
Project Development
Objectives:
1) Increase agricultural    1) Crop yields and           1) Statistical information    1) No change in existing
production, in particular   cropping intensities         from Prefecture and         policy framework for
grains and cash crops                                   County Government            agriculture production
2) Increase net incomes of  2) Increased per capita net     agencies                     particularly with regard
project farmers             incomes                                                  to land tenure and
3) Strengthen                                           2) Periodic progress             pricing
organizational, technical 3) Farmers assume O&M         reports on project       2) Demand for agriculture
and financial aspects of    responsibilities,           implementation               production continues to
irrigation management       increased levels of                                      grow at 5% per year.
and O&M                     water charges and                                    3) Government maintains
collection rates                                         commitment for
improved management
of water resources
Outputs:                                                                             (Outputs to Objective)
1) Implementation of        1) Physical parameters of   1) Periodic surveys to test   1) No delays in
physical works              completed works              against benchmark data      implementation of
2) More efficient water use  2) Areas brought under                                      major project works
per unit area and           improved and new         2) Semi-annual progress    2) Adequate incentives for
production obtained         irrigation                   reports                     farmers to participate in
3) Higher yields and        3) Higher crop production                                    O&M of the project
cropping intensities        per unit area            3) Special monitoring and   3) Adequate levels of
because of improved     4) Farmers receiving better      evaluation reports          water charges
irrigation and drainage     support services                                      4) No distortions in pricing
systems                 5) Farmers paying            4) Reports prepared by          of project produce
4) Agricultural production     increased water charges      Bank supervision         5) No problems with
on newly irrigated lands                                 missions                    transport and marketing
5) Increased revenues from                                                               of project produce
water charges                                                                     6) No input supply
problems



Page 23
Project Components/Sub-
components:
1) Rehabilitation of storage  1) Inputs (budget for each   1) The Government of  1) Completion of project
facilities and diversion  component)                Shaanxi through its       design work takes place
head works            2) Design and construction    implementing agency       as planned
2) Rehabilitation and        of remedial works for 9   and participating      2) Counterpart funding is
expansion of irrigation   dams and 2 diversion      prefectures and county    made available in
canal systems             works                     governments will          accordance with agreed
3) Rehabilitation and     3) Repair about 25 major     regularly monitor         financing plan
extension of drainage    structures, lining and     project implementation.  3) Key inputs such as
systems                   general repair of about   2) Semi-annual progress   fertilizer and
4) Rehabilitation of         600 km canals             reports will be prepared  construction materials
pumping plant         4) Repair and extension of    summarizing the status    will be made available
5) Completion of minor       about 200 km of drains    of project                when needed
canal systems, on-farm   5) Improvement or          implementation and    4) Extraordinary floods,
development works and    replacement of about 50   highlighting               droughts or earthquakes
land development         pumping stations           implementation issues.    do not occur
6) Irrigation management   6) Technical assistance,    3) The Bank will sent  5) Dam safety reviews will
reform and                training, study tours and  periodic (1-2 times a    be conducted in
strengthening of O&M     provision of goods         year) supervision         accordance with agreed
7) Introducing modem                                   missions to the project   plans
communication systems                               area to review status of  6) Resettlement will be
implementation and        carried out as stipulated
issues and exchange      in the agreed RAP
views on its findings
with Govemment of
Shaanxi



Page 24
Annex 2
Project Description
A:   General Description
1.    The project areas    The project covers nine Irrigation Districts that together serve a net
area of about 573,000 ha in the Guanzhong Plain in the Wei River Valley of Shaanxi Province. The
ID locations and main features are shown in the attached IBRD Map # 29961. The canals and
pumping stations are all older than 25 years and some date back to the 1930s. A number of dams
have been built in the past 30 years to provide seasonal storage. There is a need to repair and
improve the canals and carry out remedial works on the dams. The minor systems are also in need
of repair and upgrading over most of the command areas. Also, at present, farm land, totaling
about 50,000 ha of the command area, lack a water distribution system and depend solely on
rainfall. The aim of the project is to repair and improve the dams and main canal systems, upgrade
and complete the minor systems, and support irrigation management reform.
2.    Rainfall averages between 500 and 800 mm, depending on location in the project area.
Shaanxi's mean annual rainfall is 660 mm. Sixty five percent (65%) of the rain falls in the summer
between June and October. Therefore supplementary irrigation is required in particular during the
spring and late fall seasons. The main crops in the area are winter crops wheat (428,000 ha) and
rape seed (32,000 ha), planted in November and harvested in June, and maize (322,000 ha) planted
in June/July and harvested in October.  Other crops of importance are apples (57,000 ha) and
cotton (38,000 ha), which are summer crops. All of these crops can be grown without irrigation.
But, farmers can more than double their yields when their crops are irrigated and reduce losses
when severe droughts occur.
3.    The flows in the Wei River and its tributaries are in most years sufficient to meet the full
irrigation requirements of the project areas. However, irrigation supply to most farmers in the
project areas is generally inadequate in terms of quantity and timing of water because of
deficiencies in the physical works and weaknesses in the arrangements for water management in
the major and minor canal systems. The project aims to address these weaknesses and to maximize
the benefits through the repair and improvement of the facilities in the project area, which will be
carried out in parallel with the reform of water management as described below.
4.    Irrigation management reform The irrigation systems in the Guanzhong Plain typically
consist of main, branch, sub-branch, lateral and sub-lateral canals. The Shaanxi Province
Administration is moving to reform the arrangements for water management at and below the
lateral canal level. One of the main features of the reform is to issue long-term leases to qualified
individuals who would be responsible for operation and maintenance, and would be allowed to
recover their costs through water charges. In most cases, a contract is for a lateral which typically
serves 50 to 200ha, but larger units served by a sub-branch canals, which in some cases include
multiple laterals, have been leased. The  contracting system  will replace a system where
management is largely the responsibility of section heads at the responsible management station,
technicians, and village water managers who are directly employed by the IDs.



Page 25
5.    There are several weaknesses in the present system. Firstly, water charges are often
combined with levies of the local governments. In such cases, the price for a unit of water is set at a
level needed to meet tax targets, resulting in an apparent "cost of water" to the farmer being much
higher than it would be when paying a single water fee. Secondly, the funds collected are not used
to improve or repair the sub-laterals and laterals. Thirdly, the Irrigation Districts that supply the
water have difficulty in obtaining their portion of the collected funds; thus lowering their capacity
and incentive to deliver a reliable supply. Finally, the high charges and low reliability combine to
discourage the farmers from irrigating their land, which in turn reduces the revenue of the Irrigation
District, as well as overall district/village productivity.
6.    Leasing of laterals has  only recently (since late 1997) been initiated and, therefore,
experience with the new arrangement is limited. However, there is strong support for it among the
farmers who see several advantages. They will have one contact to deal with when they ask for
water (from the locally managed Management Station) and the contractor will have a financial
incentive to meet their needs and put pressure on the operators of the main ID system to deliver
required quantities to schedule.. Also, the price they pay for water will be clearly defined and
measured (through improved fixed measurement structures) and be free of other unrelated charges.
Prospects for the success of the contracting arrangement are enhanced by China's tradition of
strong leadership and community spirit at the village level. There will be no shortage of
experienced and responsible individuals to act as contractors. And with good leadership the farmers
will be responsive.
7.    Progress made with turning over management of lateral systems to independent operators is
so far satisfactory. Several management systems have been adopted. In cases where the existing
laterals and sub-laterals are in reasonably good condition, the managers are selected by the farmers.
In other cases, water user associations (WAU) are organized.   Where the  systems require
rehabilitation, contractors are selected on a competitive basis taking into account their willingness
to invest in improvements. A common feature is that the operators retain a portion of the water
sales revenue to pay for operating personnel and system improvement. Water charges are collected
directly by the operators, and passed through to the ID via the management stations. Under the old
system, the charges were collected by the local government usually in conjunction with general
revenues. Because of this, funds were not always reallocated back to the ID, and this resulted in
system repairs being neglected. Consequently, the farmers saw no link between the fees they paid
and the quality of service received and were thus wary of commitment. However, reports from the
field on the current changes suggest that the reforms are welcomed by the farmers.  The
improvement and expansion of the minor systems will be coordinated with the overall ID
management reform program, and it is expected that this will greatly enhance the benefits to the
water users in the project.
B:    Description of Project Components
Project component 1:     Improvement and expansion of  water source (Cost US$48.5
million)
8.    There are eleven dams in the project area. Nine of these are storage dams of varying size
designed to impound gully or river flows in the summer for use in the fall and spring. Two are
existing diversion weirs/dams that will be converted to storage dams. Four of the smaller gully



Page 26
dams provide limited storage, but their main purpose is to provide an embankment to carry main
canals across deep river valleys. Details of the dams are given in the PIP. Component 1 also
includes the construction of a 10 km tunnel, which is to transfer water from Fengjiashan ID to
Yangmoawan ID.
9.    Two existing diversion weirs -- Linjiacun weir on the Wei river, and Luohuiqu weir on the
Luo river -- will be raised to provide additional storage.  At Linjiacun, Baojixia District, the
existing masonry weir will be modified and raised to carry six 10 m by 6.7 m gates. This will allow
the retention level of the reservoir to be raised from El. 615 to El. 636 to provide live storage of 32
Mm3. On the Luo river the masonry weir will be modified to carry six 9 m by 14 m gates to provide
5.4 Mm3 of additional storage. An important function of these dams is to regulate releases from
upstream hydroelectric projects which are operated for daily peaking power. At each site the
existing intakes will be replaced and the sediment basin and the related gates downstream of the
dam will be renovated.
10.   An existing 61 m-high earth and rockfill dam on the Qu river supplies water to irrigation
systems in the Taoqupo District. The plan is to modify the spillway structure to add nine gates, so
as to raise the retention level by 4.5 m, increasing the overall storage by 10 Mm3 to 40 Mm3.
11.   The eleven existing weirs/dams form part of the irrigation systems of the nine IDs. These
were reviewed by a Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP) in July 1998. Remedial measures identified
as necessary by the Panel included:
e better instrumentation;
e replacement of gates on key outlet structures;
* excavation to make slopes more stable at critical locations;
* repair of slope protection;
12.   The DSRP recommended further investigations of the Taoqupo and Shibuchuan dams,
where cracks in the dam bodies are a cause for concern, so as to determine details for remedial
works. The Panel also reviewed proposals for the raising of two weirs, and commented on the
designs. The project has endorsed the recommendations of the Panel and the remedial works have
been included under this component. Investigations on the Taoqopu and Shibuchuan dams have
been initiated and provisions have been made for the implementation of the resulting remedial
works under the project.
Project component 2: Improvement of major distribution system (Cost US$69.8 million)
13.   Improvement of major canal system    Most main and branch canals are partially lined
with concrete panels or masonry. There are sections in all IDs where the lining has been damaged.
Measurements indicate that the losses in unlined canals are significantly higher than in the lined
ones. The combination of damaged lining and unlined sections also reduces the velocity of flow and
carrying capacity of the canals. Repair and completion of lining will raise the conveyance capacity
and reduce losses. The higher velocity of flow will reduce sediment deposition which is a problem
throughout the nine IDs. There are also places where flumes and aqueducts need to be strengthened
and actions taken to stabilize slopes along the canals (high embankments in cuttings, embankments
across gullies). Improvements comprise of upgrading and reinforcing 600 km of trunk (main) and
branch canals, including the lining of 515 km of (main) and branch canals, the repair and desilting



Page 27
of 200 km of drainage systems, and the repair or replacement of 25 major structures. Works
included are:
*  embanklnent strengthening - elevated section and steep slope stability,
groundwater and drainage control, seepage mitigation
*  canal lining - repair and new, for improved hydraulic performance, for better
section stability and maintenance, and to mitigate seepage losses
*  structures - major & minor (bifurcations, aqueducts, siphons, tunnels, escape
structures) - for improved hydraulic flow and distribution control, flow
measurement, general command area and infrastructure access, and drainage
underpasses
.  roads - access to management stations, key structures, canal maintenance,
monitoring and supervision
*  drainage canals improvement - to alleviate wet season inundation in low areas, to
prevent water logging, manage groundwater and salinity.
14.   Rehabilitation of pumping plant  Pumping plant is installed  to lift water to higher
terraces, as an integral part of the canal distribution systems. The major works under the project
include the rehabilitation (refitting of equipment) of about 50 pumping stations in 6 IDs. Most of
the pumping plant was built in the 1960's and early 1970's to low technical standards and has now
deteriorated to such an extent that major rehabilitation work is necessary. Many of the old pump-
houses are in need of replacement. Many of the original pump house designs did not allow for the
inclusion of electrical rooms or station cranes. A total of 47 pump houses will therefore be
renovated or replaced, and 28 internal station cranes will be provided, mostly for stations in the
Jiaokou ID. Works for 18 of the pump houses will be supported by the Bank Loan.
15.   The old pumps have deteriorated due to the combined effects of erosion by sediment laden
waters and cavitation. A total of 172 pumps will be replaced with improved modem versions. The
old motors have deteriorated due to aging and contamination by dust and moisture, resulting in
electrical failure of motor windings. A total of 172 motors will be replaced by new motors with
improved technical specifications. Some pumping station electrical equipment will also be replaced
and modernized, including transformers, switch-gear and control panels. High voltage power
supplies to some pumping stations (mainly Jiaokou) will be upgraded to stabilize the supply voltage
and improve reliability. A total of 26 km of new power line will be installed together with a major
new sub-station at Gushi in Jiaokou.
Project component 3:    Improvement and expansion of minor distribution system (Cost
US$39.2 million)
16.  Improvement and expansion of minor distribution system The project will improve
existing minor canals, drains and on-farm development works on about 180,000 ha of partially
irrigated land, and expand new systems to about 50,000 ha of land that currently has no irrigation
distribution network at the lateral level. The main works are:
earthwork and lining (repair and new) for a number of the existing lateral and
sub-lateral canals, to improve water distribution in about 180,000 ha;



Page 28
* land leveling in 50,000 ha of expanded area, to the typical squared type
distribution network, having a canal density of about 60 m per hectare;
* newly lined lateral and sub-lateral canals for the expanded areas;
* new structures for improved water measurement in both improved and expanded
areas;
. where applicable, improved integration of the surface water supplies with
groundwater.
Project component 4:     Improvement of O&M  (Cost US$5.2 million)
17.   O&M works and buildings  The project will improve access roads to key infrastructure
works and renovate management stations and research facilities as follows:
* improvement of main access roads to dams in Taoqupo, Yangmaowan and
Shibuchuan, for improved operation and maintenance;
* rehabilitation of deteriorated management stations in Baojixia, Jiaokou and
Shibuchuan;
* improvement of research facilities, and provision of modem technology, in
Baojixia, Jinghuiqu, Jiaokou and Luohuiqu.
18.   Communication system      The project will provide improved communications systems
for both fixed and mobile communication purposes in all nine districts. This will enhance system
management and planning procedures for improved water dispatch, control and delivery from
headworks to lateral head inlets. A new trunking radio system will be provided for each ID with
facilities for two radio frequencies, suitable for both voice and data transmission. These systems
will utilize microwave transmission between major centers. The nine separate systems will be
capable of future expansion to inter-link them with each other and with a central District Control
Center that may be established eventually in Xian.
19.   Irrigation management reform    Efficient irrigation management practices are key
aspects for future successful O&M of the improved systems. The management reforms are to be
accomplished at two levels: (i) at main system level (headworks to lateral head) managed by IDs;
and (ii) at minor or lateral canal system and below, through the turnover of O&M responsibilities
to groups of farmers (water user associations) or through contracts with single operators, joint
stock-holder or stock holders).
20.    At the main system level the reform efforts will address the need for: (i) organizational
changes within each Irrigation District; (ii) staffing changes and better defined job descriptions,
responsibilities, lines of command and performance incentive programs; (iii) enhancement of
financial management, accounting and administrative procedures; (iv) training of staff, and (v)
improvement of the O&M rules, regulations and procedures. Plans are already in place for a
reduction of personnel in each Irrigation District. To accommodate staff reductions, whilst
improving and/or expanding the command area, training and study tours will be provided to
improve skills. These reform efforts are designed to improve system management, and to result in
timely and adequate water delivery to fee paying customers. Technical assistance will be provided
to assist project management with the reform program.



Page 29
21.   At the lateral system level, several management reform models are being tried. In cases
where the existing laterals and sub-laterals are in reasonably good condition , the managers are
selected by the farners. In other cases, water user associations are often organized. Where the
systems require significant rehabilitation, contractors are selected on a competitive basis through
auction, or the formation of operator/user joint stock-holders or limited stock-holders securing
leases to manage a system. The selection procedure takes into account their capability and
willingness to invest in system improvements. A common feature is that the operators retain a
portion of the water sales revenue to pay for operating personnel and system improvement. Water
charges are collected directly by the operators. Under the old system, the charges were collected
by the local government usually together with other charges and/or taxes. As a result the system
repairs were neglected and the farmers saw no link between the fees they paid and the quality of
service. Reports from the field and a recent survey suggest that the reforms are welcomed by the
farmners. The stock-holder approach is currently favored. The improvement and expansion of minor
systems under the project will be coordinated with the lateral system tumover program.
Project component 5: Training, study tours and technical assistance (Cost US$1.8 million)
22.   Project management and other staff will participate in training and study tours under the
project, to improve: (i) the knowledge and understanding of resources and assets under their control;
(ii) management of technical, financial and administrative tasks; (iii) monitoring and evaluation of
project implementation performance; and (iv) physical and financial progress reporting. This will
allow them to examine and appreciate how irrigation systems in other parts of China and elsewhere
are managed. Long term benefits will be gained from the provision of technical assistance, through
the provision of direct advice to WCB and Irrigation District personnel, aimed at strengthening the
irrigation district management systems (technical, administrative and financial). Details of training
programs, study tours and technical assistance under the project are given in the PIP.
Project component 6:     Project management (Cost US$4.0 million)
23.   Project management arrangements are designed to ensure good coordination between
Government Bureaus and Irrigation Districts associated with project implementation. Emphasis will
be placed on the delivery of high quality design and efficient implementation of the project
components. Staff, with experience in managing the implementation of similar projects will be
appointed to the Provincial and Irrigation District Project Management Offices.
Project component 7:     Survey, design and supervision (Cost US$4.4 million)
24.   Survey, design and construction supervision will be 100% financed from local counterpart
funds. The project will retain the services of the Shaanxi Design and Research Institute (SDRI), to
assist with completing the designs of the major works and to supervise the IDs in finalizing the
designs for the canal improvement works. In turn the IDs will direct the City and County Water
Conservancy Bureaus, who will be responsible for finalizing designs for minor works, to standards
laid down by SDRI. A "Grade A" group will be selected to supervise the construction of the
Linjiacun dam under an ICB contract. For the NCB type works, "Grade B" groups will be retained
for construction supervision. B" groups will be retained for construction supervision.
Project component 8:     Land acquisition and resettlement (Cost US$ 4.8 million)



Page 30
25.   The raising of the Linjiacun and Luhuiquo diversion weirs and the installation of gates on
the spillway of the Ganhe dam requires the acquisition of land to accommodate enlarged storage
facilities. There are also people who will be affected by land acquisition required for the
construction of other infrastructure works, including canals. The total number of Project Affected
People (PAP) is 1,133. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) has been prepared in accordance with
OD 4.30 to facilitate the mitigation of the adverse impacts of the project on the PAPs. For the
Linjiacun Headwork, 100 ha (1,500 mu) of land will be acquired and 684 people will need be
relocated due to the inundation of the land for the reservoir. In addition, about 100 ha (1,435 mu) of
land will be expropriated for expanding irrigation systems, including the heightening of the Ganhe
dam and Luohuiqu headworks. Those actions do not require relocation of people affected.
26.   Independent monitoring of the implementation of the RAP will be carried out under the
project. The monitoring will cover the following aspects: (i) physical progress with resettlement
implementation; (ii) PAP livelihood restoration; (iii) PAP participation in the resettlement process;
(iv) grievances and effectiveness of the grievance procedures; and (v) proposed measures for
improvement. Further details on the resettlement requirements are presented in Annex 7. The RAP
is available in the project files and on request.



Page 31
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
1.    Project costs have been estimated for the entire project and for the nine IDs. The estimates are
based on quantities for civil works and construction materials prepared by Shaanxi using mid-1998
prices. The costs for improving and expanding the minor distribution system have been estimated based
on sample designs for representative areas in each ID. The total project cost is estimated at US$200
million, which includes a foreign exchange currency component of about 40%. Project cost summaries
are given in Tables A and B of this annex. Further cost details are in the PIP.
2.    The costs related to planning, survey, design, construction supervision and quality control have
been estimated at 4 percent of the base costs. An overhead fee of 0.3 percent of the base costs for the ID
management offices and 0.7 percent of the base costs for the provincial project management office is
added for project management. Physical contingencies of 10 percent are applied to all civil works for
the dams, the canal systems and for goods, except for the minor distribution system and for vehicles
and office equipment. They are equivalent to US$9.9 million. Price contingencies have been calculated
based on projected MUV-5 price escalation factors of 1.3 percent for 1999 and 2.5 percent for the years
thereafter. In addition a price escalation of 2.5 percent is added to take into account price increases for
the period between mid-1998 and the expected project start. The total price contingency is estimated at
about 11 percent of the project base costs, which is equivalent to about US$17.6 million. Interest during
construction (IDC) and other charges levied during the construction period on the disbursed and
undisbursed portions of the World Bank Loan, including the IBRD front-end fee of US$0.8 million or
1% of the Loan amount, will accumulate to about US$22.2 million over the five-year implementation
period. These costs are included in the total project cost estimate.



Page 32
Annex 3: Table A
Project Cost Summary
Component                         Total Cost      % of Total
(US$ million)
1. Improvement and expansion of water source               48.5           24.3
2. Improvement of major distribution system
a) Pumpingfacilities                                     16.1            8.0
b) Canal and drainage system                             53.8            26.9
Sub-total Improvement of major distribution system       69.8            34.9
3. Improvement and expansion of minor distribution system  39.2            19.6
4. Improvement of O&M                                       5.2            2.6
5. Training, study tours & technical assistance             1.8            0.9
6. Project management                                       4.0            2.0
7. Survey, design & supervision                             4.4            2.2
8. Land acquisition & resettlement                          4.8            2.4
9. Front-end fee (1% of IEBRD Loan)                         0.8            0.4
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                                      178.6           89.3
Interest during construction (IDC)                       21.4            10.7
TOTAL COST                                                 200.0          100.0
Included:
Physical contingencies                                    9.9            5.9
Price contingencies                                       17.6           11.0



Page 33
Annex 3, Table B: Project Cost Estimates
(in US$ million equivalent)
NewC                 '~   s  f
Repair of storage and diversion facilities    7~.00   a.6  0.0    .0   0.7s   l.s 01        .B               8
Component                                      u       N       a             V)      Pk     N       U      .     A.      t4
I. Improvement and Expansion of Water Source
New storage facilities                      17.37    -       -       -      -      -      4.63    8.16    -    -      30.2   15%
Repair of storage and diversion facilities    7.00   2.68    0.60   3.90   0.75    1.95    0.14    -    1.33   -      18.3    9%
Sub-total Improvm. & Expans. of W. Source     24.37   2.68    0.60   3.90   0.75    1.95   4.77   8.16   1.33   -        48.5   24%
2. Improvement of Major Distribution System
a) Pumping Facilities
Rehabilitation of pump houses                0.56   2.55     -      0.03    -     0.28    0.50    -      -     -       3.9   2.0%
Pumps, motors and other equipment            2.50   4.65     -      0.16    -     0.24   0.26    -      0.04   -       7.9   3.9%
Equipment Installation                       1.31   2.62     -      0.03          0.07   0.25    -      0.00   -       4.3    2%
Sub-total                            4.37   9.82     -      0.22    -      0.58   1.0)    -      0.05   -     16.1   8.0%
b) Canal and Drainage System
Canal improvement                           14.27   4.56    9.67   4.92   1.44   2.00    3.17   4.62   2.61   -       47.3  23.6%
Drain repair and reshaping                   0.36   0.88    1.53    -       -      -       -     1.03    -     -       3.8   1.9%
Repair & replacement of major structures    1.56   0.95      -       -      -     0.22    -       -      -     -       2.7   1.4%
Sub-total                           16.19   6.39   11.19   4.92   1.44   Z22    3.17   5.65   2.61   -        53.8  26.9%
Sub-total Improvement of Major Distrib. System    20.56  16.21   11.19   5.14   1.44    2.80   4.19   5.65   2.66   -    69.8  34.9%
3. Improvement and Expansion of Minor Distribution System
Improvement areas                            6.13   2.20    2.47   0.80   0.66    1.96   0.52    1.71   0.97   -      17.4   8.7%
Expansion areas                              0.39   0.70    1.14   0.82   1.58   4.41    0.82   0.93   0.95   -       11.7   5.9%
Land leveling                                0.48   0.80    1.05   0.68   1.14   2.77   0.70   0.92   0.86   -         9.4   4.7%
Water saving distribution technology             -       -       -      -          -       -      -      -    0.62     0.6   0.3%
Sub-total Improv.&Exp. of Minor Distr. Syst.   7.00   3.70    4.66   2.30   3.38    9.15   2.03   3.56   2.79  0.62    39.2  19.6%
4. Improvement of O&M
Access roads improvement                      -      -       -      0.32    -      -      0.05    -     0.17   -       0.5   0.3%
Renovation O&M buildings                     0.38   0.45    0.52    -       -      -       -      -     0.15   -       1.5  0.8%
Watermanagementequipment                     0.12   0.17     -       -      -      -       -      -      -     -       0.3   0.1%
Telecommunication                            0.79   0.29    0.64   0.17   0.16    0.32   0.08   0.21   0.23   -        2.9   1.4%
Sub-total Improvement of O&M                   1.30   0.91    1.16   0.49   0.16   0.32    0.13   0.21   0.55   -         5.2   2.6%
5. Training, Study Tours & Technical Assist.
Irrigation districts/Provincial PMO           -      -       -       -      -      -       -      -      -    1.81     1.8   0.9%
6. Project Management
Project offices                              0.28   0.13    0.10   0.03   0.02   0.06   0.05   0.09   0.03  0.61       1.4   0.7%
Vehicles                                     0.16   0.10    0.10   0.06   0.06   0.06   0.06   0.10   0.06  0.17       0.9   0.5%
Computer, and other office equipment         0.01   0.01    0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01    0.01   0.01  0.08      0.2   0.1%
Project managementfee
Districtprojectnmanagement(0.3% of L-6)     0.15   0.07    0.05   0.03   0.02   0.04   0.03    0.05   0.02   -         0.5   0.2%
Provincial PMO cost (0.7% of .-5)            -       -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -    0.99     1.0   0.5%
Sub-total Project Management                   0.59   0.31    0.26   0.13   0.11    0.17    0.15    0.24   0.12  1.86    4.0   2.0%
7. Survey/Design/Superv. (4%  of 1,2,4)           1.68   0.66    0.45   0.32   0.11    0.23   0.31    0.47   0.17   -       4.4   2.2%
8. Land Acquisition & Resettlement                4.22    -        -      -      -      -       -      0.62    -     -      4.8   2.4%
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                            59.73   24.48   18.32  12.28   5.96  14.62   11.59   18.92   7.61  4.28   177.8  88.9%
Interest During Construction and Fees          8.14   3.23    2.35    1.56   0.61    1.48    1.46   2.48   0.89   -      22.2  11.1%
|TOTAL COST                                       67.87  27.70   20.67  13.84   6.57   16.10  13.04  21.41   8.51  4.28  200.0  100%
Included:
Physical Contingencies                         3.72    1.60    1.01   0.77   0.18   0.39   0.74    1.13   0.33   -        9.9  5.9%
Price Contingencies                            5.92   2.43    1.82   1.22   0.59    1.45    1.15   1.88   0.72  0.40    17.6 11.0%
Percent ofTOTAL COST                             33.9%   13.9%   10.3%   6.9%   3.3%   8.1%   6.5%   10.7%   4.3%  2.1%   100%



Page 34
Annex 4
Economic and Financial Analysis
A.   Background
1.    The project will improve and expand irrigation systems of nine Irrigation Districts in the
Guanzhong plain of Shaanxi Province. Irrigation of the fertile loess soils is very beneficial. It
generally doubles the yields of most agricultural crops and secures a stable and reliable income in a
farming environment, which is threatened by frequent and severe droughts. The project will
substantially increase the incomes of about 5.5 million rural people, who are some of the poorest in
China.
2.    The project will support irrigation management reforms designed to introduce private sector
management principles in distribution and sale of irrigation water. This process is expected to lead to
significant efficiency gains in the use of surface water. It will make surface water irrigation more
attractive and thus reduce pressure on the use of ground water. The reforms will be carried out with
or without the project.
3.    The reforms are already launched in all nine Irrigation Districts, however, the success of the
reform process is linked to the ability to provide adequate quantities of water to the operators of
lateral systems in a timely manner.  The project will therefore improve obsolete physical
infrastructure. The investments in headworks and major distribution system facilities will increase
the amount of water available for irrigation, by increasing storage capacity, reducing conveyance
losses and increasing canal capacities. This together with investments in minor distribution systems
and on-farm development will provide reliable irrigation to farmers. About 330,000 ha will receive
more reliable irrigation supplies and about 50,000 ha of currently rainfed land will be irrigated for
the first time.
4.    The combination of institutional reform and improvement of physical infrastructure will give
the nine Irrigation Districts long-term financial sustainability. Each Irrigation District will generate
enough income in the future not only to cover fully the operational costs but also to maintain and
reinvest in the systems in such a way that their performance will not deteriorate.
B.    Economic Analysis
5.    The benefits of the project are measured in incremental net value of production at full
development. The analysis is done over 20 years using an annual discount rate of 12 percent.
6.    Economic prices  World market reference prices are used for major traded products such as
fertilizers, wheat, maize and cotton. For all other products, financial prices as observed in the project
areas have been used. The financial and economic prices are shown in Table 1. The calculation of
world market prices is shown in Table 2. For farm and unskilled labor a wage rate of RMB 10 per
day is used which reflects the economic opportunity cost of labor in the area.
7.    Operations cost    The main operations cost is the energy cost of pumping. Other cost are
the annual cost of preventive and routine maintenance. The resulting costs, as shown in Table 1, vary



Page 35
significantly among the Irrigation Districts and range from 9 to 23 Fen per m3 in the  'without
project' and 6 to 21 Fen per m3 in the 'with project' situation.
8.7   Crop models and economic net value of production (NVP) The benefits of irrigation are
shown in crop models, presenting the inputs and outputs for the major agricultural crops in physical
and value terms under: (i) rainfed; (ii) partly irrigated; and (iii) fully irrigated conditions (Table 3).
Based on these crop models, the economic Net Value of Production (NVP) per hectare has been
estimated for the various irrigation conditions. A summary is provided in Table 4.
9.    Cropping pattern and total incremental NVP  The current, future 'without project', and
future 'with project' cropping situation is shown in the cropping pattern table (Table 5). It is
assumed that about 410,000 ha are currently receiving irrigation water at either insufficient quantities
and/or at sub-optimal times. This area is expected to decrease to about 330,000 ha in the 'without
project' situation due to the management reform programns in the near future. As a result the fully
irrigated area in the "without project" situation increases to about 200,000 ha. The project will
provide these remaining 330,000 ha with full and timely irrigation. In addition, about 50,000 ha of
currently rainfed areas will receive irrigation for the first time as a result of the project. The
calculation of the incremental NVP is shown in Table 5.
10.   A breakdown of the project benefits by commodity shows that the major products - wheat
and maize - contribute 21 and 34 percent respectively to the benefits of the investment. Vegetables
and apples will contribute 16 percent each while cotton and rapeseed are of lesser importance and
contribute 5 and 8 percent respectively to the project benefits. In terms of areas, about two thirds of
the project benefits are generated from the improvement of currently irrigated areas, with the
remaining one third coming from areas to be irrigated for the first time.
11.   Results      The ERR of the project is estimated at 26 percent. The ERRs of the individual
irrigation systems of the nine IDs range from 15 to 38 percent (detailed cash flows and sensitivity
parameters are shown in Table 6). Main results are:
Irrigation District     Net Present Value     Economic Rate of
Return
RMB million               %
OCC 12%
Baojixia                           289                   24
Jinghuiqu                          172                   34
Jiaokou                            74                    20
Taoqupo                            32                    19
Shitouhe                           73                    38
Fengjiashan                        178                   37
Yangmaowan                         14                    15
Luohuiqu                           118                   27
Shibaochuan                         17                   18
Total Project         967                    26
12.   High returns for Shitouhe and Fengjiashan are realized because they have sufficient water and
there is good potential to increase and improve the irrigated area. In Yangmaowan on the other hand,



Page 36
the supply of water is limited and a relatively large investmnent in a tunnel is needed to transfer water
from Fengjiashan. The ERR of 15 percent reflects these high investment costs in comparison to an
incremental irrigation area of 3,300 ha and improved irrigation of 9,900 ha only.
13.   Sensitivity analysis The economic return of the project investment has been tested for cost
overruns and lower than expected benefits. For all IDs the ERRs remain above 12 percent even under a
combination of adverse events.
14.   Assumptions about future 'without project' situation   The economic analysis described
above assumes that the performance of the irrigation systems in the 'without project' case would
improve somewhat due to the ongoing management reform programs. However, it could be argued that
without the project the irrigation infrastructure will further deteriorate and a larger area would suffer
from unreliable water supply, as system failures become more frequent. It was found that such
assumption will only moderately change the ERR of the project. For example, if the project would
prevent a decline in irrigation service to about 20% of the land (assumed to be well irrigated in the
'future without project' case), then the ERR of the project would increase from 26% to 29% (see Table
6).
15.   Non-quantified economic benefits        Other important benefits of the project, which have
not been quantified, arise from investments in dam rehabilitation and dam safety monitoring, which
will reduce the risk of dam failure. Dam failures might cause costly damages in downstream areas and
require significant replacement. The project will also improve surface water use efficiency resulting in
less reliance on groundwater. This will provide relief to areas where the current rate of groundwater
extraction appears to exceed recharge. The project will therefore contribute to the preservation of a
valuable natural resource: groundwater, the main source for cities, towns and industries.
C.    Financial Analysis
16.   Operation and Maintenance (O&M) and Water Charges           The current water charges
(excluding charges for electricity costs) in the nine IDs range from 7.5 Fen/m3 in Fengjiashan to 23.0
Fen/m3 in Shibuchuan. In none of the IDs the charges are sufficient to cover the current expenditures of
the IDs. The shortfall is generally covered by subsidies from the government budget. The main reasons
for the difficult financial situation of the IDs are: (i) low water sales; (ii) inefficient collection of water
fees; and (iii) high overhead costs for management. The system of management is anchored to the
traditional Chinese standards of government, which allows a large number of staff and associated
financial burdens of pension and other social security system payments, and an array of expenditures
and fees with no direct linkage to O&M activities for the irrigation systems.
17.   The government's intention to cease subsidies for O&M of irrigation systems will likely require
a raise of the current level of water charges. However, in the long-run the on-going management
reforms at the lateral and ID levels, including the reduction of ID staff, together with the planned
physical improvements are expected to result in significant efficiency gains in all nine irrigation
districts. More water will be sold to farners at lower operational costs per unit of water. Therefore, the
above efficiency gains combined with reasonable water price levels, will set the stage for the generation
of sufficient revenues to cover:
' These loan and interest repayments do not include repayment for the minor distribution system investments, which is
expected to be recovered directly from benefiting farmers.



Page 37
*  all operational costs, such as salaries, management fees, electricity for pumping and office
operations;
*  the costs for regular maintenance, including repair and overhaul of equipment and civil
works to keep the irrigation infrastructure in good operational condition; and
*  interest and loan repayment costs for the investments made by the project.
Introducing this approach under GIIP is expected to gradually generate enough revenues to cover the
above costs and provide long-term financial stability and independence to the IDs.
18.   Future O&M costs, including costs for periodic overhaul and repair have been projected for all
nine IDs. Different levels of water sales by the IDs of 40, 80, and 100 percent of the field demand at full
development have been used for a computation of the water cost per m3 (Table 9). The calculation
shows that the O&M cost per m3 of water supplied to the head of a lateral varies significantly between
IDs. The variation depends mainly on the type of irrigation system and investment costs. At a supply
level of 80 percent of the field demand the cost would range from 6.3 Fen per m3 in Shitouhe to 23.8
Fen per m3 in Jiaokou. These costs include loan repayments and interest charges ranging from 1.1 Fen
in Fengjiashan to 10.9 Fen per m3 in Taoqupo (See Table 9).
19.   In addition to the water charges levied by the IDs the "operators" of the lateral systems will
charge farmers a small fee. The resulting total irrigation water charge in each ID could be set at levels,
which are reasonable for farmers to pay.
Projected water charges
1p---  - &M c6sl WbaUtd  Loan *rest    Thtal          TOtal
Costs in Fen/m3 at 80% sales level     at 40% sales level
Baojixia            4.86         3.8          4.5        13.2         23.9
Jinghuiqu           3.40         2.3          4.1         9.8          18.0
Jiaokou             15.89        5.1          2.8        23.8         35.0
Taoqupo             2.72         7.6         10.9        21.3         42.2
Shitouhe            2.18         2.2          1.9         6.3         12.4
Fengiashan          9.02         3.5          1.1        13.7         20.4
Yangmaowan          5.76         4.2          9.4        19.3         34.9
Luohuiqu            3.64         2.8          4.7        11.1         20.2
Shibuchuan          3.41         4.5          6.1        14.0         27.8
20.   Farm models The likely financial impact of the project on farm household incomes has
been analyzed for a number of typical farm models (Table 10). The models include:
*  medium size farm, cropping 1 ha with currently no access to irrigation, that will
receive irrigation on 70% of the cropped land (farm model A);
*  medium size farm with access to unreliable irrigation, that will benefit from a reliable
irrigation water supply in the future (farm model B);
*  small and poor farm with 0.6 ha crop land, that will receive irrigation on 0.1 ha of its
land (farn model C);



Page 38
*  above average size farm with 1.2 ha crop land, of which 1 ha is already partially
irrigated; this farrn is engaged in apple and vegetable production with only small
areas for grain production; the project will provide full irrigation to all farm land
(farm model D).
21.   Details about cropping pattern and financial results are shown in Table 10; the major
indicators are:
Farm model        Net income from       Return to labor    Change in    Loan and
cropping without                       family income   interest
family labor                                       repayment
(Yuan)             (Yuan/day)      (Yuan/year)  (Yuan/year)
Without      with     Without  With
A               1,221      3,183      18.5   26.0        +1,962          -144
B               4,044      5,896      31.4   32.2        +1,851           -46
C                 764      2,255      18.6   36.4        +1,491           -21
D              12,732     16,852      40.5   48.2        +4,121           -88
22.   All farms will benefit significantly from the project. In absolute terms farm incomes will
increase between RMB 1,491 (farm model C) and RMB 4,121 (farm model D). However, while the
absolute increase will be highest for the apple-producing farmn model C, the relative increase in
income will be highest for the poorest farms, which are projected to triple. Returns to labor will also
increase significantly, again with the highest relative increases for the poorest farms (farm model C).
23.   Loan costs are based on the assumption that farmers will finance about 35%  of the
investment required for improvement and expansion of minor distribution systems from the World
Bank loan/credit. The remaining costs will come from their own contribution mostly by providing
their labor. On-lending interest rates of 8% per annum and repayment over 6 years have been
assumed. The annual loan and interest repayment costs for individual farms will be small (see table
above). In all cases the repayment cost will be less than 10% of the incremental annual income.



Page 39
Annex 4, Table 1: Agricultural Input and Output Prices
(RMB in constant 1998 prices)
Unit       Financial     Economic
Wheat                     kg           1.30            1.08
Maize                     kg            1.10           0.94
Cotton lint               kg          11.00            9.24
Cotton seed               kg           1.00            0.80
Rape Seed                 kg           2.30            1.96
Vegetables                kg           0.60            0.60
Apples                    kg           0.80            0.80
Wheat straw               kg           0.10            0.10
Maize stover              kg           0.03            0.03
Wheat seed                kg           3.00            3.00
Maize seed                kg           6.00            6.00
Seed Cotton               kg           2.90            2.90
Rape Seed seed            kg          10.00           10.00
Vegetable seed            kg          20.00           20.00
Nitrogen                  kg           2.00            2.09
Phosphate                 kg           1.80            1.86
Potash                    kg           3.20            3.20
Manure                    ton         20.00           20.00
Pesticide                 kg          20.00           20.00
Labor                     day         15.00           10.00
Economic Water Costs, RMB/m3 (for calculation see Table 9.)
without project  with
project
Baojixia                  m3          0.136           0.087
Jinghuiqu                 m3          0.089           0.057
Jiaokou                   m3          0.229           0.210
Taoqupo                   m3          0.203           0.103
Shitouhe                  m3          0.086           0.044
Fengjiashan               m3          0.147           0.125
Yangmaowan                m3          0.143           0.099
Luohuiqu                  m3          0.096           0.064
Shibaochuan               m3          0.155           0.079



Page 40
Annex 4, Table 2: Estimated Import/Export Parity Prices (for the year 2005 expressed in 1998 prices)
Unit   Export Price Parities          Import Price Parities
Cotton    Cotton    Wheat  Maize   Cotton    Urea    TSP
Oil     Cake                       Lint g/
(W.Europe) (S.Korea)  (US. Atl.  (U.S.  (U.S. Gulf)  (Russia) (N.Africa)
port)    Gulf)
World Market Reference Price:
World market prices a/             US$/ton       708       155      125     112      1,557     151    132
Quality adjustment                    %          0%        0%       0%      0%       30%       0%      0%
Ocean freight                      US$/ton       -25       -20      +25     +20       +45      +48    +42
CIF/FOB price                      US$/ton      683        135      150     132      1,135     199    174
Internal Transport, Trade and Processing Costs:
CIF/FOB price (Yuan) b/            Yuan/ton    5,669     1,121    1,242   1,093      9,419    1,653   1,445
Port charges c/                    Yuan/ton      -35       -35      +35     +35       +72      +40    +40
Trade margins (10% of CIF/FOB      Yuan/ton     -567      -112                               +165   +145
prices)
Wholesaler to port d/              Yuan/ton     -180      -180
Producer to wholesaler             Yuan/ton      -36       -36
Port to wholesaler                 Yuan/ton                                                  +180   +180
Wholesaler to retailer el          Yuan/ton                                                    +36    +36
Retailer to major consumption place    Yuan/ton                    -180    -180      -234
Conversion rate                       %         17%       53%     100%    100%       100%    100%   100%
Farm to/from retailer (12km) f/    Yuan/ton      -12       -12      -12     -12       -12      +12    +12
Processing costs                   Yuan/ton      -21       -49
Economic farm gate price           Yuan/ton      792       340    1,085     936      9,245    2,086   1,858
Financial farmgate price           Yuan/ton      800       450    1,300   1,100    11,000   2,000   1,800
Conversion factor                     %         99%       76%      83%     85%       84%    104%   103%
Notes:
a/ Basic assumption of price projections are taken from World Bank Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries, A
World Bank Quarterly.
Price for wheat refers to U.S. Soft Red Winter No. 2 F.o.b., 1997/98 price, using the relative price increases as projected by the
World Bank for Canadian Western Red Spring.
Price for cotton lint refers to A Index quality Liverpool, Oct. 1998 quotation, using the same relative price increases as
projected by the World Bank.
Prices for Cotton Oil and Cake are average prices of 1998 published by FAO.
b/ Exchange rate of 8.3 Yuan per US$.
c/ Local price used.
d/ Dalian-Xian approximately 1200km; 0.165 Yuan per kIn and ton local price; 30% additional adjustment for bulky products.
e/ 0.3 Yuan per ton per km local price; 30% adjustment for bulky products.
f/ 1.0 Yuan per ton per km local price; 30% adjusted for bulky products.
g/ One ton of seed cotton equals 380kg lint, 55kg oil, 400kg cake and 165kg waste; a weighted conversion factor for seed of 0.8
is used.



Page 41
Annex 4, Table 3: Crop Budgets per hectare
Wheat
Unit Price          Quantity             Financial Values (Yuan)    Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Irrig. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Irrig. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Inrig.
Output
Wheat              kg       1.3   1.1   3,000    4,500     5,000   3,900    5,850     6,500   3,255    4,882      5,425
Wheat Straw        kg      0.1   0.1   2,400    3,600      4,000     240      360       400     240      360       400
Total Output                              5,400    8,100     9,000   4,140    6,210      6,900   3,495    5,242     5,825
Operating
Inputs
Seed             kg      3.0   3.0    150        135      135     450       405       405     450      405       405
Urea             kg      2.0   2.1    450        675      750      900    1,350     1,500     939    1,408      1,565
Phosphate        kg      1.8   1.9    360        540      600      648      972     1,080     669    1,003      1,115
Manure          ton     20.0  20.0      0.6      0.9       1.0      12       18        20      12       18        20
Pesticide        kg     20.0  20.0      12        15       10    240        300       200     240      300       200
Machinery       Yuan                                              450       600       600     450      600       600
Animal labor    Yuan                                                60        -         -      60         -        -
Tax            Yuan                                                156      234       260
Other          Yuan                                                110      105        85     110      105        85
Irrigation /a
Partial irrigation   m3  0.28  0.14            1,200                 -      336         -       -      163         -
Full irrigation  m3     0.28  0.09                       1,800       -        -       504       -         -      156
Labor
Family labor    WDs    15.0  10.0       60        80       95      900    1,200     1,425     600      800       950
Total Input                                                          3,926    5,520      6,079   3,530    4,803     5,095
Net Value of Production lb                                             214      690       821      -35     440       729
Maize
Unit Price          Quantity             Financial Values (Yuan)    Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Inrig. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Inig. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Irrig.
Output
Maize              kg       1.1   0.9   3,000    4,300     5,800   3,300    4,730      6,380   2,808    4,024     5,428
Maize Stover       kg      0.03  0.03   3,600    5,160     6,960     108      155       209     108       155      209
Total Output                              6,600    9,460    12,760   3,408    4,885      6,589   2,916    4,179     5,637
Operating
Inputs
Seed             kg      6.0   6.0      40       40        40      240      240       240     240      240       240
Urea             kg      2.0   2.1    510        731      986   1,020    1,462       1,972   1,064    1,525    2,057
Phosphate        kg      1.8   1.9    150        215      290      270      387       522     279      399       539
Potash           kg      3.2   3.2      30       43        58       96      138       186      96      138       186
Manure          ton     20.0  20.0      0.6      0.9       1.2      12       17        23      12       17        23
Pesticide        kg     20.0  20.0       3        4         5       60       80       100      60       80       100
Machinery       Yuan                                               200      225       250     200      225       250
Tax             Yuan                                               132      189       255
Other           Yuan                                               150      150       150     150      150       150
Irrigation la
Partial irrigation   m3  0.28  0.14            1,200                 -      336         -       -      163         -
Full irrigation  m3     0.28  0.09                       2,400       -        -       672       -        -       208
Labor
Family labor    WDs    15.0  10.0       70        80       90   1,050    1,200      1,350     700      800       900
Total Input                                                          3,230    4,424      5,720   2,801    3,737     4,653
Net Value of Production /b                                             178      461       869     115      442       984
to be continued



Page 42
Annex 4, Table 3: Crop Budgets per hectare (continued)
Cotton
Unit Price          Quantity             Financial Values (Yuan)    Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ. Rainfed Partly lrr. Fully Irrig. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Irrig. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Irrig.
Output
Cotton lint        kg      11.0   9.2    300       550       750   3,300    6,050      8,250   2,773    5,085     6,934
Seed cotton        kg       1.0   0.8    600    1,100      1,500     600    1,100      1,500    480       880     1,200
Total Output                                900    1,650     2,250   3,900    7,150      9,750   3,253    5,965     8,134
Operating
Inputs
Seed             kg      2.9   2.9      75       75        75     218       218       218     218      218       218
Urea             kg      2.0   2.1    360       660       900      720    1,320     1,800     751    1,377      1,878
Phosphate        kg      1.8   1.9    150        275      375      270      495       675     279      511       697
Potash           kg      3.2   3.2        -        -         -       -        -         -       -         -        -
Manure          ton     20.0  20.0      0.6      1.1       1.5     12        22        30      12       22        30
Pesticide        kg     20.0  20.0      30        60       90      600    1,200     1,800     600    1,200      1,800
Machinery       Yuan                                               400      425       450     400      425       450
Tax             Yuan                                               132      242       330
Other           Yuan                                                        180       240       -      180       240
Irrigation /a
Partial irrigation    m3  0.28  0.14           1,500                 -      420         -       -      204         -
Full irrigation  m3     0.28  0.09                       2,100       -        -       588       -         -      182
Labor
Family labor    WDs    15.0  10.0       90       105      120   1,350    1,575       1,800    900    1,050      1,200
Total Input                                                          3,702    6,097      7,931   3,159    5,186     6,694
Net Value of Production /b                                             199    1,054      1,820     94       778     1,440
Rape Seed
Unit Price          Quantity             Financial Values (Yuan)    Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Irrig. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Irrig. Rainfed Partly Irr. Fully Irrig.
Output
Rape Seed          kg       2.3   2.0   1,500    2,000     2,800   3,450    4,600      6,440   2,933    3,910     5,474
Total Output                              1,500    2,000     2,800   3,450    4,600      6,440   2,933    3,910     5,474
Operating
Inputs
Seed             kg     10.0  10.0       8        7         7       80       70        70      80       70        70
Urea             kg      2.0   2.1    225        300      420      450      600       840     469      626       876
Phosphate        kg      1.8   1.9    150        200      280      270      360       504     279      372       520
Potash           kg      3.2   3.2    150         20       28      480       64        90     480       64        90
Manure          ton     20.0  20.0      0.3      0.4       0.6       6        8        11       6        8        11
Pesticide        kg     20.0  20.0      15        15       15    300        300       300     300      300       300
Machinery       Yuan                                               400      425       450     400      425       450
Animal labor    Yuan                                               300      240       210     300      240       210
Tax             Yuan                                               138      184       258
Other           Yuan                                               180      150       120     180       150      120
Irrigation /a
Partial irrigation   m3  0.28  0.14            1,200                 -      336         -       -       163         -
Full irrigation  ml     0.28  0.09                       1,800       -        -       504       -         -      156
Labor
Family labor    WDs    15.0  10.0       40        50       60      600      750       900     400      500       600
Total Input                                                          3,204    3,487      4,256   2,894    2,918     3,403
Net Value of Production/b                                              246    1,113      2,184     38       992     2,071
to be continued



Page 43
Annex 4, Table 3: Crop Budgets per hectare (continued)
________________________________________       V egetables
Unit Price           Quantity              Financial Values (Yuan)      Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit   Fin.  Econ. Rainfed  Partly Irr. Fully Irrig. Rainfed  Partly Irr.  Fully Irrig.  Rainfed  Partly Irr. Fully Irrig.
Output
Vegetables          kg       0.6   0.6   18,000   55,000    64,000  10,800    33,000       38,400    10,800    33,000    38,400
Total Output                                18,000   55,000    64,000  10,800    33,000      38,400    10,800    33,000    38,400
Operating
Inputs
Seed              kg      20.0  20.0        8        7         7     160       140         140       160      140       140
Urea             kg        2.0   2.1      450    1,375     1,600    900      2,750       3,200       939     2,868    3,338
Phosphate        kg        1.8   1.9      360    1,100     1,280    648       1,980      2,304       669     2,044    2,378
Potash           kg        3.2   3.2      180      550       640     576      1,760      2,048       576     1,760    2,048
Manure           ton      20.0  20.0        4       11        13      72       220         256        72      220       256
Pesticide        kg       20.0  20.0       15       15        15    300        300         300       300      300       300
Machinery       Yuan                                                 400       600         675       400      600       675
Tax             Yuan                                                 432      1,320      1,536
Other           Yuan                                                 210       375         455       210      375       455
Irrigation /a
Partial irrigation    m3  0.28  0.14              4,000                -      1,120          -         -      544         -
Full irrigation  ml       0.28  0.09                       5,400       -         -        1,512        -         -      468
Labor
Family labor    WDs       15.0  10.0      300      450       600   4,500     6,750       9,000     3,000    4,500     6,000
Total Input                                                             8,198    17,315      21,426     6,326    13,351    16,058
Net Value of Production /b                                              2,602    15,685      16,974    4,474    19,649    22,342
Apple
Unit Price           Quantity              Financial Values (Yuan)       Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit   Fin.  Econ. Rainfed  Partly Irr. Fully Irrig. Rainfed  Partly Irr.  Fully Irrig.  Rainfed  Partly Irr. Fully Irrig.
Output
Apple               kg       0.8   0.8   22,000   27,000    30,000  17,600    21,600       24,000    17,600    21,600    24,000
Total Output                                22,000   27,000    30,000  17,600    21,600      24,000    17,600    21,600    24,000
Operating
Inputs
Urea             kg        2.0   2.1    1,320    1,620     1,800   2,640     3,240       3,600     2,754     3,380    3,755
Phosphate        kg        1.8   1.9      880    1,080     1,200   1,584      1,944      2,160     1,635    2,006     2,229
Potash            kg       3.2   3.2      220      270       300     704       864         960       704      864       960
Manure           ton      20.0  20.0      4.4       5.4      6.0      88       108         120        88      108       120
Pesticide        kg       20.0  20.0       45       60        75     900      1,200       1,500      900     1,200     1,500
Tax             Yuan                                                 704       864         960
Other           Yuan                                                 750      1,000       1,000      750     1,000     1,000
Irrigation la
Partial irrigation    m3  0.28  0.14              1,500                -       420           -         -      204         -
Full irrigation  m3       0.28  0.09                       2,500       -         -         700         -        -       217
Labor
Family labor    WDs       15.0  10.0      300      350       400   4,500      5,250       6,000    3,000     3,500    4,000
Total Input                                                            11,870    14,890      17,000     9,831    12,262    13,781
Net Value of Production /b                                              5,730     6,710       7,000    7,769     9,338    10,219
a] Cost for irrigation water refer to Baojixia irrigation area and differ in other irrigation districts (see Table 1, and Table 9.)
b/ Negative values indicate that the production does not fully pay for the used labor, which is mostly family labor.



Page 44
Annex 4, Table 4: Crop Yields and Economic Net Value of Production per hectare (NVP)
Z~~~~~~~~~~
o      c        3                                                  N   
Yield /a                  Econormic Net Value of Production per hectare b/
(kg/ha)                                    (RMB/ha)
Wheat
rainfed         3,000      -35      -35    -35     -35    -35       -35      -35       -35      -35
partly irrig.   4,500      440     496    328    360    500        426       431       487      416
fully irIng.    5,000      729     783    508    699    806        660       707       770      743
Maize
rainfed         3,000      115      115    115     115    115       115      115       115      115
partly irrig.   4,300      442     498    330    362    502        428       433       489      418
fully irrig.    5,800      984    1,056    689    944   1,086      891       954     1,038    1,003
Cotton
rainfed          300        94      94      94      94      94       94       94        94       94
partly irrig.    550       778     849    639    678    854        761       767       838      749
0ly irrig.       750    1,440    1,502   1,181   1,405   1,529    1,358    1,413     1,487    1,456
Rape Seed
rainfed         1,500       38      38      38      38      38       38       38        38       38
partly irrig.   2,000      992    1,049    881    912  1,053       979       984     1,040      969
fully irrig.    2,800    2,071   2,124   1,849   2,041  2,147   2,001    2,048       2,111    2,085
Veg,etables
rainfed        18,000    4,474   4,474  4,474   4,474  4,474   4,474    4,474        4,474    4,474
partly irrig.    55,000   19,649   19,838 19,277  19,382 19,851  19,604   19,619    19,808   19,571
fully irrig.  64,000   22,342  22,502 21,677  22,252 22,571  22,133   22,274    22,464  22,384
Apples
rainfed       22,000    7,769   7,769  7,769   7,769  7,769   7,769    7,769         7,769    7,769
partly irrig.    27,000      9,338    9,409  9,198   9,238  9,414   9,321    9,327   9,398    9,309
fully irrig.  30,000   10,219  10,293  9,911  10,177 10,325  10,122   10,187    10,275   10,238
a/ There are no significant differences in the yield levels and input parameters between the various irrigation
districts.
b/ The differences in NVP per hectare among the irrigation districts are explained by differences in the costs for
water (see Table 9). Negative values indicate that the production does not fully pay for the used labor, which is
mostly family labor.



Page 45
Annex 4, Table 5: Cropping Pattern and Total Net Value of Production (NVP)
Cropping Pattem - Baojixia Irrigation District                                Net Value of Production (NVP) - Baojixia Irrigation District
Command Area:   190.320 ha                                                    (Million RMB)
existina situation      without prolect   with projer _                       existing situation       without proiect   with project
non-  partially  fully    non-  partially  fully    fully                     non-  partially  fully    non-  partially  fully    fully
irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated   _    irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated
Wheat        1,800 111,700  31,400   1,800  89,360  53,357   142,68           Wheat        -0.06   49.12   22.90   -0.06   39.30   38.92    104.07
Maize          200  91,000  29,000     200  72,800  49,279   131,777          Maize         0.02   40.19   28.54    0.02   32.15   48.50    129.70
Cotton               7,300   2,100            5,840   3,568    9,543          Cotton         -      5.68    3.02     -       4.55    5.14     13.74
Rape Seed        100   7,300   2,100     100   5,840   3,568    9,543         Rape Seed       0.00    7.24    4.35    0.00    5.80    7.39      19.76
Vegetables             6,100   2,000           4,880   3,399     9,088        Vegetables       -    119.86   44.68     -      95.89   75.93    203.04
Apples         100  12.800   4.000     100  10,240   6,797    18,176  -       Apples        0.78  119.53   40.87    0.78   95.62   69.46    185.74
Total cropping area   2,200 236,200  70,600   2,200 188,960 119,968  320,810  Sum of category    0.74  341.63  144.38    0.74  273.30  245.33    656.05
Command area       2,000 146,437  41,883   2,000 117,149  71,171   190,320    Total all areas          486.74                   519.37            656.05
Crop. Intensity(%)    110%    161%    169%    110%    161%    169%  169%      Incremental NVP                                                     136.68
Cropping Pattem - Jinghulqu Irrigation District                               Net Value of Production (NVP) - Jinghuiqu Irrigation District
Command Area:    88.660 ha                                                    'Million RMB)
existina situation      without oroiect   with projer __                      existino situation       without Droiect   with project
non-  partially  fully    non-  partially  fully    fully                     non-  partially  fully    non-  partially  fully    fully
irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated   _    irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated
Wheat        4,000  49,800  14,500   4,000  39,840  24,201    66,506          Wheat        -0.14   24.72   11.35   -0.14   19.78   18.95      52.07
Maize        1,000  41,000  13,600   1,000  32,800  22,699    62,378          Maize         0.12   20.43   14.35    0.12   16.34   23.96      65.84
Cotton         300   6,000   2,000     300   4,800   3,338     9,173          Cotton        0.03    5.10    3.00    0.03    4.08    5.01      13.78
Rape Seed        100   2,700   1,000     100   2,160   1,669    4,587         Rape Seed       0.00    2,83    2.12    0.00    2.27    3.55       9.74
Vegetables             1,800     500            1,440    835     2,293        Vegetables       -     35.71    11.25    -      28.57   18.78     51.60
Apples         100   6,700   2,000     100   5,360   3,338     9      -17     Apples        0.78   63.04   20.59    0.78   50.43   34.36      94.42
Total cropping area   5,500 108,000  33,600   5,500  86,400  56,079   154,112  Sum of category   079  151.83   62.67    0.79  121.46  104.60    287.46
Command area      4,670  64,660  19,330   4,670  51,728  32,262    88,660     Total all areas          215.28                   226.85            287.46
Crop. Intensity (%)    118%    167%    174%    118%    167%    174%  174%     Incremental NVP                                                      60.61
Cropping Pattem - Jlaokou Irrigation District                                 Net Value of Production (NVP) - Jiaokou Irrigation District
Command Area:    78.640 ha                                                    (Million RMB)
existina situation      without Project   with projec _                       existina situation       without project   with project
non-  partially  fully    non-  partially  fully    fully                     non-  partially  fully    non-  partially  fully    fully
irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated    gated  _       irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated
Wheat        2,600  44,000  13,000   2,600  35,200  21,701    59,003          Wheat        -0.09   14.44    6.60   -0.09   11.55   11.02      29.96
Maize          300  35,900  12,000     300  28,720  20,032    54,46           Maize         0.03   11.85    8.26    0.03    9.48   13.80      37.51
Cotton         300   7,500   2,600     300   6,000   4,340    11,801          Cotton        0.03    4.79    3.07    0.03    3.83    5.13      13.94
Rape Seed        100   2,650     900     100   2,120   1,502    4,085         Rape Seed       0.00    2.33    1.66    0.00    1.87    2.78       7.55
Vegetables       100   1,750    550      100   1,400     918     2,496        Vegetables      0.45   33.73   11.92    0.45   26.99   19.90      54.11
Apples         100   4,300   1,500     100   3,440   2,504    6,80            Apples        0.78   39.55   14.87    0.78   31.64   24.82      67.47
Total cropping area   3,500  96.100  30.550   3.500  76,880  50,997   138 656  Sum of category   1.20  106.69   46.39    1.20   85.36   77.44    210.54
Command area       3,330  57.983  17,327   3,330  46,387  28,923   78,640 _   Total all areas          154.28                   163.99            210.54
Crop. Intensity (%)    105%    166%    176%    105%    166%    176%  176%     Incremental NVP                                                      46.55|
to be continued



Page 46
Annex 4, Table 5: Cropping Paftern and Total Net Value of Production (NVP) (continued)
Cropping Pattern - Taoqupo Irrigation District                                   Net Value of Production (NVP) - Taoqupo Irrigation District
Command Area:    19.330 ha                                                      (Million RMB)
existina situation       without Droiect    with proied|                        existing situation        without project    with project
non-  partially  fully    non-  partially  fully    fully                       non-   partially  fully    non-   partially  fully  fully
irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated Irrigated irrigated  irrigated  |___irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated
Wheat         2,700   9,800   1,800   2,700   7,840   3,600    13,048           Wheat         -0.09    3.53    1.26   -0.09    2.82    2.52        9.13
Maize          600   5,300   1,300      600   4,240   2,600      9,423          Maize          0.07    1.92    1.23    0.07     1.53    2.46       8.90
Cotton                                                                          Cotton          -       -       -        -       -        -         -
Rape Seed        200   1,000      200     200     800     400      1,450        Rape Seed        0.01    0.91    0.41    0.01     0.73    0.82       2.96
Vegetables               400      10              320      200      725         Vegetables        -      7.75    2.23      -      6.20    4.45      16.13
Apples         200   1,800      400     200   1440       800     2  900         Apples         1.55   16.63    4.07    1.55    13.30    8.14      29.51
Total cropping area    3,700  18.300   3,800   3,700  14,640   7.600    27545    Sum of category    1.54   30.74    9.19    1.54   24.59   18.38       66.62
Command area       3,330  13,333   2,667   3,330  10,667   5,333    19,330  |  1Total all areas            41.46                    44.51              66.62
Crop. Intensity (%)    111%    137%    143%    111%    137%    143%   143%      Incremental NVP                                                        22.11
Cropping Pattern - Shitouhe Irrigation District                                  Net Value of Production (NVP) - Shitouhe Irrigation District
Command Area:     21.270 ha                                                     (Million RMB)
existing stuation        without Droiect    with projed |_l                     existina situation        without oroiect    with project
non-  partially  fully    non-  partially  fully    fully                       non-   partially  fully    non-   partially  fully  fully
irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated  -  .    irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated
Wheat         5,700   9,000   2,000   5,700   7,200   3,809    16,093           Wheat         -0.20    4.50    1.61   -0.20    3.60    3.07       12.97
Maize        2,000   8,700   2,000   2,000   6,960   3,809    16,093            Maize         0.23    4.37    2.17    0.23    3.50    4.14        17.48
Cotton                   0        0                                             Cotton          -       -       -        -       -       -          -
Rape Seed        300     800      270     300     640      514     2,173        Rape Seed        0.01    0.84    0.58    0.01     0.67    1.10       4.66
Vegetables               400       60             320      114      483         Vegetables        -      7.94    1.35      -      6.35    2.58      10.90
Apples         300      950     200     300     760      381 |   16 9  -        Apes           2.33    8.94    2.06 |   2.33    7.15    3.93      16.62
Total cropping area    8.300  19,850   4.530   8,300  15,880   8,628    36,451   Sum of category    2.37   26.60    7.78    2.37   21.28   14.82       62.62
Command area       6,670  11,957   2,643   6,670   9,565   5,035   .21,270      Total all areas            36.76                     38.48             62.62
Crop. Intensity (%)    124%    166%    171%1  124%    166%    171%    171%      IncrementalNVP                                                        24.15
Cropping Pattem - Fengjilashan Irrigation District                              Net Value of Production (NVP) - FengJiashan Irrigation District
Command Area:    85.580 ha                                                      (Million RMB)
existing situation       without Droiect    with projec                         existina situation        without Proiect    with project
non-  partially  fully    non-  partially  fully    fully                       non-   partially  fully    non-   partially  fully  fully
_  irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated Irrigated irrigated  irrigated        irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated
Wheat        15,300  39,000   11,900  15,300  31,200  19,661    64,212          Wheat         -0.53    16.62    7.85   -0.53    13.30   12.97     42.36
Maize         2,900  22,300   7,400   2,900  17,840  12,226    39,930           Maize         0.33    9.55    6.60    0.33    7.64   10.90        35.59
Cotton                   0        0                                             Cotton          -       -       -        -       -       -          -
Rape Seed        900   5,200   2,300      900   4,160   3,800    12,411         Rape Seed        0.03    5.09    4.60    0.03    4.07    7.60       24.83
Vegetables              1,850     450            1,480     743     2,428        Vegetables        -     36.27    9.96      -     29.01    16.46     53.74
Apples         700   6,350   1.500      700   5,080   2,478      8      -094    Apples    |   5.44   59.19   15.18|   5.44   47.35   25.09        81.93
Total cropping area   19,800  74,700  23,550   19,800  59,760  38,909   1270    Sumofcategory       5.28  126.71   44.19    5.28  101.37   73.01    238.45
Command area      18,000  51,720  15,860  18,000  41,376  26,204    85,580 _   Total all areas            176.18                    179.66            238.45
Crop. Intensity (%)    110%    144%    148%1  110%    144%    148%    148%      Incremental NVP                                                        58.79
to be continued



Page 47
Annex 4, Tabie 5: Cropping Pattern and Total N4et Value of Production (NVP) (continued)
Cropping Pattern - Yangmaowan lrrigation District                                 Net Value of Production (NVP) - Yangmaowan Irrigatlon District
Command Area:     19,280 ha                                                       (Million RMB)
existing situation        without project    with project                         existing situation        without project     with project
non-   partially  fully    non-   partially  fully    fully                       norl-  partially  fully    non-   partially  fully  fully
irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated        irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated
Wheat         2,500    9,200    2,500    2,500    7,360    4,253    13,616        Wheat         -0.09    3.96     1.77    -0.09    3.17     3.01      9.62
Maize          900   8,000    2,500      900   6,400   4,253    13,616            Maize          0.10    3.46     2.38    0.10     2.77     4.06     12.99
Cotton                    0        0                                              Cotton          -       -        -        -       -        -
Rape Seed         100     550     200      100     440      340      1,089        Rape Seed        0.00    0.54    0.41      0.00    0.43     0.70      2.23
Vegetables                400      100             320      170       545         Vegetables        -      7.85    2.23       -      6.28     a79       12.13
Apples          200   1,000      350     200      800     595      1,906  _       Apples         1.55    9.33     3.57     1.55    7.46    6.07       19.42
Total cropping area    3,700   19,150   5,650    3,700   15,320    9,611    30,772  Sum of category   1.57   25.14    10.35     1.57   20.11    17.61      56.39
Command area       3,330  12,410   3,540   3,330   9,928   6.022    19, 28        Total all areas             37.07                     39.30              56.39
Crop. Intensity (%)    111%    154%    160%    111%    154%    160%/c    160%     Incremental NVP                                                          17.09
Cropping Pattem - Luohuiqu Irrigation District                                    Net Value of Production (NVP) - Luohuiqu Irrigation District
Command Area:     53,550 ha                                                       (Million RMB)
existing situation        without project    with project                         existing situation        without project     with project
non-   partially  fully    non-   partially  fully    fully                       non-   partially  fully    non-   partially  fully  fully
irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated irrigated  Irrigated          irrigated irrigated  irrigated  Irrigated irrigated  irrigated  irigated
Wheat         3,200  27,300    7,400    3,200   21,840   12,893    37,680         Wheat         -0.11    13.31    5.70    -0.11    10.64    9.93      29.02
Maize          900  21,200    6,500      900   16,960   11,325    33,097          Maize          0.10    10.37    6.75    0.10     8.30    11.76     34.37
CoKton          600   7,100    2,100     600    5,680    3,659    10,693          Cotton         0.06     5.95    3.12     0.06    4.76     5.44      15.90
Rape Seed               2,000     600             1,600    1,045    3,055         Rape Seed         -      2.08     1.27      -      1.66    2.21       6.45
Vegetables               1,100     300              880     523      1,528        Vegetables        -      21.79    6.74      -      17.43    11.74    34.32
Apples                 5,100    1,500           4,080    2,613     7,638          Apples          -      47.93    15.41     -      38.34   26.85      78.48
Total cropping area    4,700   63,800   18,400    4,700  51,040   32,059    93,691  Sum of ategory    0.05   101.42    38.99    0.05    81.14    67.93    198.53
Command area       4,000  39.033   10,517   4,000  31,227   18,323    53,550      Total alt areas            140.46                    149.12             198.53
Crop. Intensity (%)    118%    163%    175%    118%    163%    175%     175%      Incremental NVP                                                          49.41
Cropping Pattem - Shibaochuan Irrigation District                                 Net Value of Production (NVP) - Shibaochuan Irrigation District
Command Area:     16,950 ha                                                       (Million RMB)
existing situation        without project    with project                         existing situation         without project    with project
non-   partially  fully    non-   partially  fully    fully                       non-   partially  fully    non-   partially  fully  fully
irrigated irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated irrigated  irrigated          irrigated irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated
Wheat         2,000   7,050      600    2,000    5,640    2,060    10,342         Wheat         -0.07     2.94    0.45    -0.07     2.35    1.53       7.69
Maize         1,200   4,650     500    1,200    3,720    1,717    8,619           Maize          0.14     1.95    0.50     0.14    1.56     1.72      8.64
Cotton                    0        0                                              Cotton                   -       -        -       -
Rape Seed         300     800      60      300     640      206      1,034        Rape Seed        0.01    0.78     0.13     0.01    0.62     0.43      2.16
Vegetables                700      50        0     560      172       862         Vegetables        -      13.70    1.12      -     10.96     3.84      19.29
Apples          500    1,600     100     500    1,280     343      1,724     t    Apples         3.88    14.89    1.02     3.88    11.92    3.52      17.65
Total cropping area    4,000   14,800    1310    4,000   11,840    4,498    22,581  Sum ofcategory    3.96    34.25    3.22     3.96    27.40    11.04     55.43
Command area       4,000  11,967      983   4,000    9,573    3,377    16,950     Total all areas             41.43                     42.41              55 43
Crop. Intensity (%)    100%    124%    133%    100%    124%    133%     133%      Incremental NVP                                                  t       13.02
to be continued



Page 48
Annex 4, Table 5: Cropping Pattern and Total Net Value of Production (NVP) (continued)
Cropping Pattern - Nine Irrigation Districts                                      Net Value of Production (NVP) - Nine Irrigation Districts
Command Area:    573,580 ha                                                       (Million RMB)
existing situation        without project    with project                         existing situation        without project     with project
non-   partially  fully    non-   partially  fully    fully                       non-   partially  fully    non-   partially  fully  fully
irrigated irrigated  irrigated irrigated irrigated  irrigated  irrigated         irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated  irrigated
Wheat        39,800  306,850   85,100  39,800  245,480  1i45,535   423,184        Wheat          -1.4   133.1    59.5    -1.4   106.5   101.9        296.9
Maize        10,000 238,050   74,800   10,000  190,440  127,939   369,399         Maize           1.2   104.1    70.8      1.2    83.3   121.3       351.0
Cotton        1,200  27,900    8,800    1,200  22,320   14,905    41,209          Cotton          0.1    21.5    12.2      0.1    17.2    20.7        57.4
Rape Seed       2,100   23,000    7,630   2,100   18,400   13,046    39,426       Rape Seed         0.1    22.7    15.5       01     18.1    26.6       80.4
Vegetables        100  14,500   4,110      100  11,600    7,073    20,448         Vegetables        0.4   284.6    91.5      0.4   227.7   157.5       455.3
Apples        2,200  40,600   11,550   2,200   32,480   19,851    58,028          Apples         17.1   379.0   117.6    171    3032    202.2        591.2
Total cropping area   55,400  650,900  191,990   55,400  520,720  328,350   951,693  Sum of category  17.5   945.0   367.2    17.5   756.0   630.2    1,832.1
Command area      49,330  409,500  114,750  49,330  327,600  196,650   573,580    Total all areas           1,329.7                   1,403.7            1,832.1
Crop. Intensity (%)    112%    159%    167%    112%    159%    167%     166%      Incremental NVP                                                         428.4
Average Cropping                                                                  Break-down of Annual Incremental Net Value of Production:
Intensity (%):            157%                      158%             166%
RMB mill.   %
By crop:    Wheat                        89.8    21%
Maize                       145.3     34%
Cotton                       19.3      5%
Rape Seed                    35.6      8%
Vegetables                   69.7     16%
Apples                       68.7     16%
Total                       428.4    100%
By-improving
land from:    partial irrigation to full irrigation   290.4  68%
rainfed to full irrigation  138.0     32%
Total                       428.4    100%



Page 49
Annex 4, Table 6: Economic Cash Flow and Internal Rate of Return (RMB million)
Baojixia          Jinghuiqu          Jiaokou          'Taoqupo          Shitouhe          Fengjiashan       Yangmaowan          Luohuiqu         Shibaochuan         Total Project
>                                                                   >- > 4      4  - 4  >                                                      >-~ . 4
4)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                                     0
1  63      -     -63    19     - -19  27         --27  13            --13    6       - -6    16        -    -16  13        - -13    20        - -20      8     -    -8 185          -  -185
2      84      -     -84  25       - -25  36         --3618             --18    9        - -9    21        -    -21  17        - -17    27        - -27  11        - -11247             -  -247
3     105    14    -92    3 1      6   -25   44      5   -40   22      2   -20   1 1    2    -8    27      6     -21   21      2   -19    33      5   -28   14    1   -13  309        43    -266
4      84  41        -43    25    18    -7  36    14  -22  18          7  -11    9      7    -1    21    18       -417         5  -12    27    15  -12  11         4    -7 247       129    -118
5      84  68       -16  25  30          5  36  23-12  18  11               -7    9  12       3    21  29          8  17      9    -8    27  25    -2  11          7    -5 247       214      -33
6        -  109    109       -   48   48       -   37   37       -   1 8    18    -   19   19        -   47       47     -   14    14       -   40    40      -   10    10      -    343    343
7        -  137    137       -   61    61      -   47   47       - 22   22    -   24    24           -   59       59     -   17    17       - 49   49         -   13    13      -    428    428
8        - 137      137      -  61    61       -  4747           -2222            -  24  24          -  59        59     -  17      17      -49  49           -   13  13        -    428    428
9        -  137    137       -   61   61       -   47   47       - 22   22    -   24    24           -   59       59     -   17    17       - 49   49         -   13    13      -    428    428
10       - 137       137     -  61    61        -  4747          -2222             -  24  24         -  59        59     -  17      17      -49  49           - 13    13        -    428    428
1 1      -  137    137       -   61   61        -   47    47      - 22   22    -   24   24            -   59      59     -   17    17       - 49   49         -   13    13      -    428    428
12       - 137       137     -  61    61        -  4747          -2222             -  24  24         -  59        59     -  17      17      -49  49           - 13    13        -    428    428
13       - 137       137     -  61    61        -  4747           -2222            -  24  24          -  59       59     -  17    17         -49  49          -  13    13       -    428    428
14       - 137       137     -  61    61        -  4747          -2222             -  24  24         -  59        59     -  17      17      -49  49           - 13       13     -    428    428
15       - 137       137     -  61    61        -  4747          -2222             -  24  24          -  59       59     -  17      17      -49  49           - 13    13        -    428    428
16       - 137       137     -  61    61        -  4747           -2222            -  24  24          -  59       59     -  17      17      -4949             - 13    13        -    428    428
17       - 137       137     -  61    61        -  4747           -2222            -  24  24          -  59       59     -  17      17      -49  49           - 13    13        -    428    428
18       - 137       137     -  61    61        -  4747          -2222             -  24  24         -  59        59     -  17      17      -49  49           - 13    13        -    428    428
19       - 137       137     -  61    61        -  4747           -2222            -  24  24          -  59       59     -  17      17      -49  49           - 13    13        -    428    428
20       - 137       137      -  61    61       -  4747           -2222            -  24  24          -  59       59      -  17      17     -49  49           - 13    13        -    428    428
IRR:                 24%               34%               20%               19%               38%                 37%               15%                27%               18%                   26%
NPV: (OCC12%)          289               172                74                32                73                 178                 14               118                17                   967
gensitivity Analysis (IRRs):
Cost Increase:
By 10%                22%               31%                18%              17%               35%                 35%                14%               25%               16%                   24%
By 20%                20%               29%                17%               16%              33%                  32%               12%               23%               15%                   22%
Benefit decrease
By 10%                22%               31%                18%              17%               35%                 34%                14%               25%               16%                   23%
By 20%                20%               28%                16%              15%               32%                  31%               12%               22%               14%                   21%
Combined Cost increase and benefit decrease
By 10%                20%               29%                16%              15%               32%                  32%               12%               23%               14%                   21%
If partially irrigated land increases due to further deterioration of the system over the next 8 years by various percentage figures:
By5%                  25%               35%                21%              19%               38%                  38%               16%               28%               18%                   27%
By 10%                27%               36%                22%              20%               39%                 38%                16%               29%               18%                   27%
By 20%                29%               39%                24%              21%               40%                  39%               17%               31%               19%                   29%



Page 50
Anne 4, Table 7: Crop Water Requirements and Costs of Water
Baojixia                                                    Jinghuiqu                                                      Jiaokou
Cropped Cropped Water Cost per Water  Water   Total   Total Cropped Cropped Water Cost per Water  Water   Total   Total  Cropped Cropped  Water Cost per Water  Water   Total   Total
area  area with used    ha    used   used   costs   costs   area  area with used    ha    used   used   costs   costs   area  area with  used    ha    used   used    costs   costs
present  project             without  with   without  with  present  project               without  with   without  with  present  project               without  with   without  with
situaton                      project project  project  project situation                   project project  project  project situation                   project project  project project
(ha)    (ha)  (m3/ha) (RMB/ha)   (mill. MI)  (RMB mill.)    (ha)    (ha)  (m'/ha) (RMB/ha)   (mill. mI)    (RMB mill.)   (ha)    (ha)  (m'/ha) (RM!B/ha)   (mill. in3)   (RMB mill.)
Water Fee                  0.132 RMB/m3                                                 0.098 RMB/m3                                                   0.238 RMB/m3
Wheat
partlyirrig. 111,700     0 1,200    158  134.0        -    17.7       -  49,800       0 1,200      118   59.8      -      5.9      -  44,000        -  1,200    286   52.8        -     12.6      -
fullyirrig.   31,400 142,683 1,800    237   56.5  256.8     7.4   33.8  14,500  66,506 1,800       177   26.1  119.7      2.6   11.8  13,000  59,003  1,800    429   23.4  106.2         5.6  25.3
Maize
partlyirrig.  91,000     0  1,200    158  109.2       -    14.4       -  41,000       0 1,200      118   49.2      -      4.8      -  35,900        -  1,200    286   43.1        -     10.3      -
fullyirrig.   29,000 131,777 2,400    316   69.6  316.3     9.2   41.7  13,600  62,378 2,400       236   32.6  149.7      3.2   14.7  12,000  59,003  2,400    572   28.8  141.6         6.9   33.7
Cotton
partly irrig.   7,300    0  1,500    198   11.0       -      1.4      -   6,000       0  1,500     147    9.0      -      0.9      -   7,500        -  1,500    357   11.3        -      2.7      -
fully irrig.    2,100   9,543 2,100    277    4.4   20.0    0.6    2.6   2,000   9,173 2,100       206    4.2   19.3      0.4    1.9   2,600  11,801  2,100    500    5.5   24.8         1.3   5.9
Rape Seed
partly irrig.   7,300    0 1,200    158    8.8        -      1.2      -   2,700       0  1,200     118    3.2      -      0.3      -   2,650        -  1,200    286    3.2        -      0.8      -
fully irrig.    2,100   9,543  1,800    237    3.8   17.2   0.5    2.3   1,000   4,587  1,800      177    1.8   8.3       0.2    0.8    900   4,085  1,800    429        1.6    7.4      0.4    1.8
Vegetables
partly irrig.   6,100    0 4,000    527   24.4        -     3.2       -   1,800       0 4,000      393    7.2      -      0.7      -   1,750        -  4,000    953    7.0        -      1.7      -
fully irrig.    2,000   9,088 5,400    712   10.8  49.1      1.4    6.5    500   2,293 5,400       530    2.7   12.4      0.3    1.2    550   2,496  5,400   1,287    3.0   13.5         0.7    3.2
Apples
partly irrig.  12,800    0 1,500    198   19.2        -     2.5       -   6,700       0  1,500     147   10.1      -      1.0      -   4,300        -  1,500    357    6.5        -      1.5      -
fully irrig.    4,000  18,176 2,500    329   10.0  45.4     1.3    6.0   2,000   9,173 2,500      245    5.0  22.9        0.5    2.3   1,500   6,808  2,500      596    3.8   17.0       0.9   4.1
Total Water Used at Field Level (m3 mill.)  461.7  704.8                                                  210.9  332.3                                                  189.8  310.4
Incremental Water Used at Field Level (m3 mill.)   243.2                                                         121.4                                                         120.7
Potential Income from Water Fees (RMB mill.)                 60.8   92.9                                                   20.7   32.6                                                   45.2   74.0
Incremental Income from Water Fees (RMB mill.)                      32.0                                                          11.9                                                          28.8
to be continued



Page 51
Anne 4, Table 7: Crop Water Requirements and Costs of Water (continued)
Taoqupo                                                        Shitouhe                                                      Fengjiashan
Cropped Cropped  Water Cost per Water  Water   Total   Total Cropped Cropped  Water Cost per  Water  Water   Total   Total  Cropped Cropped  Water Cost per Water  Water   Total   Total
area  area with  used    ha     used   used   costs   costs   area  area with  used     ha     used   used   costs   costs   area  area with  used     ha      used   used   costs   costs
present  project               without  with   without  with  present  project                 without with   without  with  present  project                  without  with   without  with
situation                       project project project project situation                       project project project project situation                      project project  project  project
(ha)    (ha)  (m3/ha) (RMBtha)   (mill. m3)    (RAB mill.)    (ha)    (ha)  (m3/ha) (RAMBha)   (mill. mn')     (RMB mill.)    (ha)    (ha)   (m3/ha) (RMB/ha)   (mill. mn)     (RhLB mill.)
Water Fee                    0.213 PAIB/mm                                                  a0.63 RMB/m'                                                    0.137 RMB/m'
Wheat
partly irrig.   9,800     -  1,200     255    11.8      -      2.5      -   9,000        -  1,200       76    10.8     -      0.7      -  39,000         -  1,200      164   46.8       -      6.4
fullyirrig.    1,800   13,048  1,800   383    3.2   23.5       0.7    5.0   2,000   16,093  1,800      114    3.6  29.0       0.2    1.8  11,900  64,212  1,800       246   21.4  115.6        2.9   15.8
Maize
partly irrig.   5,300     -  1,200     255    6.4       -      1.4      -   8,700        -  1,200       76   10.4       -     0.7       -  22,300        -  1,200      164   26.8       -      3.7      -
fully irrig.    1,300   9,423  2,400   510    3.1   22.6       0.7    4.8   2,000  16,093  2,400       152    4.8   38.6      0.3    2.4   7,400  39,930  2,400       328    17.8   95.8       2.4   13.1
Cotton
partlyirrig.     -        -  1,500     319       -      -        -      -       -        -  1,500       95       -      -        -      -       -        -  1,500     205       -       -
fully irrig.     -        -  2,100     446       -      -        -      -       -        -  2,100      133      -      -        -      -        -        -  2,100     287       -       -
Rape Seed
partly irrig.   1,000     -  1,200     255     1.2      -      0.3      -     800        -  1,200       76     1.0      -      0.1      -   5,200        -  1,200      164    6.2       -      0.9
fullyirrig.    200    1,450  1,800     383    0.4    2.6       0.1    0.6     270   2,173  1,800       114    0.5    3.9      0.0    0.2   2,300  12,411  1,800       246    4.1   22.3        0.6    3.1
Vegetables
partly irrig.  400        -  4,000     850    1.6       -      0.3      -    400         -  4,000      253     1.6      -      0.1      -   1,850        -  4,000     547    7.4        -      1.0
fully irrig.   100     725  5,400    1,148    0.5    3.9       0.1    0.8      60     483  5,400       341    0.3    2.6      0.0    0.2      450   2,428  5,400      738    2.4   13.1        0.3    1.8
Apples
partlyirrig.    1,800     -  1,500     319    2.7       -      0.6      -     950        -  1,500       95     1.4      -      0.1      -   6,350        -  1,500     205    9.5        -      1.3      -
fully irrig.   400   2,900  2,500      531     1.0   7.2       0.2    1.5    200    1,609  2,500       158    0.5    4.0      0.0    0.3   1,500   8,094  2,500       342    3.8   20.2        0.5    2.8
Total Water Used at Field Level (mi mill.)     31.9   59.9                                                     34.9  78.1                                                     146.2  267.1
Incremental Water Used at Field Level (ml mill.)       28.0                                                           43.2                                                           120.9
Potential Income from Water Fees (RMB mill.)                    6.8   12.7                                                      2.2    4.9                                                     20.0   36.5
Incremental Income from Water Fees (RMB mill.)                          5.9                                                            2.7                                                            16.5
to be continued



Page 52
Annex 4, Table 7: Crop Water Requirements and Costs of Water (continued)
Yangmaowan                                                   Luohuiqu                                                          Shibaochuan
Cropped Cropped Water Cost per Water  Water   Total   Total Cropped Cropped  Water Cost per Water  Water   Total   Total Cropped  Cropped  Water Cost per Water  Water   Total   Total
area  area with  used   ha      used   used   costs   costs   area  area with  used    ha      used   used   costs   costs   area   area with  used    ha     used   used    costs   costs
present  project                without with   without  with  present  project                 without  with   without  with  present  project                without  with   without  with
situation                       project project project project situation                      project project project project situation                       project project  project project
(ha)    (ha)  (m'/ha) (RMB/ha)   (mill. mI)    (RMB mill.)    (ha)    (ha)  (m'/ha) (RNM/ha)   (mill. m')     (RMB mill.)    (ha)    (ha)   (-'/ha) (RMB/ha)   (mill. ml)     (RMB mill.)
Water Fee                     0.19 RMB/m3                                                   0.111 RMB/m3                                                    0.140 RMB/m'
Wheat
partlyirrig.   9,200      -  1,200     232   11.0       -      2.1      -  27,300        -  1,200      134   32.8       -     3.7      -   7,050         -  1,200     168    8.5        -      1.2     -
fully irrig.    2,500  13,616  1,800   348    4.5   24.5       0.9    4.7   7,400  37,680  1,800      201    13.3   67.8      1.5    7.6     600   10,342  1,800    252       1.1   18.6      0.2    2.6
Maize
partly irrig.   8,000     -  1,200     232    9.6       -      1.9      -  21,200        -  1,200      134   25.4       -     2.8      -   4,650         -  1,200     168    5.6       -      0.8       -
fully irrig.    2,500  13,616  2,400   463    6.0  32.7        1.2   6.3   6,500  33,097  2,400       268   15.6   79.4       1.7    8.9     500    8,619  2,400    336       1.2   20.7      0.2    2.9
Cotton
partly irrig.     -       -  1,500     290       -      -        -      -   7,100        -  1,500      167   10.7       -      1.2     -        -        -  1,500    210        -      -        -       -
fully irrig.     -        -  2,100     405       -      -        -      -   2,100  10,693  2,100      234    4.4   22.5       0.5    2.5        -        -  2,100    294
Rape Seed
partlyirrig.   550        -  1,200     232    0.7       -      0.1      -   2,000        -  1,200      134    2.4       -     0.3      -      800        -  1,200     168     1.0      -      0.1       -
fully irrig.   200    1,089  1,800     348    0.4    2.0       0.1    0.4    600   3,055  1,800       201     1.1    5.5      0.1    0.6      60    1,034  1,800    252    0.1    1.9         0.0    0.3
Vegetables
partly irrig.  400        -  4,000     772    1.6       -      0.3      -   1,100        -  4,000     446    4.4        -     0.5      -     700         -  4,000    560    2.8         -     0.4       -
fully irrig.   100     545  5,400    1,043    0.5    2.9       0.1    0.6    300    1,528  5,400      602     1.6    8.2      0.2    0.9      50       862  5,400    756    0.3    4.7        0.0    0.7
Apples
partly irrig.    1,000    -  1,500     290    1.5       -      0.3      -   5,100        -  1,500      167    7.7       -     0.9      -   1,600         -  1,500    210    2.4         -     0.3       -
fully irrig.   350   1,906  2,500      483    0.9    4.8       0.2    0.9   1,500   7,638  2,500      279    3.8   19.1       0.4    2.1      100    1,724  2,500    350    0.3    4.3        0.0    0.6
Total Water Used at Field Level (m3 mill.)     36.7   66.9                                                    123.1  202.6                                                    23.1   50.1
Incremental Water Used at Field Level (mn mill.)      30.2                                                            79.5                                                            27.0
Potential Income from Water Fees (RMB mill.)                    7.1   12.9                                                     13.7  22.6                                                       3.2    7.0
Incremental Income from Water Fees (RMB mill.)                         5.8                                                             8.9                                                             3.8



Page 53
Annex 4, Table 8
Water Requirements at Field Level
and Expected Income from Water Charges
Total water used at field level   Potential income from water  Estimated sales of water by
(mill.m3)              charge (RMB mill.)     Irrigation District (RMB mill.) a/
present future with  incre -  present future with  incre -   present  future with  Incre-
project   mental           project   mental  (40% of   project   mental
demand)   (80% of
demand)
Baojixia         461.7     704.8   243.2    60.8        92.9    32.0       24.3       74.3    50.0
Jinghuiqu        210.9     332.3   121.4    20.7        32.6     11.9       8.3       26.1    17.8
Jiaokou          189.8     310.4   120.7    45.2        74.0    28.8       18.1       59.2    41.1
Taoqupo           31.9      59.9    28.0       6.8      12.7      5.9       2.7       10.2     7.5
Shitouhe          34.9      78.1    43.2       2.2       4.9      2.7       0.9        4.0     3.1
Fengjiashan      146.2     267.1    120.9    20.0       36.5     16.5       8.0       29.2    21.2
Yangmaowan        36.7      66.9    30.2       7.1      12.9      5.8       2.8       10.3     7.5
Luohuiqu         123.1     202.6    79.5    13.7        22.6      8.9       5.5       18.1    12.6
Shibaochuan       23.1      50.1    27.0       3.2       7.0      3.8       1.3        5.6     4.3
Total          1,258.2   2,072.2   814.0   179.8       296.2   116.4       71.9      236.9   165.0
a/ It is assumed that the remaining water comes from other sources such as ground water or are not paid for.



Page 54
Annex 4, Table 9: Economic Operation and Maintenance Costs (yr 5 to 20 after project start, constant 1998 prices)
6                                                                      C_
,  Vg ~ ~~~~ ~            0 Sm  .2                                            o - s 
z        0                           0       0       9        0                90 
Parameters for Cost Calculation
Total Command Area                     '000 ha      190.32    88.66    78.64   19.33   21.27    85.58   19.28    53.55   16.95
Fbxed Assets
Civil works before project        (I) RMB miill.    423.3    153.3    168.8   87.5   27.4    122.6   19.5    82.3   37.6
Civil works after project         (2) RMB mill.    764.6    251.2    265.3  160.9   45.6    159.5   89.6    196.9   70.3
Equipment before project          (3) RMB mill.       33.7      5.8     31.0     1.6    3.6       38.9     1.5      3.8    1.7
Equipment after project          (4) RMBmnill.        62.1     11.1     73.4     4.3     4.9     43.5      4.4      5.5    3.9
Staff
Management staff                 (5)    No.            95        33       56       8       9       33       9       1 8      8
Administrative and field staff    (6)    No.          380       129      226      34      35      127      30       69      39
Pumping Pararneters
Installed capacity               (7)    MW           28.54     6.67    29.49    0.91    0.20    33.62    3.29      4.23    0.14
Serviced area by pumping          (8)  'OOO ha       61.40     9.67    78.64    1.30    0.50    29.27    4.00      10.7   0.13
Max. needed pump running time     (9)  lh/year       1,542    2,098    3,346    448   2,048    1,372   1,873    2,554   l,535
Aggregated average lifl          (I10)    m           34.1     68.0     35.0   17.8   35.0        89.0   78.3      47.0   95.0
Water Demtand
Total at field level             (1 1)  mill.m3       705       332      310      60      78      267      67      203      50
of which demand in:
Areas serviced by pumping       (12)  mill.m3        227       36      310      4.0     2.0       9 1     1 4      40     0.4
Areas serviced by gravity       (13)  mill.m3        477      296         -     56      76       176      53      162      50
Total demand at head works       (14)  mill.ml       1,410      665      621    120    156        534    134       405    100
of which demand in:
A^reas serviced by pumping      (15)  mill.m3        284       45      621      5.0     2.5      114      17       51     0.5
Areas serviced by gravity       (16)  mill.m3      1,125      619              115      154      420     116      355    100
Operating Costs
Staff Costs
Management                       (17) RMB mill.       1.14     0.40     0.67    0.10    0.11      0.40    0.11     0.22    0.10
Admin. and field staff           (18) RMB mill.       3.04     1.03     1.81    0.27    0.28      1.02    0.24     0.55    0.31
Other (pension, etc.)            (19) RMB mill.       0.78     0.27     0.47    0.07    0.07      0.26    0.07     0.14    0.08
Sub-total staff costs                 RMB mill.       4.96     1.70     2.95    0.44    0.46      1.68    0.41     0.91   0Q48
Office and Management Costs           (20) RMB rmill.      8.36     2.86     4.96    0.74    0.78     2.82    0.70      1.54    0.82
Energy
Power needed at full supply      (21)  MWh/y.    44,003   13,985   98,659    407    401   46,140   6,163   10,795    207
Pumping costs at full supply     (22) RMB mill.    17.60       5.59    39.46    0.16    0.16    18.46    2.47      4.32    0.08
Other                            (23) RMB miill.
Pumping cost per m3              (24)    Fen           6.2     12.3      6.4     3.2      6.4     16 2    14.2      8.5   17.3
Sub-total Operating Costs                                 30.93    10.15    47.37    1.34    1.40    22.96    3.57      6.77    1.38
Maintenance and Periodic Overhaul and Repair Costs
Civil works                      (25) RMB mill.       15.3      5.0      5.3     3.2     0.9       3.2     1.8      3.9    1.4
Equipment                        (26) RMB mill.        6.2      1.1      7.3     0.4     0.5       4.4     0.4      0.6    0.4
Sub-total Maintenance and Overhaul         RMB mill.       21.5      6.1     12.6    3.6       1.4      7.5     2.2      4.5     1.8
Loan Repayment
Loan size                        (27) RMB mill.   217.37    93.66    60.46   44.74   10.13    20.54   42.91    65.64   20.96
Loan Interest Rate (% p.a.)      (28)   8.0%
Repayment afterS5y. grace (years)   (29)  15
Annual constant payments         (30) RMB mill.    25.40    10.94       7.06    5.23    1.18      2.40    5.01     7.67    2.45
TOTAL COSTS(I100% use)                 (31) RMB mill.    77.82    27.22    67.08   10.21    3.98    32.90   10.82    18.93    5~63
TOTAIL COSTS (80% use)                 (32) RMB mill.    74.30    26.10    59.19   10.18    3.95    29.21   10.33    18.06    5.62
TOTAL COSTS (40% use)                  (33) RMB mill.    67.26    23.86    43.40   10.11    3.89    21.83    9.34    16.34    5.58
Costs lateral entrance (100% use)     (34)  Fen/m3?        11.0      8.2     21.6   17.1      5.1      12.3   16.2       9.3    11.2
Costs lateral entrance (80% use)      (35)  Fen/ml         13.2      9.8     23.8    21.3    6.3       13.7   19.3      11.1   14.0
Costs lateral entrance (40% use)      (36)  Fen/m`         23.9     18.0     35.0   42,2    12.4       20.4   34.9      20.2   27.8
to be continued



Page 55
Annex 4, Table 9: Economic Operation and Maintenance Costs (yr 5 to 20 after project start constant 1998 prices)
(continued)
z                                            0
S     .. X                                      m       j     
Cost break-down at an utilization level of 80%
Irrigation staff and office costs  (37)  Fen/m3       2.4      1.7      3.2    2.4    2.0        2.1    2.1       1.5    3.2
Electricity and other energy     (38)  Fen/m3         2.5      1.7     12.7    0.3    0.2        6.9    3.7       2.1    0.2
Overhaul and repair              (39)  Fen/m3         3.8      2.3      5.1     7.6    2.2       3.5    4.2       2.8    4.5
Loan and interest repayment      (40)  Fen/m3         4.5      4.1      2.8    10.9    1.9       1.1    9.4       4.7    6.1
Existing Water Charges (end 1998)           Fen/m3        11.6     10.0     11.5   11.5    9.5        7.5   16.6    22.0   23.0
(excluding costs for electricity)
Economic Costs used in the Economic Costs Benefit Analysis (loan repayment costs excluded):
Withoutproject(40%level)        (41)  Fen/m3         13.6      8.9     22.9   20.3      8.6     14.7   14.3       9.6   15.5
With project (80% level)        (42)  Fen/m3          8.7      5.7     21.0   10.3    4.4       12.5    9.9       6.4    7.9
Notes, assumptions and method of calculation:
(I) Estimation provided by PMO
(2)  (1) plus estimated project investment costs
(3)  Estimation provided by PMO
(4)  (3) plus estimated project investment costs
(5)  Information provided by PMO
(6)  Information provided by PMO
(7) Information provided by PMO.
(8) Information provided by PMO.
(9) Maximum pumping needs to serve full water demand. Estimation based on water demand, average lift, installed capacity
and an assumed pumping efficiency of 60%.
(10) Average accumulated lift by surface water pumping (gravity serviced area excluded).
(11) Calculated from crop budgets and cropping pattern used in the financial and economic analysis.
(12) Assuming same per hectare demand in areas served by pumping and areas served by gravity.
(13) Assuming same per hectare demand in areas served by pumping and areas served by gravity.
(14) Assuming an overall conveyance efficiency of 50%
(15) Assuming an average conveyance efficiency of 60% (Jiaokou 50%) from pumping station to field.
(16) (13)-(15)
(17) Total average annual staff costs of RMB 12,000 per staff.
(18) Total average annual staff costs of RMB 8,000 per staff.
(19) 25% of active staff number with a pension level of 75% of salary level. ((5)+(6))*25%*75%
(20) 80% of salary costs for office operation (transportation, electricity, communication, consumables, etc.)
(21) Pumping efficiency of 60%.
(22) (7)*(9)/(l,000)*0.40 RMB (assuming electricity price of RMB 0.40 per kWh
(23) undefined
(24) (22)1(15)*100
(25) 2% of civil works assets.
(26) 10% of equipment assets.
(27) Preliminary cost and loan disbursement estimation, excluding investment in minor distribution system.
(28) Preliminary
(29) Preliminary
(30) Assuming constant annual repayments over 15 periods
(31) Assuming that 100% of the water demand at field level would be supplied from the system.
(32) Assuming that 80% of the water demand at field level would be supplied from the system.
(33) Assuming that 60% of the water demand at field level would be supplied from the system.
(34) If 100% of the calculated field demand would be supplied from the systems, - theoretical demand.
(35) If 80% of the calculated field demand would be supplied from the systems;- target to be reached.
(36) If 40% of the calculated field demand would be supplied from the systems;- reflecting current supply level.



Page 56
Annex 4, Table 10: Financial Analysis of Typical Farming Households in the Project Area
Farm A: Rainfed cropping without   Cropping Pattern   Net Income from  Return to    Change in
project will receive full irrigation on          Cropping without  Family Labor    Family
70% of the crop land                               family labor                   Income
(ha)            (RMB)         (RMB/day)  (RMB/year)
without   with   without   with   without with
Total area                         1.00    1.00
Rainfed                         1.00    0.30
Partially irrigated                -        -
Fully irrigated                    -    0.70
Cropping intensity             110%      1.50
Crops
Wheat rainfed                   0.80     0.30     891       334
Wheat fully irrigated                    0.50        -     1,123
Maize rainfed                   0.20              246         -
Maize fully irrigated                    0.50       -      1,109
Rape seed rainfed               0.10               85         -
Rape seed fully irrigated                0.20       -       617
Total                                              1,221     3,183  18.51 25.99      +1,962
Annual loan and interest repayment (see calculation below)                             -144
Farm B: Farm with partial       Cropping Pattern   Net Income from   Return to    Change in
irrigation receives full irrigation on           Cropping without  Family Labor    Family
all land                                           family labor                   Income
(ha)            (RMB)         (RMMB/day)  (RMB/year)
without   with   without    with   without with
Total area                         1.00    1.00
Rainfed
Partially irrigated             1.00
Fully irrigated                    -    1.00
Cropping intensity             110%    160%
Crops
Wheat partially irrigated       0.60             1,134        -
Wheat fully irrigated                    0.60       -      1,348
Maize partially irrigated       0.20              332         -
Maize fully irrigated                    0.60        -     1,331
Rape seed partially irrigated   0.10              186         -
Rape seed fully irrigated                0.20        -      617
Apple partially irrigated       0.20             2,392        -
Apple fully irrigated                    0.20        -    2,600
Total                                              4,044     5,896  31.35 32.22       +1,851
Annual loan and interest repayment (see calculation below)                               -46
to be continued



Page 57
Annex 4, Table 10: Financial Analysis of Typical Farming Households in the Project Area
Farm C. Small and poor rainfedfarm     Cropping Pattem    Net Income from    Return to Family   Change in
receives irrigation on small area and plants              Cropping without       Labor       Family Income
vegetables and rape seed                                    family labor
(ha)              (RMB)           (RMB/day)      (RMB/year)
without   with    without    with    without  with
Total area                                0.60      0.60
Rainfed                                0.60      0.50
Partially irrigated
Fully irrigated                           -      0.10
Cropping intensity                    117%      133%
Crops
Wheat rainfed                          0.50      0.50      557       557
Maize rainfed                          0.10      0.20       123      246
Rape seed rainfed                      0.10                 85          -
Rape seed fully irrigated                        0.05         -      154
Vegetables fully irrigated                       0.05         -     1,299
Total                                                         764      2,255    18.64 36.38         +1,491
Annual loan and interest repayment (see calculation below)                                             -21
Farm D: Apple and vegetable producer   Cropping Pattern   Net Income from    Return to Family    Change in
with unreliable water supply receives                     Cropping without       Labor       Family Income
reliable irrigation                                         family labor
(ha)              (RMB)           (RMB/day)      (RMB/year)
without    with    without    With    without  with
Total area                                1.20      1.20
Rainfed                                0.20
Partially irrigated                    1.00
Fully irrigated                           -      1.20
Cropping intensity                    125%      125%
Crops
Wheat rainfed                          0.20                223
Wheat partially irrigated              0.10                 189         -
Wheat fully irrigated                            0.30         -      674
Maize rainfed                          0.20                246          -
Maize fully irrigated                            0.10         -      222
Cotton partially irrigated             0.10                263          -
Cotton fully irrigated                           0.10         -      362
Vegetables partially irrigated         0.10               2,244
Vegetables fully irrigated                       0.20         -    5,195
Apple partially irrigated              0.80               9,568
Apple fully irrigated                            0.80         -    10,400
Total                                                       12,732    16,852    40.48 48.22         +4,121
Annual loan and interest repayment (see calculation below)                                             -88
Loan Repayment Calculation                Unit      New areas Improved areas
Loan size (35% of investment costs)  RMB mill.       46.86          38.64
Area                                    ha          49,330        180,000
Loan size per hectare                 RMB/ha           950           215
Loan Interest Rate (% p.a.)            8.0%
Repayment years                          6
Annual constant payments            RMB/halyear    205.48           46.43



Page 58
Annex 5
Financing Plan
Source of Funds               ] year  L year 2lyear 3 lyear 4 year5lyear 6    Total
(million Yuan)                   %
I. For the Five Province Owned IDs 1/
From Provincial Government:
Finance Bureau: Special Fund for  55.5   59.7   59.4   53.1   47.8   14.9  290.4  51
Water Resources
Planning Commission Infrastructure  10.4   12.4   13.6   11.9   10.1    8.4   66.8  12
Capital Fund
Provincial Finance Bureau Special  10.4   12.4   13.6   11.9   10.1    8.4  66.8  12
Fund                                 I                                          I
Sub-total              76.3   84.5   86.6   76.9   68.0   31.7  424.0  74
From Local Governments and Beneficiaries:
Baoji                           5.6    5.2   5.1    3.8    3.2    2.6  25.5   5
Xianyang                       12.1   10.1   11.8   10.9   13.1   10.4  68.5  12
Weinan                          3.2    6.7   5.5    5.9    8.1    3.1   32.5   6
Tongchuan                       0.6    0.9    0.9    0.7    0.7    0.4   4.2   1
Xian                            1.5   2.5    3.0    3.0    3.7    2.0   15.6   3
Sub-total              23.0   25.4   26.3   24.3   28.8   18.5  146.3  26
TOTAL                 99.3  109.9  112.9  101.2   96.8   50.2  570.3  100
[I. For the Four City Owned IDs
2/
Provincial Finance Bureau: Special  3.0    5.8    6.7    5.4    5.0    3.2  29.1  11
Fund for Water Resources
City Infrastructure Capital Fund   6.0    9.4   11.3    9.8    9.0    6.3  51.8  20
Local Finance Fund                 8.1   13.9  16.1   12.5   11.5    7.1  69.2  27
Sub-total             17.1  29.1  34.1   27.7  25.5   16.6  150.1  58
Contributions from Beneficiaries:
Baoji                           8.7   12.8   11.5    6.4    8.8    5.8  54.1  21
Xianyang                        1.7   2.5    2.6    1.7   2.4    1.2  12.1   5
Weinan                          9.5   12.0   7.6    6.2    4.4    3.9  43.5  17
Sub-total              19.9  27.3   21.7   14.3   15.6   10.9  109.7  42
TOTAL                 37.0  56.4  55.8   42.0  41.1   27.5  259.8  100
GRAND TOTAL of I and II          136.3  166.3  168.7  143.2  137.9   77.7  830.1  50
World Bank Loan/Credit           134.8  164.5  166.8  150.4  155.7   57.8  830.0  50
TOTAL                271.1  330.8  335.5  293.6  293.6  135.5 1660.1  100
1/ Baojixia, Jinghuiqu, Jiaokou, Taoqupo and Shitouhe IDs
2/ Fenjiashan, Yangmaowan, Luohuiqu and Shibuchuan IDs



Page 59
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A:   PROCUREMENT
1.    Procurement agencies    The Water Conservancy Bureau (WCB) of Shaanxi province,
through its PPMO, will have overall responsibility for the technical execution of the project. The
PPMO will retain a National Tendering Corporation to manage bidding for equipment procured
through ICB. The WCB/PPMO will: (a) manage the design and construction of several major works
such as new dams and the raising of existing dams carried out under ICB and NCB contracts; (b)
cooperate with the National Tendering Corporation for the procurement under ICB of pumps,
motors and other equipment; and (c) oversee the preparation, advertising, bidding and bid
evaluation of the smaller NCB contracts for works carried out by the IDs. The IDs will: (a) manage
the design and construction of the main conveyance systems and pumping stations; (b) install the
pump station equipment referred to above; and (c) provide technical assistance and supervision for
minor irrigation works and land leveling below the branch canals carried out by the counties,
townships and villages.
2.    Procurement methods     The Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and
Credits published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999 will be applied to all Bank-financed procurement of goods and works. The
Model Documents developed by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank will be adopted for all
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for civil works
and goods, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Form will be used. Procurement of civil works
through ICB and through NCB with estimated values exceeding US$0.6 million will be managed by
the PPMO. Works procured through NCB with estimated values of US$0.6 million and less will be
managed by the Irrigation District PMO (IDPMO). Small works contracts, procured through small
works procedures and force account, will by managed by City and County level Water Conservancy
Bureaus with guidance from the IDs. Project component costs and procurement arrangements are
shown in Table A. Thresholds for procurement methods and for prior review are shown in Table B.
Detailed procurement schedules for all major and minor works and goods are provided in the PIP
and available in the project file.
3.    Civil works  Works estimated to cost US$10.0 million equivalent or more per contract
will be procured under ICB procedures. Works costing less than US$10 million but not less than
US$0.2 million equivalent per contract ( up to an aggregate of $92.5 million) may be procured
under NCB procedures. Works costing less than $0.2 million equivalent per contract ( up to an
aggregate of US$7.1 million) may be procured under small works procedures. Minor irrigation and
on farm development works costing less than US$0.1 million equivalent per assignment ( up to an
aggregate of US$39.2 million) may, with prior Bank agreement be procured under force account
using community participation. Specifically, the contract for the raising the Linjiacun weir
(US$12.0 million) will be procured through ICB procedures following pre-qualification of bidders.
The Luohuiqu weir (US$8.2 million) and other remedial works at existing dams (US$ 27.5 million)
will be procured through NCB in about 23 packages ranging in value from US$0.5 million to
US$5.0 million and in 16 packages (US$0.7 million) through Small Works (SW) bidding
procedures, including lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. Works for major



Page 60
canals, drainage system improvements and associated works such as towers for telecom, 0 & M
buildings, pumphouses and access roads (US$64.1 million) are widely dispersed over nine IDs, that
cover an area measuring over 200 km from west to east. These works will be carried out over short
periods each year when the canals are not in use, and will be procured through NCB (US$56.9
million) in about 118 contract packages ranging from US$0.2 million to US$2.0 million and in 91
bids (US$6.4 million) through SW procedures. The construction of minor irrigation improvement
works (US$29.8 million) and land leveling works (US$9.4 million) will be procured through force
account which will be subject to prior approval by the Bank. The minor irrigation works will
consist of the repair and lining of lateral and sub-lateral canals. These works will be carried out
with community participation arranged by the County Water Conservancy Bureaus under the
direction of the management stations of the Irrigation Districts. Each assignment will not exceed
US$100,000 equivalent. The land leveling works will be carried out with community participation,
primarily farners working on their own land, under the direction of the operators of lateral canals
with technical guidance and control from the county and township water conservancy bureaus.
4.    Goods       Contracts for pumps and valves (ICB-1: US$2.1 million), motors and
transformers (ICB-2: US$2.4 million), hoists and overhead cranes (ICB-3: US$0.4 million),
electrical equipment and panels (ICB-4: US$2.9 million) will be procured through four ICB
packages. ICB bids will also be invited for communications equipment (ICB-5: US$1.9 million) and
vehicles (ICB-6: US$0.9 million). A few goods, with values ranging between US$250,000 and
US$100,000, will be procured through NCB procedures (US$0.2 million). A margin of preference
of 15% of the CIF price of imported goods or actual customs duties, whichever is lower, will be
applied to domestically manufactured goods procured through ICB. Miscellaneous other equipment
(US$0.3 million) in packages costing less than US$100,000 will be purchased through international
(US$0.2 million) and other equipment in packages costing less than US$50,000 may be purchased
through national shopping (US$0.1 million). For international shopping three price quotations will
be obtained from qualified suppliers in at least two different countries. Two vehicles and some
office furniture and equipment, suitable for retro-active financing, will be procured through national
shopping.
5.    Procurement of services    The employment of international and national consultants
(US$ 0.5 million) would be in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997, revised in September
1997 and January 1999. For consultant services the standard request for proposals, dated July 1997
and revised in April 1998, will be used. All consulting contracts are expected to cost less than
US$100,000 and will use the "Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications" or "CQ" procedures.
"Single Source Selection" procedures will be used for project management and dam safety
consultant contracts not costing less than $50,000 each after prior approval from the Bank.
Individual consultants will be procured under the procedures in the guidelines for employment of
individuals. All consulting assignments with values over US$200,000 will be advertised in
Development Business. The organization and implementation of training and study tours programs
(US$1.3 million) would be 100 percent financed by the Bank loan based on programs subject to
prior review by the Bank.
6.    Other items not financed by the Bank    Land acquisition and resettlement cost (US$4.8
million), interest during construction (US$21.4 million), survey, design and construction
supervision (US$4.4 million), project management fees (US$1.5 million), and some small works



Page 61
including office buildings (US$3.5 million), totaling US$35.6 million would be fully funded by
Shaanxi. Groups to undertake survey, design and construction supervision will be selected from a
short-list of qualified firms based on appropriate terms of references.
7.    Prior review    All ICB contracts for works (US$10.0 million or more) and goods
(US$250,000 or more) would be subject to: (i) prior review; and (ii) a "no objection letter" from the
Bank. For NCB procurement of civil works costing US$200,000 or more bid documents, bid
evaluation and award recommendation reports for the first bid in each ID will be subject to prior
review by the Bank. Thereafter, only bids exceeding US$1.5 million will be subject to prior review.
This will cover 17 contracts representing about 38 percent or US$34.8 million of the NCB contract
value of US$ 92.5 million. Contracts for consultant services in excess of US$50,000 for individual
consultants (US$0.1 million) and US$100,000 for firms will be subject to prior review. Overseas
and domestic training and study tours (US$1.3 million) will be reimbursed based on programs
agreed with the Bank. All other contracts will be subject to ex-post review by Bank supervision
missions (see Table B).
B:   DISBURSEMENT
8.    Disbursement for civil works and buildings will be 67 percent made against eligible
payments to contractors for works executed and for authorized mobilization advances.
Disbursement for goods and equipment, including vehicles, will be at 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for direct imports, 100 percent of the ex-factory costs for locally manufactured items,
and 75 percent of expenditures for other items procured locally. Loan disbursement for minor
irrigation works and land leveling will be 30% of eligible expenditures. If these activities are
carried out under force account with community participation, disbursements will be 30 percent
against unit rates based on statement of works completed for each minor system. For this purpose
unit rates for specific items have been confirmed with the Borrower, and will be periodically
updated. The unit rates are for the construction of a kilometer of earthwork, lining and structures for
laterals and sub-laterals and for a hectare of land leveling. The rates (details are provided in the PIP)
will apply to all minor works in each ID under the project. Random checking of these specific items
will be easy to make for PPMO staff and World Bank supervision missions. Disbursement for
research, training, study tours and consultant services will be 100% of eligible expenditures.
Expenditures for works under contracts costing less than US$1.5 million equivalent ( excluding the
1st NCB contract procured in each ID), goods under contracts costing less than US$0.2 million
equivalent, services provided by firms under contracts costing less than US$0.1 million equivalent,
services less than US$50,000 equivalent, and training, study tours, and research regardless of cost
will be disbursed against Statement of Expenditures (SOE). See Table C: Allocation of Loan and
Credit Proceeds. The estimated disbursement schedule for the Bank Loan/Credit is given in Table
D.
9.    To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars, would be opened at a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, with an initial deposit of US$4.0 million up to maximum
of US$7.0 million, which is approximately equivalent to the Bank's disbursement for four months
of project implementation. Applications for replenishment for the SA would be submitted monthly
or when the account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. The
Provincial Bureau of Finance will make payments within 2 weeks after receipt and review of
withdrawal applications. The lower level BOF will pass on the funds promptly, and no later than 2



Page 62
weeks after the funds were received.
10.   Retro-active financing  To avoid delays in the startup of the project, retro-active Bank
financing of SDR 4.0 million (US$5.5 million equivalent) is recommended to cover expenditures
incurred between September 1, 1998 and the date of signing of the Loan/Credit Agreement. The
agreed activities eligible for retro-active financing are detailed in the PIP.



Page 63
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method
TCB        NCB        Other/a       NBF        Total
Civil Works and Buildings                                  12.0        92.5         7.1         3.5       115.1
(8.1)     (62.0)        (4.7)       (0.0)      (74.8)
New storage facilities                                 12.0        18.1           -           -        30.2
(8.1)     (12.1)                               (20.2)
Repair of storage and diversion facilities                -        17.5         0.7           -        18.2
(11.7)       (0.5)                  (12.2)
Canal and Drainage System                                 -        51.1         2.7           -        53.8
(34.2)       (1.8)                  (36.0)
Access roads improvement                                  -           -         0.5           -         0.5
(0.4)                   (0.4)
O&M buildings, telecommunication                          -           -         2.8           -         2.8
(1.9)                   (1.9)
Installation and rehabilitation of pump houses            -         5.8         0.3         2.1         8.2
(3.9)       (0.2)       (0.0)       (4.1)
Project offices                                           -           -           -         1.4         1.4
(0.0)      (0.0)
Goods/Equipment                                            10.4         0.2         0.3           -        10.9
(10.4)       (0.2)       (0.2)                  (10.9)
Pumps, motors, etc.                                     7.6         0.2         0.1           -         8.0
(7.6)       (0.2)       (0.1)                   (8.0)
Vehicles                                                0.9           -           -           -         0.9
(0.9)                   (0.0)                   (0.9)
Telecommunication, water management                     1.9           -           -           -          1.9
(1.9)                   (0.0)                   (1.9)
Computer, and other office equipment                      -           -         0.2           -         0.2
(0.1)                   (0.1)
Improvement/Expansion of Minor Distribution                               -        39.2           -        39.2
(11.8)                  (11.8)
Training, Study Tours & Technical Assist.                     -           -         1.8           -         1.8
(1.8)                   (1.8)
Front-end Fee (1% of IBRD loan)                               -           -         0.8           -         0.8
(0.8)                   (0.8)
Other /b                                                      -           -           -        32.1        32.1
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                                                  22.4        92.8        49.2        35.6       200.0
(18.5)      (62.2)      (19.3)       (0.0)     (100.0)
/a  Include procurement of small works (SW) through price quotations, shopping (national, international), community
participation and force account for minor distribution system and on-farm works and consultant services, training and
study tours.
/b  Includes management costs, and IDC.
Note: NBF = Not Bank-Financed. Bank disbursement in parentheses.



Page 64
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure    Contract Value   Procurement           Contracts          Contract Values
Category        (Threshold)         Method        Subject to Prior          (US$M)
(US$ x 1,000)                         Review
(US$ x 1,000)
Total    Subject to
Value       Prior
Review
Value   %
1. Civil Works
(a) Major Works      >10,000             ICB               All           12.0      12.0   100
>200 to< 10,000       NCB             All>1,500        92.5     34.8    38
<200              SW               None           7.1        -      -
NBF                              3.5
Total   115.1    46.8    41
(b) Minor              <100              FA               None           39.2       -
Works
Total   39.2       -       -
2. Goods               >250              ICB               All           10.4      10.4   100
>100 to <250         NCB               None           0.2       -       -
>50 to <100          ISP              None            0.2
<50              NSP              None            0.1       -       -
Total   10.9      10.4    95
(a) Technical         >100             QCBS                All
assistance            <100              CQ               None            0.2       -       -
Individual       Individual           >50            0.1      0.1    100
<50          Single Source        None            0.2       -       -
(b) Training          >100                                 All           1.3       1.3    100
and study tours                                                 Total    1.8       1.4    78
Notes:
All contracts not subject to Bank prior review would be subject to Bank post review
All contracts for individual consultants and all single source contracts in excess of $50,000 would be subject to prior
Bank review.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
SW:  Procedures for Small Works (Quotations)
FA:  Force Account and Comrnunity Participation
ISP:  International Shopping Procedures requiring at least three price quotations
NSP: National Shopping Procedures requiring at least three price quotations
QCBS: Quality and Cost Based Selection
CQ:   Consultants' Qualifications
NBF:  Not Bank Financed
NCB civil works subject to prior review by the Bank:
1. all contracts > $1,500,000
2. first NCB bid document in each ID irrespective of value



Page 65
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds
Amount of the    Amount of the
Category                Credit Allocated    Loan Allocated   % of Expenditure to be
Financed
(Expressed in million (Expressed in million
SDR Equivalent)      US$)
1. Works for Improvement       10.2              60.9      67%
and Expansion of Water
Source, Major
Distribution System and
O&M
2. Works for Minor              0.7              10.8       30%
Distribution System and
On-farm Development
3. Goods                        3.7              5.8        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local expenditure
(ex-     factory cost)
and
75% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
4. Research, Training,          0.1              1.7        100%
Study Tours and
Consultants' Services
5. Fee                                           0.8        Amount due under Section
2.04 of the Loan
Agreement
Total                        14.7              80.0



Page 66
Annex 6, Table D: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IBRD/IDA                        Disbursement                Disbursement Profile
Fiscal Year/          Semester  Cumulative  Cumulative    Year/   Cumulative
Semester                   ($ Million)           (%)      Semester       (%)
2000                                                                   Year 1
First (Jul-Dec 1999)           8.0         8.0           8         First         0
Second (Jan-Jun. 2000)        8.2         16.2 a/       10        Second         5
2001                                                                   Year 2
First (Jul-Dec 2000)           9.8         26.0         26         First        30
Second (Jan-Jun. 2001)        10.0         36.0         36        Second        38
2002                                                                   Year 3
First (Jul-Dec 2001)          10.0         46.0         46         First        46
Second (Jan-Jun. 2002)        9.5          55.5         55        Second        54
2003                                                                   Year 4
First (Jul-Dec 2002)           9.0         64.5         65         First        66
Second (Jan-Jun. 2003)        8.5          73.0         73        Second        74
2004                                                                   Year 5
First (Jul-Dec 2003)           9.5         82.5         82         First        82
Second (Jan-Jun. 2004)         8.7         91.2         91        Second        90
2005                                                                   Year 6
First (Jul-Dec 2004)           5.0         96.2         96         First        94
Second (Jan-Jun 2005)          3.8         100.0        100        Second        100
a/ Including retroactive financing of US$5.5 million to cover expenditure incurred between
September 1, 1998 and Loan/Credit signing and US$0.8 million for the front-end fee.
Completion Date: December 31, 2004
Closing Date:   June 30, 2005



Page 67
Annex 7
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.    This Annex describes the land acquisition and resettlement requirements under
Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project (GIIP). A detailed Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) has been prepared to facilitate the mitigation of the adverse impacts of the raising of
the Linjiacun weir to create additional storage. The raising of the existing weir at Linjiacun
requires 1,500 mu of land and 841 people will be affected, of which 684 need to be relocated
due to the inundation of the reservoir. In addition, 1,435 mu of land will be expropriated for
improvement and expansion of irrigation systems in Baojixia and Luohuiqu Irrigation
Districts without requiring relocation of the affected people. Following are the details of the
plan for rehabilitation. The total base cost of land acquisition and resettlement under GIIP is
Y36 million.
2.    General     The Linjiacun Headwork is located to the west of Baoji City in the far
western part of the Baoijixia Irrigation District. The headwork arrangements, including the
Lunjiacun weir, were completed in 1958 to provide irrigation water to 14 counties under the
jurisdiction of the cities of Xian, Xianyang and Baoji. The weir is 27 meters high and 138
meters long. The weir will be heightened by 21 meters to increase the storage capacity and
water use efficiency. This causes the inundation of farmland and buildings, including houses.
3.    Objective and principle of resettlement  The main objective of land acquisition
and resettlement compensation is to ensure that the standards of living and income levels of
all project affected persons (PAPs) will not be affected, or affected to a minimal extent. To
mitigate the adverse impacts the Resettlement Office of Baoji County has prepared a
comprehensive strategy for implementing land acquisition and resettlement requirements.
The strategy is based on the principle of "land for land" and encouragement of diversified
economic activities in the rural affected areas.
4.    Census & socio-economic survey  The reservoir area comprises 11 communities or
groups belonging to 7 villages and 4 townships in Baoji County. Major crops grown are
maize and wheat. Harvest is once a year in the hilly area and twice a year in the plain where
irrigation is available. The average yield of grain in 1997 was 185 kg per mu. The
population largely consists all small farmers, with an average net income of Yuan 865 per
capita in 1997.
5.    Adverse project impact    To allow the enlargement of the reservoir by raising
the height of the existing weir 1,048 mu of land need to be acquired permanently. Of the 841
PAPs, 684 will have to move, while 157 will remain where they are. Their village will be
protected by a dike to be constructed under the project.The land situation is shown in Table 1.



Page 68
Annex 7, Table 1: Land Situation
Village Group    Total      Total       Land        Land      Land Holding     Land      Residence
Population  Cultivated  Holding per Acquisition per Capita after Adjustment   Model
Land       Capita                    Land       per Capita
Redistribution
(in mu.)
1. Fangtang 2nd       194        380         1.96        7.50           1.92       -0.04 move up
group     _
2. Fangtang 3rd       347        574         1.65      148.15           1.63       -0.02 190 upward
group
3. Fangtang 4th group                                   66.87                            127 out
4. Fangtang 5th       111        413         3.72       94.80           2.87        -0.85 move-up
group
5. Lijiahe Cun        218        523         2.40      157.40           4.11        1.71 86 upward &
129 out
6. Chengli 1st        175        291         1.66       77.74           1.66        0.00 protected by
group
7. Chengli 3rd        141        341         2.42       60.52           1.99       -0.43 a levee
group
8. Zuluo Cun          498       2034         4.08      179.60           3.72        -0.36 move-up
9. Liuchuang          991       3205         3.23      136.65           3.10       -0.14 move up
Cun
10. Hujiashan         536       1394         2.60       77.01           2.46       -0.14 move up
11. Lijialeng  I_        I          I _                 41.00
Total              3211       9155         2.85     1047.24           2.15       -0.70
6.    In addition to the loss of cultivated land, 88 mu of house plots and 310 mu of tree
gardens will be inundated. Moreover, affected assets include 13,527 m2 of houses, 7,171 m2
of auxiliary facilities, 28,123 scattered trees, 28 pumping stations, 8 tubewells, 9.4 km of
rural roads, 6.3 km of power transmission lines and 2.8 km of telecommunication lines.
7.     Legal framework for land acquisition and resettlement The   Government   of
China has issued a number of laws, regulations and guidelines related to resettlement
planning and implementation. The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) has been prepared in
accordance with the stipulations of the these laws, regulations and guidelines. The main laws
and regulations are the following:
* Land management law of the People's Republic of China (1988);
* Regulations on land acquisition and resettlement compensation for large and
mid-size water and hydropower projects (1991);
* Design specifications on treatrnent of reservoir inundation for water Resources
and hydroelectric power projects;



Page 69
* Details on inventory of reservoir assets for water resources and hydroelectric
Power Projects.
8.    Rehabilitation plan Investigations and consultations with the project affected
people concluded that 157 PAP in the Chengli 1st and 3rd groups do not need to be relocated.
A 2 m high and 1,000 m long dike will be built to protect them. 428 PAP will move to
higher elevations within the same village group locations and 256 PAP in Fangtang 3rd and
4th groups as well as in Lijiahe will be moved to the Zhouyuan Township outside of the
reservoir area (see the last column of Table 1). New houses will be built in the relocation
areas, based on agreed standards for village layout and house design. The provision of
infrastructure facilities for water and electricity supplies, roads, telecommunications etc. has
been included in the plan. Facilities for public services, such as schools, clinics, shops, T.V.
station, homes for retired people are also be provided and included in the RAP.
9.    For agricultural development, 60 mu of marginal land will be developed, 150 mu of
hilly land will be reclaimed and developed into terraces, 120 mu of land will be leveled, 210
mu of dry land will be prepared for irrigation and 60 mu of irrigated land will be improved.
Training will focus on agricultural extension programs to improve animal husbandry,
planting of orchards, strawberry and vegetables cultivation, development of fish-cages, etc.
With land development and changes in cropping pattern agricultural production will
increased in the future.
10.   Policy incentives    The preferential resettlement policy consists of:  (i) tax
exemption on agricultural products from land lost; (ii) no taxes to be levied on house plots;
(iii) priority to PAPs for the construction of civil works, e.g. roads, levees and schools; (iv)
incentives of Yual,500/person to those who move out of the reservoir area early; and (v)
provision of low-interests loans to PAPs.
11.   Costs and budget   Compensation for land acquisition will be based on average
production values over three years: 1995-1997. A production value multiplier of 8 is used
for land acquisition and resettlement compensation of cultivated land. The resettlement cost
of Yuan 24.5 million has been included in the project cost. The break-down of the
resettlement cost and the annual expenditure plan are shown in Tables 2 and 3.



Page 70
Annex 7, Table 2: Resettlement Cost Estimate
Item                Unit     Unit Cost (Y)   Quantity  Value (Y1,000)
1. Cultivated land
-ingated land                    mu               8791.20       422           3,707
-dry slope land                  mu               4634.08       218           1,008
-dry plain land                  mu               6103.24       140            857
-river plain                     mu               5447.64       269           1,464
Sub-total                        mu                             1048          7,036
2. Other land
-house plot                      mu               3814.53        88            334
-tree gardens                    mu                             310           2,714
Sub-total                                                       398           3,048
3. Houses
-brick & concrete house         sq.m                 280       1371            384
-brick & timber house           sq.m                  180      1449            261
-timber & earthen house         sq.m                  150     10707           1,606
4. Other structures              sq.m                          7,171            291
Sub-total                                                     20,697          2,542
5. Trees                                                                        384
6. Other infrastructures                                                        148
7. Specific items                                                             6,439
8. Moving subsidies                                                             950
9. Clean res. base                                                               40
Base Cost                                                          20,331
10. Administrative. fee                 3% of base-cost                         618
11. Training                            2% of base-cost                         412
12. Survey & design                     2% of base-cost                         412
13. M& E                                1.8% of base-cost                       362
14. Contingencies                       10% of base-cost                        206
TOTAL                                         l                   24,448



Page 71
Annex 7, Table 3: Annual Investment Plan
unit: Yuan 1,000
Items                 1998      1999     2000    2001  Sub-Total
1. Land acquisition and          2,560    3,800    2,600    1,123        10,083
resettlement
2. Household compensation          800    2,440       409     375         4,024
3. Specific items                  700    2,800    2,289      650         6,439
3. Cleaning of reservoir base                          40                    40
4. Administration fee              260      590       507     473         1,830
5. Contingencies                            500       800     733         2,033
Total                 4,320   10,130    6,644    3,355        24,448
12.   Organizational arrangements   The Provincial Resettlement Office (PRO) oversees the
Resettlement Office (RO) of Baoji County, which has the main responsibility for resettlement
implementation. For general resettlement matters the RO of Baoji County works closely with the
RO of the Baojixia Irrigation District office. The RO of Baoji County will oversee four Township
ROs responsible for resettlement implementation in the reservoir area and one Township RO for
resettlement implementation to relocation areas in Zhouyuan Town. At the grass-root level,
resettlement implementation is guided by Village Committees and Village leaders.
13.   Consultation and participation   A  survey was carried out to find out more about the
PAPs, in particular their attitude towards the project and resettlement requirements. The outcome
of the survey was positive. Seven meetings were held with various groups of people and interviews
of each affected household were undertaken to discuss major issues. Topics included the selection
of the relocation areas, compensation rates and rehabilitation plans. As a result Resettlement
Associations with representatives from the affected farmers will be set up in each affected village.
14.   Grievances and appeals process   Since the entire resettlement and rehabilitation
program is carried out with active participation of the PAPs, no major grievance issues are
expected to come up. However, detailed procedures to address grievances have been established
for the project. This allows the PAPs to put forward any complaint related to land acquisition and
resettlement. The aim is to respond to possible complaints of the PAPs timely, effectively and
transparently. The process is designed to be simple, accessible, transparent and fair.
15.  Implementation schedule  It will take 3.5 years to complete the entire land acquisition
and resettlement process under the project. The preparatory stage is planned from September to
December 1998; the stage for construction of the relocation areas from October 1998 to October
2001; and production rehabilitation stage will end in May 2002.
16.   Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) Monitoring of the resettlement process will be
conducted by the Provincial Resettlement Offices through the RO of Baoji County. A semi-annual
progress report would be submitted to the Provincial PMO and the World Bank by July 1 and



Page 72
December 31 of each year. An external and independent group, The National Research Center for
Resettlement (NRCR), will review progress with RAP implementation twice a year in 1999 and
2000 and once a year in 2001 and 2002. Their progress reports will be furnished to the Provincial
PMO and the World Bank at the same time.
17.   Other resettlement components   Under the Baojixia Irrigation District another 857 mu
of cultivated land on relatively steep slopes will be inundated due to raising the Ganhe Dam by 4
meters to increase storage. In Luohuiqu Irrigation Area, the height of the weir will be increased by
2 meters to allow more water to be stored in the dry season and the main canal will be improved.
These works require 578 mu of land in 6 villages of 2 townships in Dali and Pucheng Counties.
No structures and assets will be affected and no people need to relocate from the affected areas.
The land acquisition requirement is summarized in Table 4.
18.   Some villages will loose considerable areas of cultivated land. For those PAPs irrigation
facilities will be provided to enable higher crop yields. It has been agreed to provide four pumping
stations for the Luohuiqu PAPs and another four for the Ganhe reservoir PAPs. In addition, a 3 m
high and 500 m long dike will be built to protect 300 mu of farmland in Fanjiahe Village.
Agricultural preferential policies will be applied and priority will be given to recruit PAPs for the
implementation of project works.
Annex 7, Table 4: Land Acquisition for Ganhe & Luohuiqu Components
Name of Project              Land Acquisition (mu)       Compensation Rates (Y)
Permanent |Temporary Sub-total Permanent ITemporary iSub-total
1. Baojixia Irrigation District
Heightening of Ganhe Headwork      857         0       857      7,640        0 6,547,500
Improvement of South Main Canal      0        102      102         0 1,000 x 3   306,000
yrs
Linjiacun Headwork Site              0         95       95         0 1,000 x 3   285,000
yrs
2. Luohuiqu Irrigation Disrtrict
Heightening of Ganhe Headwork      486         0       486                      3,256,000
Improvement of South Main Canal     92        127      219                      1,416,000
Total                  1,435       324     1,759     7,640         0 11,810,500



Page 73
Annex 8
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                 Planned               Actual
(excluding grant funding)         (At final PCD stage)
LENP                        150,000              127,000
LENA                        120,000               50,000
LENN                        65,000                25,000
SPN                        360,000
B. Project Schedule                        Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)   11
First Bank mission (identification)       03/15/1998           03/18/1998
Appraisal mission departure              02/01/1999            01/08/1999
Negotiations                             04/01/1999            03/29/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness            09/01/1999            __/__/1999
Prepared by:   Water Conservancy Bureau of the Government of Shaanxi Province
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant from Japan, Australian Trust Fund
Task team members who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Specialty
Bert L. Kramer                          Task Manager
Cecilia Belita                         Team Assistant
Xiaolan Wang                    Team Assistant/Financial Analyst
Johannes Ter Vrugt                         Agriculturist
Zou Youlan                             Resettlement
Josef Ernstberger                          Economist
William T. Smith                     Engineering/Procurement
Ben Hallam                              Engineering
Tony Shen                          Financial Management
Nicolette DeWitt/Philip Daltrop                   Lawyers
Keith Caney                        Mechanical Engineering
Jiang Ping                                O&M
Li Yan Wu                              Environment



Page 74
Annex 9: Documents in the Project File (including electronic files)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project (GIIP): Project Implementation Plan, March 1999.
Annex 1:    Management Reform Program Details
Annex 2:    Main Characteristics of Dams
Annex 3:    Project Costs Estimates
Annex 4:    Financing Plan
Annex 5:    Financial Management System
Annex 6:    Procurement Arrangements
Annex 7:    Contract Packages for Works and Goods
Annex 8:    Implementation Schedules for Works and Goods
Annex 9:    Equipment, Training & Study Tours, Disbursement Schedule
Annex 10:    Resettlement Framework Guidelines
Annex 11:    Key perfonnance Indicators
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1 .    Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire and Annexes dated January 26, 1999
2.    Pre-appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire and Annexes dated September 29, 1998
3.    Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire and Annexes dated July 12, 1998
C. Other
1.    Feasibility Study Report; On the rehabilitation Project of 9 Major Irrigation Districts in
Guanzhong Plain, Shaanxi Province; Shaanxi Investigation, Design and Research Institue of Water
Conservancy and Hydro-electric Power; Xian, China, October 1997.
2.    Supplementary Feasibility Study Reports; The Project of Guanzhong Irrigation District of
Shaanxi Province Using World Bank Loans; Shaanxi Investigation, Design and Research Institue
of Water Conservancy and Hydro-electric Power; March 1998, Xian.
3.    Shaanxi Guanzhong Irrigation District Upgrading Project: Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
dated September 1998.
4.    Environmental Impact Assessment for Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project (GIIP)
dated December 1998.
5.    Report of the Dam Safety Review Panel for Project Dams dated July 1998.
6.    Irrigation System Management Reform Report dated March 1998.
7.    Project Implementation Plan for GIIP and Annexes dated November 1998
8.    Miscellaneous project preparation documents prepared during 1998 by Government of
Shaanxi with Assistance from the Shaanxi Investigation, Design and Research Institute of Water
Conservancy and Hydro-electric Power.



Page 75
Annex 10
Statement of Loans and Credits
A. Status of Bank Group Operations in China
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Apr-99
Di fference Between
expected
Or iqirial  AioOiJit iri US$ Mi l lioriS         and actual
t) i  ':a   I                                                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   i   rb rirl s u m ui lta  d/
i'ruJJeCt. lii   Yij.ir         Li'itfijWrig                Ilil<i,
IUI)        I DA    Ct.I.culti.ors  thid1sb1 rsed    Oriq   iFrm Reyv'd
Number of Closed Projects: 106
Active Projects
CN-PE-3653      1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN       CONTAINER TRANSPORT                   71.00        0.00        0.00             71.00       10.55        0.00
CN-PE-41890    1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        LIAONING URB TRANSP                  150.00        0.00        0.00            150.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-49665    1999   PRC                             ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                   90.00       30.00        0.00            119.03        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-50036    1999   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN       ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                  200.00        0.00        0.00            200.00        7.45        0.00
CN-PE-51856    1999   MINISTRY OF FINANCE             ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                    27.40        5.61        0.00             32.96        1.36        0.00
CN-PE-63123    1999   PRC                              YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                  40.00       40.00        0.00             79.21        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-3539      1998   PRC                             SUST COAST RES DEV                   100.00        0.00        0.00             96.00        -.25        0.00
CN-PE-3566      1998                                   BASIC HEALTH                           0.00       85.00        0.00             81.99         .05        0.00
CN-PE-35698    1998   PRC                              HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                 300.00        0.00        0.00            300.00        9.00        0.00
CN-PE-3591      1998   PRC                             STATE FARMS COMMERCI                 150.00        0.00        0.00            102.59      -32.91        0.00
CN-PE-3606      1998   GOC                             ENERGY CONSERVATION                   63.00        0.00        0.00             63.00        2.87        0.00
CN-PE-3614      1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN       GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                 200.00        0.00        0.00            192.00        5.61        0.00
CN-PE-3619      1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE             2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                  123.00       0.00        0.00            123.00       18.50        0.00
CN-PE-36414    1998   CHINA                            GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                    72.00       20.00        0.00             88.83       -1.20        0.00
CN-PE-36949    1998   PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA        NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                      250.00        0.00        0.00            242.00       12.00        0.00
CN-PE-40185    1998   PRC                              SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                   95.00       0.00        0.00             92.00       21.75        0.00
CN-PE-45788    1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                   230.00        0.00        0.00            230.00       39.70        0.00
CN-PE-46563    1998   PRC                              TARIM BASIN II                         90.00      60.00        0.00            140.76        5.11        0.00
CN-PE-46952    1998   PRC                              FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                 100.00      100.00        0.00            200.81        8.50       17.00
CN-PE-49700    1998   PRC                              IAIL-2                               300.00        0.00        0.00            280.00        3.30        0.00
CN-PE-51736    1998   GOC                              E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                 250.00        0.00        0.00            250.00       92.38        0.00
CN-PE-56491    1998   PRC                              HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                       0.00       28.40        0.00             10.66       -9.81        0.00
CN-PE-34081    1997   PRC                              XIAOIANGDI MULTI. II                 430.00        0.00        0.00            331.51       89.27        0.00
CN-PE-3590      1997   PRC                             QINHA MTS. LPOVIY REI)                30:.0o     150.0()       0.00            148.35       23.88        0.00
CN-PE-3635      1997   PRC                             VOc. 14D. RE1()oRM PRlO).l            1(.()(      20.00        0.00             15.19        1.30        0.00
CN-PE-3637      199/   PRC                             NATI, RtlIR WATIER I II I10.(                     '/(.O()      (.00             62.10       10.38        0.00
CN-PE-36405    1997   PRC                              WAN.JIAZIIAI WATER TilA              400.00        0.(0        0.0()           320.09        5.08        0.00
CN-PE-3643      1997   PRC                             XINJIANG IIIGIIWAYS 11               300.00        0.00        0.00            230.72       57.72        0.00
CN-PE-3650      1997   GOC                             TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                 400.00        0.00        0.00            394.61      137.17        0.00
CN-PE-3654      1997   PRC                             HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                  400.00       0.00        0.00            336.64       86.62        0.00
CN-PE-36952    1997   PRC                              BASIC ED. IV                            0.00      85.00        0.00             41.37      -26.19        0.00
CN-PE-38988    1997   PRC                              HEILONGJIANG ADP                      120.00       0.00        0.00             93.02        8.38        0.00
CN-PE-44485    1997                                    SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                  400.00        0.00        0.00            400.00       53.05        0.00
CN-PE-34618    1996   PRC                              LABOR MARKET DEV.                      10.00      20.00        0.00             24.00       22.16        0.00
CN-PE-3507      1996   GOC                             ERTAN HYDRO II                        400.00       0.00        0.00             25.23      -22.55        0.00
CN-PE-3563      1996   PRC                             ANIMAL FEED                          150.00        0.00        0.00            138.78      110.45       18.79
CN-PE-3569      1996   P.R.C.                          SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                 260.00        0.00        7.75            110.73       32.49       22.50
CN-PE-3589      1996   PRC                             DISEASE PREVENTION                     0.00      100.00        0.00             69.06       58.11        0.00
CN-PE-3594      1996   PRC                             GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                    60.00      90.00        0.00            125.65       26.19        0.00
CN-PE-3599      1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.               YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                    125.00      25.00        0.00            139.13       18.15        0.00
CN-PE-3602      1996   PRC                             HiNBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                 125.00      25.00        0.00            123.98       76.31        0.00



Page 76
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                             _____          _    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3638      1996   PRC                               SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                     80.00       20.00        0.00              80.15       27.70         0.00
CN-PE-3646      1996   PRC                               CHONGQING IND POL CT                    170.00        0.00       77.99              91.22      102.45         0.00
CN-PE-3648       1996   SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT               SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                    250.00        0.00        0.00             157.96       76.95         0.00
CN-PE-3649      1996   CHINA                             SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                      0.00      100.00        0.00              34.56       -8.05         0.00
CN-PE-3652       1996   PRC                              2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                    210.00        0.00        0.00             139.29       51.28         0.00
CN-PE-36950      1996   PRC                              BASIC ED. POOR III                        0.00      100.00        0.00              11.93      -20.76         0.00
CN-PE-40513      1996   PRC                              2ND HENAN PROV HWY                      210.00        0.00        0.00             175.14       51.14         0.00
CN-PE-3493       1995   PRC                              INLAND WATERWAYS                        420.00        0.00        0.00             275.02       -9.54         0.00
CN-PE-3571      1995   PRC                               RAILWAYS VII                            400.00        0.00       29.00             344.67      201.66        -2.97
CN-PE-3585       1995   GOC                              SHEN4YANG IND. REFORM                   175.00        0.00        0.00              97.54       49.74         0.00
CN-PE-3596       1995   PRC                              YANGTZE BASIN WATER                     100.00      110.00        0.00              35.28      -12.19         0.00
CN-PE-3598      1995                                     LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                    110.00        0.00        0.00              70.21       58.65         0.00
CN-PE-3600      1995   PRC                               TECHNOLOGY DEVEIDOPME                   200.00        0.D0        0.00             125.74       43.65         0.00
CN-PE-3603       1995   PRC                              EN'I'  H(lUJlNG 'oC. Sk                 2I18.(UO    '/S.OU       20.00             199.U4      155.96         7.94
CN-PE-36041     1995   MOF                               FISCAL & TAX REF. &                      50.00       25.00        0.00              66.31       41.61         0.00
CN-PE-3612       1995   PRC                              XINJIANG HIGHWAY 1                      150.00        0.00        0.00              47.85       37.86         0.00
CN-PE-3634       1995   PRC                              MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                      0.00       90.00        0.00              18.42        8.84         0.00
CN-PE-3636      1995   PRC                               BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                      0.00      100.00        0.00               3.39       -1.46         0.00
CN-PE-3639       1995   PRC                              SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                     95.00      200.00        0.00             143.78       32.70         0.00
CN-PE-3642      1995                                     ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                     400.00        0.00        0.00             136.50      -44.02         0.00
CN-PE-3647      1995   PRC                               ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                       0.00       10.00        0.00               5.51       .5.59         0.00
CN-PE-36947     1995   GOC                               SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                    270.00        0.00        0.00             132.50      119.80        80.99
CN-PE-37156     1995   PRC                               IODINE DEF. DISORDER                      7.00       20.00        7.00               1.91       11.57         -.19
CN-PE-3502      1994   MOH                               RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                       0.00      110.00        0.00              29.62       24.07         0.00
CN-PE-3504      1994   PRC                               HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL                    380.00        0.00        0.00              48.65       15.63         0.00
CN-PE-3540      1994   PRC                               LOESS PLATEAU                             0.00      150.00        0.00              27.96      -23.21         0.00
CN-PE-3557      1994   PRC                               FOREST RESOURCE DEV                       0.00      200.00        0.00              40.47       13.01      -32.36
CN-PE-3562      1994   PRC                               XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                 460.00        0.00        0.00                .83          .83        0.00
CN-PE-3586      1994   PRC                               SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                    160.00        0.00        0.00              62.73       57.29         0.00
CN-PE-3593      1994   PRC                               SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                        0.00      205.00        0.00              25.39      -12.80         0.00
CN-PE-3595      1994   PRC                               RED SOILS II DEVELOP                      0.00      150.00        0.00              40.36       16.45         0.00
CN-PE-3609       1994   GOC                              SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION          255.00        0.00        0.00             122.62       71.13         0.00
CN-PE-3622       1994   SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT          SHANGHAI MTP II                         150.00        0.00        0.00               7.36        7.37         0.00
CN-PE-3626      1994   GOC                               FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                     140.00        0.00        0.00              58.63       36.62         8.35
CN-PE-3633      1994   GOVERNMENT OF PRC                 TELECOMMUNICATIONS                      250.00        0.00       30.00              15.27       45.27         0.00
CN-PE-3641      1994   PRC                               YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                    350.00        0.00        0.00              74.09       57.77         0.00
CN-PE-3644      1994   PRC                               XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                   0.00      110.00        0.00              25.56        8.87         0.00
CN-PE-3473      1993   P.R.C.                            ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                      0.00      110.00        0.00              19.79       19.17         0.00
CN-PE-3512      1993   GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C         SHANGHAI PORT REST.                     150.00        0.00       25.74               3.88       29.10         2.86
CN-PE-3518      1993   PRC                               GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT              240.00         0.00        0.00               2.08        -.94         0.00
CN-PE-3533      1993                                     TIANJIN IND. II                         150.00        0.00       40.35              13.59       44.43         7.93
CN-PE-3559      1993   PRC                               AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                      0.00      115.00        0.00              10.41       -1.50         0.00
CN-PE-3561      1993   PRC                               SICHUAN ADP                               0.00      147.00        0.00               5.49        0.00         0.00
CN-PE-3567      1993   PRC                               EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                      0.00      100.00        0.00               9.59        7.98         8.04
CN-PE-3570      1993   PRC                               RAILWAY VI                              420.00        0.00        0.00              94.61       93.62         0.00
CN-PE-3580      1993   PRC                               SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.            250.00        0.00        0.00               4.15        -.31         0.00
CN-PE-3581      1993   PRC                               HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                   120.00        0.00        0.00               9.59        9.60         0.00
CN-PE-3592      1993   PRC                               REF. INST'L.& PREINV                      0.00       50.00        0.00              18.47       18.48         0.00
CH-PE-3597      1993   PRC                               TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                    100.00      100.00        0.00              47.43       43.08         0.00
CN-PE-3616       1993   PRC                              TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                     300.00        0.00        0.00              65.95       49.37         0.00
CN-PE-3623      1993   PRC                               FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                      0.00       60.00        0.00              19.16       16.21         0.00
CN-PE-3627      1993   PRC                               GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                    325.00      165.00        0.00             325.46      322.19        86.20
CN-PE-3632      1993   ROC                               ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                      0.00       50.00        0.00              10.71       11.06          .03
CN-PE-3503      1992                                     ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                   310.00         0.00        0.00               7.79        7.80         0.00
CN-PE-3534      1992   PRC                               ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                   220.00         0.00        0.00              19.91       19.92        12.42
CN-PE-3564      1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY              BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                      45.00       80.00        0.00              25.28       20.02         8.32
CN-PE-3565      1992                                     SHANGHAI METRO TRANS                      0.00       60.00        1.69               1.32        -.08         0.00
CN-PE-3568      1992   R.O.C.                            TIANJIN URB DEV & EN                      0.00      100.00        0.00              18.33       15.24        -2.50
CN-PE-3624      1992   MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH               INFECTIOUS DISEASES                       0.00      129.60        0.00              31.49       26.83        26.79
Total                                                                                        14,868.40   3,995.61        239.52         10,014.74   3,012.63        270.14



Page 77
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Active Projects       Closed Protects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              8,558.59           12,529.50           21,088.09
of which has been repaid:                 73.75            2,515.23            2,588.98
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             18,550.68            9,648.52           28,199.20
Amount sold                     :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :           10,014.74                21.95          10,036.69
a. Intended disbursements to date mnlrus acLual disbursuieriLns to doLLo as Irnjucutud 'L ulv'I4iJ.a
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.



Page 78
China
B. STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 28-Feb-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval               Company            Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1987/92/94               China Bicycles              8.50     3.39      0.00     0.00     8.50     3.39     0.00     0.00
1993                     Shenzhen PCCP               3.76      .99      0.00     0.00     3.76      .99     0.00     0.00
1993                     Yantai Cement              13.51     1.95      0.00     7.22    13.51     1.95     0.00     7.22
1994                     China Walden JV             0.00     6.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     3.53     0.00     0.00
1994                     China Walden Mgt            0.00      .01      0.00     0.00     0.00      .01     0.00     0.00
1994                     Dalian Glass               20.50     2.40      0.00    40.50    20.50     2.40     0.00    40.50
1994                     Dynamic Fund                0.00    12.35      0.00     0.00     0.00    10.08     0.00     0.00
1994/97                  PTP Leshan                 12.20     1.00      0.00    16.00    12.20     1.00     0.00    16.00
1995                     Dupont Suzhou              23.36     4.15      0.00    46.80    23.36     4.15     0.00    46.80
1995                     NewbridgeInv.               0.00     7.19      0.00     0.00     0.00     3.89     0.00     0.00
1995                     Suzhou PVC                 22.00     2.48      0.00    22.20    22.00     2.48     0.00    22.20
1996                     Beijing Hormel              5.00      .50      0.00     5.50     5.00      .50     0.00     5.50
1996                     Jingyang                   40.00     0.00      0.00   100.00    40.00     0.00     0.00   100.00
1996                     Nanjing Kumho              16.00     3.81      0.00    45.50    13.63     3.81     0.00    38.75
1996                     TianjinKumho               11.17     0.00      0.00    33.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                     Weihai Weidongri            4.11     0.00      0.00     0.00     4.11     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                     Ningbo                      0.00     2.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00
1997                     Orient Finance             13.33     0.00      0.00    16.67    13.33     0.00     0.00    16.67
1997                     PTP Hubei                  12.63     0.00      0.00    25.38    10.96     0.00     0.00    22.04
1997                     Rabobank PTPC               2.40     0.00      0.00     2.40     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                     Caltex Ocean               21.00     0.00      0.00    45.00    13.68     0.00     0.00    29.32
1998                     Chengxin-IBCA               0.00      .36      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1998                     Rabobank SHFC               2.75     0.00      0.00     2.75     2.25     0.00     0.00     2.25
1998                     Zhen Jing                   0.00     2.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00
1998                      Pacific Ports              0.00      3.64     0.00     0.00     0.00      3.64     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                       232.22    54.22      0.00   40S.92   206.79    45.92     0.00   347.25
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998                     CHENGDU CHEMICAL            7.40     3.20      0.00     8.60
1997                     CHINEFARGE                 12.80     0.00      0.00    20.00
1998                     EURECA                      0.00     3.00      0.00     0.00
1998                     JIANGSU COLINE              6.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
1998                     LESHAN SCANA                6.10     1.35      0.00     0.00
1997                     NISSAN/DONGFENG            20.20     0.00      0.00    27.00
1998                     ORIENT FIN A INC            3.33     0.00      0.00     0.00
1997                     PTP HOLDINGS                0.00      1.50     0.00     0.00
1998                     SHANGHAI KRUPP             30.00     0.00      0.00    78.44
1997                     SMC                        14.00     0.00      0.00    14.00
1996                     TIANJIN                     9.10     0.00      0.00     9.10
1998                      WIUHAN CIG                 0.00      1.50     0.00     0.00
1998                     WUHAN PORT                  5.00     0.00      0.00     5.00
1998                     XIB                        50.00    20.00      0.00     0.00
1998                     ZHEJIANG COLINE             6.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
1998                     ZHEN JING                   4.50     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commnitmnent:            175.43    30.55      0.00   162.14



Page 79
Annex 11
Country at a glance
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Asia &   middle. 
China    Pacific  Income      Development dlamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                   1.227.2    1,753     2,282                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   860       970     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ bilr/ons)                  1,055.4    1,707     2,818
Average annual growth, 1S9147
Population rl)                                       1.1       1.3       1.2
Labor force (%4)                                      1.1      1.4       1.3     GNP                             Gross
per      -4primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaitable, 1991.1f71                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povetty line)  7
Urban population (' of totatpopulaton)                32        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      70        68        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bi ths)              32        38        36
ChNid malntrition rl of chi/dren under 5)             18        16         *    |          Access to safe water
Access to sale water (YO of population)               90        84        84
Illiteracy (% ofpopu/ation age 15+)                   19        17        19
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoo;age population)  120      118       114              China
Male                                               121       120       11a             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             120       119       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1076    1966      19S6    109?
Economic ratloa
GDP (US$ billions)                         151.6   295.7     818.5    902.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP              27.9    37.7       39.6      38.2                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP           5.0    12.2       2t.0      23.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  28.5    35.2      41.7      4Z7
Gross national savings/GDP                  28.5    35.3      40.4      41.4
Current account balancefGOP                  0.2    -2.5       0.9       3.2     Domesti
Interest payments/GDP                         .-     0.2       0.6       0.6     Dom c                       Investment
Total debttGDP                                ..     S.0       15.8     1683     Savings
Total debt service/exports                    ..     9.8       8.7       8.6
Present value of debt/GOP                                   ..          14.9
Presert value of debtlexports                                    ..     62.7
Indebtedness
197646  198747    199S        1997   1S9842
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 9.3    10.1      9.8       8.8                        China
GNP per capita                      8.3     8.8      8.7       7,4         .              Lower-middle-incorne group
Exports of goods and services      18,8    16.6      5.6      27.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986     1998      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
(% of GDP) 3
Agriculture                                 32.8    27.1       20.4     18.7    30
Industry                                   45.4    44.0       49.5      49.2 22
Manufacturing                             29.5    35.5       37.8      37.3    10
Services                                    21.7    28.9      30.1      32.1      0
Private consumption                         64.0    51.4      46.7      45.7            92   93   94   95  9s   97
General government consumption               7.5    13.4       11.6     11.6              -     GDI     -*-GDP
Imports ofgoods and services                4.5    14.7        18.9     18.5
19764f6  1987-97    1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  6.0     4.4        5.1      3.5   40
Industry                                    11.0    13.8      12.1      10.8    3
Manufacturing                             12.8    13.3       11.6       9.9
Services                                    12.0     8.7       7.9       8.3   20
Private consumption                         9.3      8.8       11.1      6.2      t-
General government consumption              9.4      9.9       9.5       8.2     0
Gross domestic investment                   10.8    11.2       8.2       5.6            92   93   94   ss   9s   97
Imports of goods and services               22.5    12.8       5.9      13.1            -Exports          b ,mports
Gross national product                       9.8     9.9       9.8       8.5
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (In bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing,
the diamond will be incomplete.



Page 80
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%/6)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                         6.55 .47920..
Implicit GDP deflator                          40       4.6       5.9       1.2     1
Government finance
(/% of GOP, includes current grants)
Currentrevenue                                  ..    24.0       11.4      12.0             92    93   94   95   96    9
Current budget balance                          ..      5.6       0.6       0.6             -     GDP deflator -e-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -1.8       -1.5      -1.5
TRADE
1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..  30,942   151,066   182,696     200,000
Food                                          ..   4,448    10,232    11,054
Fuel                                          ..   3,683       5,929    6,987     150,090
Manufactures                                   ..  19,670   129,141   158 767     10I_ia
Total imports (cifl                             ..  42,904   138,838   142,361      100000
Food                                          ..   2,002       7,866    6,308         O
Fuel and energy                                ..    504      6,877    10,306
Capital goods                                  ..  20,415    59,610    57,930             91   9   9    9_
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      66
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      69          ..a..           I             Exports         Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..      96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997     J Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                7,383   29,583   171,700  207,253      4-
Imports ofgoodsand services                  7,125   37,472   154,100   166,755
Resource balance                              258   -7,889    17,600    40,498      2 
Net income                          0      176   -12,370   -15,900~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7  -230    1,0
Net current transfers                           0      255      1,922     4,660                    E    9 I5   91          97
Current account balance                       258   -7,458      7,152    29,258    -2            .
Financing items (net)                           ..   5,410    28,248      6,599       t
Changes in net reserves                         ..   2,048   -35,400   -35,857      .41
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..  16,417   111,728   146,448
Conversion rate (DEC, localWUS$)               1.9      3.5       8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed                 ..  23,719   128,817   146,697
IBRD                                          ..    965       7,616     8,239
IDA                                            .     774      7,579     7,830            G 31,464     A: 523g: 7,830
Total debt service                              ..   2,974    15,756    18,445                                    :2,904
IBRD                                          ..      66        840      858
IDA                                                    8         73       81     1E 20,782
Composition of net resource flows                      1          29         2
Official grants                               ..    155         249      228
Official creditors                            ..   1,165      4,401     4,315
Private creditors                             ..   3,693      6,454     8,134
Foreign direct investment                     ..   1,875    40,180    44,236
Portfolio equity                              ..       0      3,466     8,457                   F: 75,478
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..   1,120      1,900     2,425     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..    607       2,097     2,275      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          ..       0        364      377      C- IMF                        G - Short-temmI
Net flows                                     ..    607       1,734     1,898
Interest payments                             ..      75        549      562
Net transfers                                 ..    532       1,185     1,335
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                         1128/99



MAP SECTION



------                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tBRD    29961~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __   E   9 1
108                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~09'                                                                10
GUANZHONG IRRIGATION 
fl-JO  > ,                                         ~~~IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (GIIP)                                                                                                               V' 
POET SHAANXI PROVINCE                                                                                                                                                           H.-
JPOETIRRIGATION DISTRICTS0s% J
(    '  - "                 *   ~~~~~MANAGEMENT STATIONS                                                                                    I"A2                                              "         t
Is HEADWORKS                          Thenie rrietn  di-Disritson  their                                                                   Bese             \s                  
MAIN CANALS                        sriqton- distric    h-nore                                           3'Y                               <                   "                                                    o-
BRANCH CANALS                                                                                                                                             1--k 980     
V   '7~~~%Aso4   5   '                     6 ~~~ COUNTY HEADQUARTERS                  sh:7,~*.A-IK                                                                                                                                                    /
6    V  #%Jhctnc                                                                                            90,919 ~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPITALS (INSETI )J( *  46~C rc                                           "            
(4<~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -    COUNsTYEBOUNDARILESnri,e                                                             4.002                                                                       Pocng >6                                                           ,
C' -"LI P50  4G.                                 ~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS                                     W92,30                                               /l
TIMERS                                                         K''                                            '
4 RESERVOIRS                                                                        ot.1 
I                                                                                                                                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
5,  ~~~~~0 M.-.-<           11 
KILOMETERS  Teng She,0,,                                                              ...- 'Loosionin                      ,*-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.-  -'-RP.QFKOC
F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Tsp~                                                             ''                                   
.. .... .... . . ~ ~ ~     ~         ~         ~                                     ,'  .         ' '   '. ''                                                                                                   - 5-     .-'0~                               j ROR LA
p.,  . .                                                                                                                 T'    -      *.  5eeS',~~~~'a
64~~~~~~~~~~~~Hnadwer/  Ree5eien0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ... .                                                                  i'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
H ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~~59>V$-~>7"o..5s-.~.- .                                                                               ~- 
/    5.  ,,U,- 4,'s,...-   ~~~~~~~~~~~OUw0R     AJSK,                                                                                                  / 'scans           -          <SETTS-p  .d-d b lh
___                                                              -C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-j                                   ~p
Head ask  ,  Zhoazh                                                                                                                                              .58'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_'  ,W
Tsrpao....                     IA00   5.ess-4
10~~~soo,.eo                                      /0> 
K>  108                                                        1ST'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~404an~~~~~~~~   ~ ~~(U                                                   PT LI//IPsES~~~~~~~~~~~~MA 19



