Report No. PID6104
Project Name                     China: Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project (+
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID Number                CNPE51888
Implementing Agency              Shaanxi Water Conservancy Bureau
Government of Shaanxi Province
Initial PID Date                 February 24, 1998
Tentative Appraisal Date         February 1999
Tentative Board Date             May 1999
Background
1.      Feeding China's vast and growing population is a continuing major
challenge for the Government of China (GOC). Present annual consumption of
grains is about 480 million tons and is expected to grow to about 700 million
tons by the year 2020. This is due not only to the increasing population, but
also to increased per capita consumption of grain, particularly as a result of
increased meat consumption as incomes rise. The Ninth Five Year Plan (1996-
2001), has the objective of increasing domestic grain production from about
450 million tons to 500 million tons. In 1996 production had reached some 480
million tons. Large increases in cotton, oils and other products are also
planned. The proposed Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project would
contribute to meeting the Provincial and Central Governments production
targets.
2.      With 22 percent of the world's population and only 7 percent of the
arable land, it is critical for China to continue to raise agricultural
productivity. In addition, as population grows and development proceeds,
encroachment of urban and industrial areas is continually reducing the land
available for agricultural production. These circumstances require
increasingly intensive use of existing arable lands. To increase cropping
intensities, about half of China's 100 million ha of cultivated land is
currently irrigated. The productivity of irrigated land averages twice that
of rainfed land and is more reliable. Areas under irrigation have more than
doubled, from 20 to 50 million hectares since 1949. Nationally, irrigated
land produces about 70 percent of the total grain output and about 80 percent
of all fruits and vegetables. Almost all of the future increases in grain
production will be on irrigated lands. In some areas, flood control, drainage
and salinity mitigation are also essential for raising agricultural
productivity. Drainage works are essential to allow high productivity in
cultivation of low-lying areas subject to waterlogging and salinization. So
far, drainage works have helped control waterlogging on 19 million hectares
and have reclaimed 4.8 million hectares of saline land.
3.      The Guanzhong Plain in the Wei River Valley where    the nine subprojects
under the proposed project are located, is Shaanxi's main production base for
grain, cotton and oilseeds. It relies on irrigated agriculture to achieve
high, sustainable yields. Although the nine subproject areas are already



equipped with irrigation and drainage systems, land development and
agricultural services, much of the areas needs improvements and some tracts of
land remain to be improved and adequately developed. Most of the existing
irrigation and drainage systems, including water storage and diversion
infrastructure facilities, are several decades old, have suffered from poor
design and construction standards and inadequate operation and maintenance
(O&M) due to lack of resources, and are now in need of rehabilitation.
Consequently, the performance of these systems has gradually deteriorated. In
addition, for some of the systems the secondary and tertiary canal networks
and on-farm works were never fully completed, and in some cases never built at
all. Relatively modest investments in the improvement and completion of these
systems can yield high returns. Critical needs include: (a) irrigation and
drainage infrastructure rehabilitation and completion; (b) use of both ground
and surface water together (conjunctive use); (c) on-farm development works
improvements; and (d) improvements in agricultural services such as high
quality seed development, mechanization and agricultural extension. The
proposed project would include investments in these critical areas.
4.      The key issues for sustainability in the irrigation subsector are how to
pay for irrigation and drainage improvement investments and operation and
maintenance (O&M); how to achieve more efficient, unified management of
irrigation systems; how to increase local participation and "ownership" in
irrigation; and how to design, implement, operate and maintain irrigation
investments to consistently higher technical and institutional standards. In
addition to substantial improvements in irrigation facilities and increases in
agriculture production, there is a need for institutional reforms to correct
these shortcomings. The need for such reforms is strongly supported by the
Ministry of Water Resources (MWR).
Project Objectives
5.      The Government's primary objectives for the water resources and
agriculture sectors in relation to the GIIP project are to: (i) increase
agricultural production, in particular of grains, in the nine project areas;
(ii) increase incomes of project farmers; and (iii) strengthen
organizational, technical and financial aspects of irrigation management, in
particular of operation and maintenance.
6.      The project's objectives are to:    (a) increase agricultural production;
(b)   increase employment opportunities through improving and expanding
irrigation; (c) increase per capita incomes for farmers in the project areas;
(d) gradual shift from cultivating grains to cash crops with higher net
returns; (e) introduce modern technologies leading to improved and more
efficient water use; (f) improve project management, in particular the
organizational, financial and technical aspects of operation and maintenance;
and (g) delegate responsibilities for operation and maintenance to water-
users.
Project Description
7.      The project seeks to improve existing infrastructure facilities in
nine project areas , which provide at present irrigation to about 524,000 ha
in the Guanzhong Plain in the Wei River Valley
of Shaanxi Province. Most of the existing main infrastructure facilities of
the nine project areas were built in the 1950s and 60s. In addition the
- 2-



project seeks to: (i) develop new water resources to extend irrigation to
another 50,000 ha; (ii) improve the agricultural production of 180,000 ha of
currently medium and low-yielding lands, and; (iii) strengthen organizational,
technical and financial aspects of irrigation management, including
arrangements for Operation and Maintenance. The project would be implemented
over a period of five years.
8.      Main components The project's main components are expected to be the
following:
(a)     Rehabilitation of dams and diversion headworks, including remedial
works on key water storage facilities;
(b)     Rehabilitation of about 1200 km of main and lateral irrigation
canals, including 140 (?) km of concrete canal lining and the repair or
replacement of 14 major structures;
(c)     Rehabilitation and extension of 478 km of main and lateral
drains;
(d)     Improvement of 52 pumping stations, including the installation of
286 sets of new electromotors and pumps;
(e)     Completion of land development, on-farm development works and soil
improvement on 180,000 ha of low and medium-yielding farmland and
on about 50,000 ha of currently uncultivated marginal lands;
(f)     Institutional development, including improving integrated water
resources and project management;
(g)     Strengthening operation and maintenance, through developing more
efficient farmers participation, strengthening organizational
arrangements, introducing modern water saving technologies and improve
cost recovery;
(h)     Introducing modern communication systems and Management Information
Systems
(i)     Strengthen the provision of agricultural support services, including
research, extension and training of farmers.
9.      The total project cost is estimated to
be $200 million, with the irrigation and drainage improvement and expansion
components accounting for about 80% and   the agricultural support services and
institutional development components about 15%.   The project would be financed
by a proposed IBRD loan of $80 million (40%) and an IDA Credit of $20 million
(109), and local counterpart funding equivalent to $100 million (50%).
Project Management Structure
10.     A Project Leading Group (PLG), chaired by Shaanxi's    Deputy Governor
responsible for Agriculture, has been established. The PLG include senior
representatives from the Provincial Planning Commission, Financial Bureau,
Audit Bureau, Water Conservancy Bureau, Agricultural Bureau and the
Agricultural Bank. The PLG will oversee project implementation and provide
-3 -



guidance to ensure proper coordination and adequate support from the various
provincial agencies for all aspects of project implementation, including
allocation of funds and land acquisition.
11.     The Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau (PWCB) will be responsible for
project planning, preparation and implementation. It will set up a special
Project Management Office (PMO), with full-time staff transferred from PWCB.
Each of the nine irrigation subproject areas will establish Project Management
Offices for project preparation and implementation. These offices will be
managed by the head of the management bureau or deputy of the prefecture
and/or county located in the irrigation areas. Staff will be assigned to
these project offices from local prefecture and/or county bureaus on a full-
time basis for the duration of the project.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
12.     The Provincial Government of Shaanxi, which has a long and successful
history with irrigation and drainage development in the Wei Valley, is keen
and dedicated to further improve institutional, technical and financial
aspects of water management in the Guanzhong plain. The GIIP would serve as a
vehicle to achieve that. The Bank, considering its past involvement and
experience with large water resources development projects in China, has the
expertise to provide technical and financial support to the Government of
Shaanxi to: (i) modernize existing infrastructure; (ii) promote integrated
water resources management in the Guanzhong plain; (iii) promote efficient use
of limited land and water resources, greater crop diversification and
increased agricultural production; (iv) protect and improve the environment;
and (v) recover operation and maintenance cost and a reasonable portion of the
investment cost through enforcing appropriate levels of water charges.
13.     The Bank, therefore,   is well positioned to assist all levels of
Government in Shaanxi to effectively address organizational, technical and
financial improvements under the GIIP, which would take onto account the
considerable achievements and lessons learnt from the Donglei water resource
component under the recently closed Shaanxi Agricultural Development Project.
Poverty Alleviation
14.     Although the project would not be targeted for poverty alleviation, the
majority of the project beneficiaries would be poor farmers who presently have
low agricultural production on low-yield and non-irrigated lands. Their
incomes would be significantly increased through the implementation of the
project.
Lessons Learned.
15.     Key lessons from previous Bank supported water resources projects are
that: (a) detailed organizational and staff arrangements should be formulated
and agreed before implementation; (b) counterpart funding should be committed
and secured at all levels of government before implementation, based on an
accurate and realistic year-by-year project financing plan; (c) project design
should support the "user pays" principle, and active participation of
beneficiaries from the initial project formulation stages into the operation
and maintenance stage would increase effectiveness of project implementation;
(d) irrigation, drainage and flood protection investments should include
-4 -



adequate cost recovery levels from beneficiaries; (e) projects should include
institutional development support for the strengthening of provincial and
local Water Resources Bureaus; (f) baseline data of key performance indicators
should be established for all components before or at appraisal; and (g) the
project launch workshop and/or initial Bank supervision missions should focus
on resolving procurement and disbursement issues.
16.     Valuable lessons learned from the design and implementation of the large
water resource/irrigation component under the recently closed Shaanxi ADP
project must be taken into account when preparing GIIP for implementation.
This applies in particular to raising the needed counterpart funds on time,
and ensuring efficient coordination of provincial and local government
agencies. Support for GIIP will be linked to the satisfactory and expedient
completion by mid-1999 of the Donglei irrigation component of the Shaanxi ADP,
for which IDA Credit closed June 30, 1997.    [Note:   Lessons learned from
completed and ongoing projects financed by the Bank and other development
agencies.]T
Participation
17.     The primary participation aspect of the project will be the involvement
of stakeholders (farmers benefiting from irrigation and drainage) through
consultation and collaboration, in planning and implementing the lower
irrigation and drainage networks and in deciding on the most suitable
arrangements for operation and maintenance of these systems.
Project Evaluation
18.     Environmental Aspects     In general the project is expected to make a
positive impact on the environment, by improving sanitary conditions through
the provision of good quality water, and reducing the ill effects of droughts.
No major environmental issues are expected under the project. Minor issues
may include: (a) the impact of drainage systems on soil erosion and salinity
levels; (b) the effect of irrigation with high-sediment content water on soil
conditions; and (c) the impact of reclaiming marginal lands currently under
rainfed agriculture or uncultivated. Assessments of the expected
environmental impact of the proposed works will be made.
19.     Project Benefits         The project is expected to generate the following
benefits:    (a) increased agricultural production to 4.4 million tons per
year,  which is about 20t above the average production during 1991-96;    (b)
increased employment opportunities because of the expansion of the irrigated
area with about 50,000 ha; (c) increased per capita incomes for farmers in
the project areas; (d) shift from cultivating grains to cash crops with
higher net returns; (e) introducing modern technologies leading to improved
and more efficient water use; (f) improved project management, in particular
the organizational, financial and technical aspects of operation and
maintenance; and (g) further delegation of responsibilities for operation and
maintenance to water-users. The preliminary economic rate of return for the
project has been estimated at 19%.
20.     Project Sustainability.          Project sustainability depends on: (a)
effective project management arrangements; (b) high quality project design and
implementation standards: (c) strong interagency coordination at various
government levels to ensure agreed and equitable water allocation and
- 5 -



distribution to and within the nine subproject areas; (d) introducing
efficient and sustainable O&M procedures and providing adequate funding for
O&M.
21.     Risks.           The main risks of achieving the project's objectives are:
(a) adequate project management and coordination between the government
offices at provincial and local levels; (b) product prices are maintained in
real terms; (c) no significant transport and marketing constraints; (d) water
charges will be brought to a sufficiently high level to cover the costs of
adequate O&M and a reasonable portion of the investment cost; (f) equitable
water allocation and distribution. The risks associated with the achievement
of project outputs are whether: (a) key inputs such as fertilizer and
construction materials will be available when needed; (b) adequate
implementation supervision; (c) counterpart funding is available and on time;
and (d) extraordinary floods or droughts occur.
Contact Point:                   InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 20, 1998
- 6-



ANNEX
Major Environmental Issues:
None expected
Other Environmental Issues:
None identified
Justification/Rational for Environmental Category
Project classification is still to be determined. However, from
preliminary information received the project is likely to be classified
Category "B", because it is not expected to have major negative impacts on
the environment. This classification will be reviewed when the final
environmental impact assessment report will be made available.
Reporting Schedule
Government of Shaanxi has undertaken an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) of the impact of project implementation on the environment. The English
translation is expected to be made available to the Bank's
identification/preparation mission scheduled for April 1998.
The nine subprojects and their originally designed irrigation areas are: Baojixia -
194,810 ha; Jinghuiqu - 89,360 ha, Jiaokouchouwei - 79,820 ha; Taoqupo -21,220 ha;
Shitouhe - 24,670 ha; Fengshiashan - 90,910 ha; Yangmaowan 21,330 ha; Luohuiqu 49,550 ha;
and Shiabaochuan 20,670 ha. Total 592,340 ha.
- 7 -



