Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3221 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4476 CHA
Project Agreement
(Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHAANXI PROVINCE
Dated September 2, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3221 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4476 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 2, 1999, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and SHAANXI PROVINCE (Shaanxi).
WHEREAS  (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fourteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR14,700,000) on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Shaanxi agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to eighty 
million Dollars ($80,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that Shaanxi agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Shaanxi, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, 
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used in 
this Agreement (except in Section 5.04 hereof and in Part A.2 of Section I of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement and in Part A.2 of Section II of said Schedule 1), references to 
the Association, the Credit and the Credit Account shall also be deemed to be 
references to the Bank, the Loan and the Loan Account, respectively. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Shaanxi declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Association and Shaanxi shall otherwise agree, Shaanxi shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Shaanxi shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 
1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 
and 9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions referred to in 
Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement, and without limitation 
thereto, Shaanxi shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Association and 
Shaanxi, a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Shaanxi 
on said plan.
Section 2.04.  (a) Shaanxi shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b) 
Shaanxi shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Shaanxi of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shaanxi shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
Page  3
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the carrying out of the Project.
(b) Shaanxi 
shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association may 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement, and all obligations of the Association and of 
Shaanxi thereunder, shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall have terminated in accordance with their 
terms; or 
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify Shaanxi of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, or under the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  4
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C., 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Shaanxi:
Shaanxi Provincial Finance Bureau
Bing Jiao Lane No. 13
Xi’an, Shaanxi Province
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shaanxi may be 
taken or executed by its Governor or any Vice Governor of Shaanxi, or such other 
person or persons as said Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and 
Shaanxi shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04.  As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to 
Shaanxi, and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated 
prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of Shaanxi to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, Shaanxi shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SHAANXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao 
Page  5
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: 
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods or works to be financed in whole or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of 
the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or more each, and contracts for goods 
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (except for 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region).
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Goods
(a)
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, but not less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Page  6
(c)
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Works 
(a)
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, but not 
less than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $92,500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 3 qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
(c)
Force Account and Community Participation
Minor irrigation and on-farm development works under Part C of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 per assignment, which meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $39,200,000 
in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried out by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines or by 
the use of community members hired in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,500,000 or more; and (c) the first contract for works to be procured in each 
Irrigation District, in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2(a) of this Section 
I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  7
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of Section II. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants’ services to be financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraph 1.10 
of the Consultant Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for monitoring and evaluation, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for Project management and dam safety under Parts A and C of the 
Project which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
Page  8
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
Part A:
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, Shaanxi shall 
maintain, with terms of reference and  resources acceptable to the Association, and 
with competent staff in adequate numbers:
(a)
a Project leading group at the provincial level, to be chaired by 
Shaanxi’s Vice Governor for Agriculture and to include the directors of Shaanxi’s 
Water Conservancy Bureau, Planning Commission, Finance Bureau, Land Administration 
Bureau and Agricultural Development Office, to provide guidance to the PPMO and 
Irrigation District PMOs on Project coordination and the resolution of Project 
implementation issues;
(b)
a Project management office within Shaanxi’s Water Conservancy Bureau, to 
be responsible for the overall coordination and supervision of Project implementation, 
including monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the Project; and
(c)
a Project management office in each Irrigation District involved in 
Project implementation, to be responsible for coordination and supervision of the 
Project activities included within said office’s jurisdiction. 
2.
(a)
Shaanxi shall, through the PPMO, prepare in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association and, not later than December 1 in each calendar year, 
furnish to the Association for its review, an annual work program of activities to be 
carried out under the Project during the following calendar year, to be accompanied by 
a financing plan demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Association that counterpart 
funds in adequate amounts are available for the payment of expenditures to be incurred 
in the carrying out of said activities during said period.
(b)
Shaanxi shall thereafter carry out the Project during said following 
calendar year in accordance with said annual work program, taking into account the 
views of the Association on the matter. 
3.
(a)
Shaanxi shall ensure that all studies, research, training and study tours 
under Part E of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with a program 
acceptable to the Association.  To that end, Shaanxi shall prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and, not later than December 1 in each 
calendar year, furnish to the Association for its prior review, an annual 
implementation plan for studies, research, training and study tours to be carried out 
under the Project during the following calendar year.
(b)
Shaanxi shall thereafter carry out said studies, research, training and 
study tours during said following calendar year in accordance with said annual 
implementation plan, taking into account the views of the Association on the matter. 
4.
Shaanxi shall ensure that the minor irrigation works included in Part C of the 
Project and the program under Part D of the Project to improve the operation and 
maintenance of the irrigation facilities in the Project Area, at both the Irrigation 
District level and at the lateral canal level, shall be carried out in accordance with 
an action plan acceptable to the Association.  To that end, Shaanxi shall prepare at 
the end of each calendar year, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, an action plan for said works and program to be carried out during the 
following calendar year, and furnish the same as part of the work program referred to 
Page  9
in Section 2 of this Part A.
Part B:
Water Charges
1.
Shaanxi declares its policy to recover the recurrent costs of operation and 
maintenance, and a portion of the capital costs, of the water supply facilities and 
drainage systems in its territory from users of the water delivered through said 
facilities, taking into account the need to provide incentives to encourage the 
efficient use of water and to relate the charges on the users thereof to their ability 
to pay and income levels. In furtherance of said policy, Shaanxi shall, promptly upon 
completion of the facilities which are constructed or upgraded under the Project, 
establish and ensure the collection, from the users of water delivered through said 
facilities, of water charges sufficient to cover:  (a) the operation and maintenance 
costs of said facilities as they are incurred; and (b) debt repayment and debt service 
obligations incurred by Shaanxi as referred to in Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement 
and Section 3.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement in respect of said facilities, 
as they become due and payable.
2.
To that end, Shaanxi shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than December 1, 2001, the proposed schedule of 
said water charges in each Irrigation District and the timetable for its 
establishment, together with any information pertaining thereto that the Association 
may reasonably request; and  
(b)
thereafter, promptly take all measures required on its part to introduce 
such schedule according to said timetable, taking into account the views of the 
Association on the matter. 
3.
Shaanxi shall review said water charges in consultation with the Association, at 
least annually, and adjust said charges as necessary so as to continue to give effect 
to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. To that end, Shaanxi shall, not later 
than March 31 in each year commencing 2002, furnish to the Association a status report 
on the collection rate of water charges in each Irrigation District, together with 
recommendations for any adjustments that may be necessary to continue to give effect 
to the provisions of said paragraph 1.
4.
Shaanxi shall maintain a separate accounting for funds collected within its 
jurisdiction pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Part B and 
cause all said funds to be used exclusively for the purposes specified in said 
paragraph 1.
Part C: 
Dam Safety
In order to ensure the safety of the Water Storage Facilities, Shaanxi shall 
take the following actions in accordance with sound engineering practices and on the 
basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association:
Shaanxi shall:  
(a)
undertake periodic reviews of the adequacy of the design and construction 
of the Water Storage Facilities, and of the adequacy of the remedial works to be 
carried out thereon, throughout the period of said construction or carrying out of 
said remedial works (as the case may be); 
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association, promptly upon the completion of 
each said review, a report of the results of said review, together with any 
recommended changes to be introduced into the design, construction or operation of the 
Water Storage Facilities; and 
(c)
thereafter, promptly introduce the changes recommended by said report, 
taking into account the views of the Association on the matter.
Shaanxi shall ensure that the Water Storage Facilities are operated and 
maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices.  
Page  10
To that end, Shaanxi shall:  
(a)
prepare an operation and maintenance plan and an emergency preparedness 
plan for the Water Storage Facilities; 
(b)
furnish the same to the Association not later than June 1, 2002; and 
(c)
thereafter, promptly adopt said plans, taking into account the views of 
the Association on the matter.
Upon completion of the construction of the Water Storage Facilities, or of the 
carrying out of the remedial works thereon (as the case may be) Shaanxi shall:  
(a)
undertake periodic inspections of the Water Storage Facilities at 
intervals and under arrangements acceptable to the Association, in order to identify 
any deficiencies in their designs, construction or condition or in the quality and 
adequacy of the maintenance or methods of their operation, which may endanger their 
safety or the safety of downstream life, property or activities; and 
(b)
promptly rectify any such deficiencies.  
To that end, Shaanxi shall prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, proposed arrangements for said 
inspections not later than December 1, 2002, and thereafter, promptly implement said 
arrangements, taking into account the views of the Association on the matter. In order 
to assist it in undertaking the reviews and inspections referred to in paragraphs 1 
and 3, respectively, of this Part C, Shaanxi shall continue to employ an independent 
dam safety review panel, with membership, terms of reference, and resources acceptable 
to the Association.
Part D:
Environment and Resettlement 
1.
Shaanxi shall take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that 
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Environmental Management and 
Monitoring Plan, and shall ensure that any proposed revision of the Environmental 
Management and Monitoring Plan shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
approval. 
2.
Shaanxi shall take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that 
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan, and 
shall ensure that any proposed revision of the Resettlement Action Plan shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior approval.
3.
Shaanxi shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out of the plans referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above; 
(b)
prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association:  (i) an annual environmental monitoring report not later 
than March 31 of each year, commencing in 2000, summarizing the status of 
implementation of the Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan; and (ii) 
semi-annual resettlement monitoring reports, not later than February 15 (with respect 
to the period from the preceding July 1 to the preceding December 31) and August 15 
(with respect to the period from the preceding January 1 to the preceding June 30) in 
each year, beginning 2000, summarizing the status of implementation of the 
Resettlement Action Plan; and
(c)
ensure that periodic resettlement monitoring reports are prepared under 
terms of reference and by an independent agency, both acceptable to the Association, 
and are furnished to the Association in accordance with the reporting schedule set 
forth in the Resettlement Action Plan for the purpose, analyzing the impact of the 
resettlement activities under the Project during the period under review.
Part E:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Page  11
Shaanxi shall: 
1.
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
2.
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association and furnish to 
the Association, semi-annual reports, not later than February 15 (with respect to the 
period from the preceding July 1 to the preceding December 31) and August 15 (with 
respect to the period from the preceding January 1 to the preceding June 30) in each 
year, beginning 2000, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities carried out by it pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Part E, on the physical 
and financial progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the dates of such reports and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such dates;
3.
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association a mid-term report, on or about March 1, 2002, integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (1) of 
this Part E, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; 
4.
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association a report, on or about March 1, 2002, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the program to strengthen the institutional and management 
arrangements for the irrigation systems under Part D of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying of such reforms during the period following such date; and
5.
review with the Association, not later than June 1, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraphs (3) and (4) of 
this Part E, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
