Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3221 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 2, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3221 CHA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 2, 1999, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project, and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to eighty million dollars ($80,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D)
the Borrower’s Province of Shaanxi (Shaanxi) will carry out the Project 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Shaanxi the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and Shaanxi;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution 
No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such 
countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings wherever used in this 
Agreement:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural or 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected, and “Affected Persons” means, collectively, all persons who 
qualify as an Affected Person.
(b)
“Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan” means the environmental 
management and monitoring plan set forth in the Environmental Impact Assessment for 
the Project, prepared by the Shaanxi Institute of Water Resources and Electric Power 
Investigation and Design and dated December 1998, as the same may be revised from time 
to time in accordance with Part D.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
(c)
“Irrigation District PMO” means the Project management office in each 
Irrigation District referred to in Part A.1(c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(d)
“Irrigation Districts” means, collectively, the following nine irrigation 
districts within the Guanzhong Plain in the Wei River Valley of Shaanxi:  Baojixia, 
Jinhuiqu, Jiaokou, Taoqupo, Sitouhe, Fengjiashan, Yangmaowan, Luohuiqu and Shibuchuan; 
and “Irrigation District” means any of the Irrigation Districts.
(e)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997), as 
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan 
Agreement.
(f)
“PPMO” means the Project management office at the provincial level 
Page  3
referred to in Part A.1(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
(g)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Shaanxi of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(h)
“Project Area” means the areas within the command of the Irrigation 
Districts.
(i)
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the resettlement action plan prepared by 
the Shaanxi Resettlement Leading Group Office and the Shaanxi Design and Research 
Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower, and dated September 1998, as the same may 
be revised from time to time in accordance with Part D.2 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
(j)
“Shaanxi” means the Borrower’s Province of Shaanxi, and any successor 
thereto. 
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(l)
“Water Storage Facilities” means the following eleven water storage 
facilities in Shaanxi:  (i) Fengjiashan and Wangjiaya on the Qian River and Linjiacun 
on the Wei River, all three in Baoji County; (ii) Dabeigou on the Mogou River and 
Yangmaowan on the Qishui River, both in Qianxian County; (iii) Gan on the Gan River in 
Liquan County; (iv) Luohuiqu on the Luo River and Shibuchuan on the Shibuchuan River, 
both in Chengcheng County; (v) Shitouhe on the Shitou River in Meixian County; (vi) 
Taoqupo on the Qu River in Yaoxian County; and (vii) Xingyigou on the Meiyang River in 
Fufeng County. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR14,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1 /2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:  (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
Page  4
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:  (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 2009, and ending February 15, 
2034.  Each installment to, and including, the installment payable on February 15, 
2019, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending; the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:  (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Shaanxi to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Shaanxi therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
Page  5
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Shaanxi to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Shaanxi 
on the following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
the principal amount of the Credit so made available to Shaanxi 
shall be 
equivalent in SDRs (determined as of the date 
or dates of withdrawal from the 
Credit Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn;
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover from Shaanxi such principal amount, in 
dollars 
(determined as of the date or dates of 
recovery) over a period of 17 years, 
inclusive of a grace 
period of 5 years;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge Shaanxi a service charge on such 
principal amount 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a rate equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum; and
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge Shaanxi a commitment fee on the 
principal amount of 
the Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate equal to one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) 
per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Shaanxi pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in subparagraph (a)(i) 
of this 
Section, including those for the Special 
Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
Page  6
not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(1) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Shaanxi shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Shaanxi will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, except only the effectiveness of the Development 
Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Shaanxi, and is legally binding upon Shaanxi in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Page  7
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street,  N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
% of
  (Expressed in
 (Expressed in
 Expenditures
      Category
SDR Equivalent)
    Dollars)     
to be Financed
(1)
Works for Parts 
   10,200,000
   60,900,000
67%
A, B and D
of the Project
(2)
Works for Part 
      700,000
   10,800,000
30%
C of the Project
(3) 
Goods 
    3,700,000
    5,800,000 )
100% of foreign 
expen-
) 
ditures, 100% of  
local
Page  8
) expenditures 
(ex-
) 
factory cost) and 
) 
75% of local
) expenditures 
for 
other
) items 
procured 
locally
(4)
Research, training,
      100,000
    1,700,000
100%
study tours and
consultants’ services
(5)
Fee
       ----
      800,000 ) 
Amount due under 
) 
Section 2.04 of the 
) Loan 
Agreement
   __________
   __________
TOTAL:
   14,700,000
   80,000,000
   ==========
   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People's Republic of China for goods and services supplied from such region shall be 
deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR4,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but on or after September 1, 1998.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account, and the Bank 
may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) works under contracts costing less than 
$1,500,000 equivalent each (other than the first contract for works to be procured in 
each Irrigation District under national competitive bidding procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C. 2(a) of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement); (b) goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; (c) 
services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (d) services provided by individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) research, training and study tours, 
regardless of the cost thereof; all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
or the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in:  (i) improving the 
performance of irrigation systems in the Guanzhong Plain of Shaanxi, and thereby raise 
agricultural production and farm incomes; and (ii) strengthening the organizational, 
technical and financial management of irrigation in Shaanxi.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improvement and Expansion of Water Sources 
Carrying out of a program of investments in the Project Area to improve the 
Page  9
existing physical infrastructure for water storage and delivery, consisting of raising 
of two diversion weirs, rehabilitation, strengthening and expansion of the Water 
Storage Facilities and water intake facilities, and construction of a water transfer 
tunnel.
Part B:
Improvement of Major Water Distribution Systems
(1)
Upgrading about 600 kilometers of main and branch canals, extension of about 200 
kilometers of drainage systems, and repair and replacement of about 25 major 
irrigation structures, all in the Project Area.
(2)
Rehabilitation of about 50 pumping plants in the Project Area, and construction 
of an electrical sub-station at Gushi in Jiaokou Irrigation District, together with 
the provision of related power transmission lines of about 26 kilometers.
Part C:
Improvement and Expansion of Minor Water Distribution Systems
Upgrading of lateral canal systems on about 180,000 hectares of partially 
irrigated land, and expansion of lateral canal systems on, and on-farm development of, 
about 50,000 hectares of unirrigated land, all in the Project Area.
Part D: 
Improvement of Operation and Maintenance
Carrying out of a program to improve the operation and maintenance of the 
irrigation facilities in the Project Area, consisting of:  (1) upgrading of the 
physical infrastructure, including improvement of access roads, rehabilitation of 
management station buildings and research facilities, and provision of monitoring and 
communications equipment; and (2) strengthening of the institutional and management 
arrangements within each of the Irrigation Districts, including allocation of 
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of lateral canal systems to qualified 
operators and/or to the users thereof, through the provision of training, technical 
assistance and equipment required therefor.
Part E: 
Institutional Development and Training
Strengthening of the capabilities of personnel in irrigation management in the 
Project Area through:  (1) carrying out of studies to develop and test modern water 
saving technology for on-farm irrigation; and (2) provision of training in 
construction supervision, irrigation system operation and maintenance, financial 
aspects of water delivery systems, water quality monitoring, dam safety and project 
management, including monitoring and evaluation.
Part F:
Project Management
Strengthening the project management capacity of the PPMO and the Irrigation 
District PMOs through the provision of vehicles, computers and other office equipment. 
Part G:
Resettlement of Affected Persons
Resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of the Project.
*          *          * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  10
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals  from  the Credit Account and the Loan Account allocated to the eligible 
Categories plus the total amount of all  outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
Page  11
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the 
case maybe, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, 
including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
