                                                Document of
                                           The World Bank


                                     FOR OFFICE USE ONLY


                                                                                Report No:ICR000015




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               ( IBRD-44760 IDA-32210 NZL-36246 )

                                                   ON A

                                     LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                           US$ 80 MILLION

                              AND A CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF

                     SDR 13.86 MILLION (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                 FOR THE

                   GUANZHONG IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                             January 31, 2007




         Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
         East Asia and Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                      1

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           ( Exchange Rate Effective 07/27/2006 )
                                 Currency Unit = Renmi
                                  Renmi 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                     US$ 1.00 = Renmi 8.3


                                        Fiscal Year
                                  January 1 - December 31




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA  Analytical and Advisory Services
AB    Agricultural Bureau
ADP  Agricultural Development Project
BCM  Billion Cubic Meters
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy
DCA   Development Credit Agreement
DSRP Dam Safety Review Panel
EIA   Environmental Impact Assessment
EMMP Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
ERR   Economic Rate of Return
FMS  Financial Management System
GIIP  Guanzhong Irrigation Improvement Project
GoC  Government of China
GoS  Government of Shaanxi
HH    Household
Ha   Hectare
ID    Irrigation District
IDPMO Irrigation District Project Management Office
JSC   Joint Stock Company
KPI  Key Performance Indicator
Kwh  Kilowatt hour
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MCM  Million cubic meters
MOF  Ministry of Finance
MOM  Management Operations and Maintenance
MSR   Main System Reform
MTR   Mid-Term Review
MWR  Ministry of Water Resources
Mu   Chinese unit of land area equal to 1/15 Ha.



                                              2

NDRC National Development and Reform Commission
NEPA National Environmental Protection Agency
NPV  Net Present Value
NWAU North West Agricultural University
O & M Operation and Maintenance
OCC   Opportunity Cost of Capital
OFD  On-Farm Development
PDOs  Project Development Objectives
PFB  Provincial Finance Bureau
PIP  Project Implementation Plan
PLG  Project Leading Group
PPC  Provincial Planning Commission
PPMO Provincial Project Management Office
PWCB Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau
RAP  Resettlement Action Plan
RCB   Rural Countryside Building
RMB   Remin
SARS Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SPC  State Planning Commission
TA   Technical Assistance
WCB  Water Conservancy Bureau
WMS  Water Management Station
WRM  Water Resource Management
WUA  Water User Association
cum  Cubic meters
kha  1,000 hectares
km   Kilometer
m3   Cubic meters




                            Vice President: James W. Adams

                          Country Director: David R. Dollar

                           Sector Manager: Rahul Raturi

                      Project Team Leader: Geoffrey Spencer




                                          3

                                           China
                               CN-Guanzhong Irrigation



                                       CONTENTS




1. Basic Information
2. Key Dates
3. Ratings Summary
4. Sector and Theme Codes
5. Bank Staff
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
8. Assessment of Outcomes
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
11. Lessons Learned
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis
Annex 2. Restructuring
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 4. Outputs by Component
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 13. Additional Annexes
MAP




                                             4

1. Basic Information

Country:                China                 Project Name:           CN-Guanzhong
                                                                      Irrigation

Project ID:             P051888               L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-44760,IDA-
                                                                      32210,NZL-36246
ICR Date:               01/31/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               PRC
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 100.0M            Disbursed Amount:       USD 92.2M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies

Shaanxi Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 03/01/1998           Effectiveness:     12/01/1999         12/01/1999
Appraisal:         02/01/1999        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          05/25/1999        Mid-term Review:                      10/13/2002
                                     Closing:           06/30/2005         06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):           Satisfactory

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):     None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             5

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                  Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                     96               96
Sub-national government administration                       4                4
                                              Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                               Primary          Primary
Other rural development                        Secondary        Secondary
Water resource management                      Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                       Positions                  At ICR         At Approval

Vice President:                               James W. Adams   Jean-Michel
                                                               Severino
Country Director:                             David R. Dollar  Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                               Rahul Raturi     Geoffrey B. Fox

Project Team Leader:                          Geoffrey Spencer Engelbert L.
                                                               Kramer
ICR Team Leader:                              Geoffrey Spencer
ICR Primary Author:                           Geoffrey Spencer




                                          6

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


6.1.1 The project was set in the context of China facing a major challenge to feed its vast
and growing population. The ninth five year plan (1996-2001) aimed to increase national
grain production to 500 million tons per year, along with substantial increases in cotton
and oil-seed production. The assessment was that almost all the increased production
must come from irrigated farm land through increasing the productivity of existing land
and water resources and through the expansion of the irrigated area. At appraisal, it was
estimated that China's available and harnessed water resources would have to increase
substantially to 670 billion cubic meters (BCM) per year by 2010. It was also estimated
that only about one-half of this increased amount could come from the development of
new resources of supply, with the remainder having to come from water savings or
enhanced demand management. The irrigation sub-sector, as the major user of water,
was therefore seen as the target for much-needed and urgent reforms.

6.1.2 The key issues and challenges to be addressed to bring about reforms and
sustainability in the irrigation sector were identified as: (a) how to pay for the needed
investments in rehabilitation, modernization and enhancement, as well as improvements
to operation and maintenance (O&M) programs; (b) how to achieve more efficient
management of irrigation systems; (c) how to increase local farmer participation and
"ownership" in irrigation systems; and (d) how to improve the design, implementation,
O&M, technical, institutional and financial standards of irrigation systems design,
construction and management. Both the Government of China (GoC), through the
Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) and the Government of Shaanxi (GoS) strongly
supported the need to address the above issues to bring sub sector reforms.

6.1.3 The rationale for Bank involvement centered around the December 1997 national
directives from State Planning Commission (SPC) ­ now the National Development and
Reform Commission (NDRC) and the steps already taken by the GoS to initiate
irrigation management reform programs in the Province's main irrigation districts (IDs)
on the Guanzhong Plain. The reforms were aimed at both physical and financial
management, including the transfer of the O&M function at lateral level and below
sections of irrigation systems to farmer management.

6.1.4 Shaanxi Province had not only demonstrated a long and successful history with
irrigation and drainage development, but had a clear commitment to irrigation system
reform. The value added by the Bank's involvement was seen as an opportunity to
accelerate and deepen this reform process. The Bank had past involvement and
experience with the development and management of large water resources projects and
hence it had the expertise to support Shaanxi with its strong reform agenda.




                                               7

6.1.5 In addition, while the project was to be implemented at the provincial level, it was
designed to demonstrate and support national government strategies endorsed in the CAS
to: (a) intensify irrigated agricultural production; (b) reform irrigation management,
including the transfer of management responsibilities to beneficiaries; (c) strengthen
physical and financial sustainability of irrigation systems; (d) improve cost recovery; (e)
develop available water resources and improve water-use efficiencies; (f) incorporate into
projects water storage, water transfer, irrigation and drainage improvement and flood
control measures; (g) focus on reconstruction of essential infrastructure; (h) improve rural
employment and incomes; and (i) alleviate poverty.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.2.1 The PDO was to improve the irrigation system performance in nine IDs on the Guanzhong
Plain by: (a) increasing agricultural production; (b) increasing net incomes of farmers within the
project area; and (c) strengthening organizational, technical and financial aspects of irrigation
management.

6.2.2The KPIs were: (a) additional areas receiving full irrigation; (b) adequate levels and
collection rates of water charges; (c) increased agricultural production; (d) higher net
incomes of project beneficiaries; and (e) improved water use efficiency.

6.2.3 The project therefore set out to: (a) increase grain production to 4.4 million tons/
year (a 20% increase over the average production during the period 1991-96); (b)
increase employment opportunities through the expansion of irrigated area by about
50,000 ha and improvement to full irrigation of about 180,000 ha of existing partially
irrigated area; (c) increase incomes for farmers in the project area; (d) increased
cultivation of cash crops with higher net returns; (e) introduce better irrigation methods
leading to improved and more efficient water use; (f) support irrigation management
reforms aimed at improving the organizational, financial and technical sustainability of
O&M; and (g) provide greater involvement of farmers in the management of lower
systems through the formation and fostering of WUAs and delegated responsibility for
O&M below branch canal outlets to WUAs.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

No revision to either the PDOs or the KPIs was required throughout the project.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

6.4.1 The project was designed to target a population of about 5.5 million rural people in
the project area who were associated with the agricultural sector and depended upon the
supply of grains, vegetable cooking oil, and other crop production. Other beneficiaries



                                                  8

included the Provincial Water Conservation Bureau and the staff of the each of the IDs
directly involved in the project, all of whom received capacity building through training
and study tours.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

6.5.1 The project had eight components: (a) Improvement and Expansion of Water Sources;
(b) Improvement of Major Distribution Systems; (c) Improvement and Expansion of Minor
Distribution Systems; (d) Improvement of Operations and Maintenance; (e) Training, Study
Tours and Technical Assistance; (f) Project Management; (g) Survey, Design and
Construction Supervision; and (h) Land Acquisition and Resettlement.

6.6 Revised Components

6.6.1 No modifications were made to any of the components during project
implementation.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

No changes were necessary



7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

7.1.2 The project design was in full conformity with the Bank's global Water Resources
Management Strategy (2003) and the China Country Water Resources Assistance Strategy
(2002) and those of the national and provincial governments, and incorporated the lessons
learned from the previous sixteen water resource and irrigation projects in China supported
by the Bank. The main lessons learned were that:

(a) All levels of Water Conservancy Bureaus within the Province must play a leading role in
project design and implementation; (b) irrigation and drainage investments must include
adequate cost- recovery mechanisms; and (c) projects should include the institutional
strengthening of Water Conservancy Bureaus at all levels as an integral part of the project.
The Bank was able to bring to bear its world-wide experience and expertise during the
preparation and appraisal. The Bank's input in terms of staff and skills mix was highly
satisfactory and resulted in a very quick (11 months) preparation time. Between
identification and appraisal, four missions were mobilized consisting of multi-disciplinary
teams of experts in the disciplines of water resources management, agriculture, resettlement,
economics, procurement, financial management, environmental management, and
mechanical and irrigation engineering.




                                                9

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

7.2.1 There were no changes or restructuring necessary during the life of the project. At the
Mid-term Review (MTR), agreement was reached to amend the expected outputs for some
components, based on the implementation experience gained in the first half of the project,
including the actual costs of activities (See Annex 4 for details).

7.2.2 The project was not at risk at any stage during implementation. There were minor
reallocations of funds between disbursement categories at the MTR and about 18 months
before project closure.

7.2.3 The Bank's supervision was proactive with twelve missions carried out during the
implementation period, employing a mix of expertise depending on the issues at the
particular time. Timely and detailed aide memoires issued after each mission allowed early
effective action to be taken by the Provincial Project Management Office (PPMO) and this
added considerable value to supervision effectiveness and the smooth implementation of the
project.

7.2.4 The project's implementation was slowed by two force majeure events in 2003 and as a
result, the project's life was extended by one year. The events were: (a) a major flood in the
Wei River, which dominates the project area; and (b) the national Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome (SARS) outbreak and emergency. The impact of the flood event was two-fold.
It reduced substantially the agricultural tax revenue to the Province because of lost
production on flooded agricultural land and increased the financial burden for flood
fighting and post flood event activities. This in turn affected the availability of counter-
part funds to the project for a year and hence slowed the implementation progress. The
main impact of the SARS outbreak was to curtail project supervision and it also slowed
the project implementation. Despite the impact of these two events, the project staff
overcame the delays and with a one-year extension, fully completed the project.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

7.3.1 Key elements of a practical M&E system were identified at appraisal consisting of: (a) six-
monthly periodic monitoring and reporting of the project's physical and financial progress by the
Irrigation District Project Management Offices (IDPMOs) consolidated by the PPMO; (b)
monitoring of key performance indicators by IDPMOs consolidated by PPMO; and (c) periodic
M&E of the lateral systems turnover and ID management reform efforts by a third party
specialist service to provide guidance for beneficial changes. M&E was specifically itemized in
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) under Component 5 "Institutional Development and
Training".

7.3.2 Two International M&E specialists were contracted shortly after Loan effectiveness in
October 1999 to assist the PPMO with the development in detail of the M&E system, including
the specification of the data to be collected, classified by the 6 reform models plus laterals
(lowest level of canal) that were not reformed. Data was to be collected at two levels: (a) from
all laterals by the responsible Water Management Station(WMS); and (b) from sampled lateral



                                                  10

canal supply areas and from individual households within these laterals, classified by
six management reform models of farmer-oriented associations, as well as unreformed laterals. It
was noted by the consultant that laterals and sampled households were to be selected from head,
middle and tail reaches, to determine changes in water allocation and distribution, and that
control areas in non-irrigated and/or non-improved areas were also to be established to identify
impacts caused by external factors.

7.3.3 M&E Implementation. The PPMO contracted the Northwest Agricultural University
(NWAU) to implement the M&E system as an independent third party and to ensure that the
system worked efficiently. Key indicators were routinely monitored with some of these related
to all laterals within the nine project IDs monitored by the IDPMOs, while others related to 110
sampled laterals and 800 sampled households monitored by the NWAU. Unfortunately, limited
resources prevented monitoring and analysis of head, middle and tail reaches.

7.3.4 M&E Utilization. The M&E system provided timely information for the PPMO and the Bank
to track the KPIs and allowed the PPMO to take continuous corrective actions during implementation.
The use of a third-party M&E service provider was efficient and provided a degree of independence.
The M&E results were instrumental in convincing the PWCB, the PPMO and the IDPMOs of the
advantages of the WUA model over the other reform models being trialed. This gave the GoS the
confidence to adopt a Provincial WUA policy. At ICR, the M&E system provided important data for
assessing the project outcomes and its impact on the direct project beneficiaries.




7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

7.4.1 The project triggered three Bank safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP4.01),
Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12) and Safety of Dams (OP4.37). The PPMO and the ID PMOs
effectively managed the safeguard activities through an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
and Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan (EMMP), a Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) and an international Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP). At all times during
implementation, the project was in compliance with Bank procedures and policies. In addition,
the project implementation was managed in accordance with the Bank's Financial Management
(OP10.02), Procurement (OP11.00) and Disbursement (OP12.00) policies. Details of the
safeguard activities are described in Annex 13.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

7.5.1 The design of the project management arrangements included the establishment of the
PPMO within the PWCB and IDPMOs within each of the nine IDs, as an integral part of the
provincial water and ID management structure. The responsibility for post-completion
operations rests with the PWCB and each ID, and because both had a close and continuing
involvement in project implementation the transition to regular operations has been completed
and is reflected in the strong likelihood of sustainability and low risk to the development
outcomes. The PWCB and the IDs assume the responsibility for the on-going MOM of the huge
investment in new and replacement assets, supported by a significant increase (average 67%) in


                                                  11

O&M funding in each ID. The responsibility for the fostering of WUAs has also been assigned
to each ID.

7.5.2 By design, the project effectively improved the capacity of the PWCB and ID staff through
training, targeted study tours and technical assistance in many skills areas, which prepared the
water management institutions for the transition to normal operations. These skills areas,
included: (a) technical (design, construction innovation, quality control); (b) water operations
(daily planning, communications, canal operations, water measurement); (c) maintenance of
assets (dams, pumping stations, canals and drains, structures); and (d) customer service
orientation (it built the water service provider/water service receiver relationship, the ID/WUA
computer-based and totally transparent customer -farmer information and billing).




8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

8.1.1 The achievement of the PDOs, and particularly the depth of institutional reforms delivered
at the main system and lateral canal levels in the IDs, are even more relevant at the end of the
project than they were at the design and appraisal stage. During the implementation period, the
GoC strengthened considerably the policy environment and the national political economy of
rural development. The government, under the 11th five-year plan (2005-2011) has started a
program focused on the "rural space" through a national program for "Rural Country Side
Building" (RCB). Included as an integral part of the RCB plan is: (a) the reform of water
resources and irrigation management institutions at provincial level; (b) national and matching
provincial policy guidelines on the formation and fostering of WUAs to bring about greater
farmer participation and influence in irrigation management; (c) community involvement, and
participation in other rural services and asset turnover; (d) national recognition of the importance
of water resources management (and not water resources development) and the beginning of a
national water rights framework; and (e) the recognition in north China that water is the limiting
natural resource and therefore that improving the efficiency of use of water in irrigation is
paramount. The Bank is supporting a major AAA services task working to assist the GoC to
identify water scarcity issues. Annex 12 lists some of the significant documents that are part of
this very rich policy and program environment. The project objectives, design and
implementation remain relevant to the country and Bank assistance strategies that are centered on
addressing water scarcity and improving the efficiency of water use in agriculture as well as
reforming water resource management institutions. The project outcomes effectively brought
about improved livelihoods of the poor, increased the quality of rural services i.e. irrigation
services through a combination of infrastructure investment, strengthened capacity of the
irrigation service provider institutions, as well as establishing user participation in irrigation
management, increased agricultural productivity, increased the productivity of agricultural water
use and improvements in levels of irrigation charges cost recovery and in O&M expenditure.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)




                                                  12

13

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)



8.3.1 The project has a highly satisfactory economic outcome with an EIRR of 19%
compared to 26% estimated at appraisal (Table 6, Annex 5). The overall economic
impact of the project is lower than envisaged, due largely to the slower than anticipated
increase in agricultural output and the significantly lower than expected world market
prices for wheat, maize and cotton. The NPV at completion is RMB787.21 million
compared to the appraisal estimate of RMB1,042.11 million. The EIRRs for each ID
were between 12% and 32% (Table 7, Annex 5).


8.3.2 The project has had a substantial positive impact on the livelihoods of an estimated
5.04 million poor rural people, slightly below the 5.5 million estimated at appraisal
because of the lower than expected expansion in irrigated areas (39,950 actual compared
to 49,050 ha anticipated). This impact has been captured by a well designed third-party
M&E system which monitored the efficiency of the water delivery system, as well as
agricultural production and farmers' incomes. Data were systematically collected during
project implementation on KPIs from all nine IDs which included water delivery, water
charges and collection rates, and O&M expenditure. In addition, a survey of 800
farming households across 110 lateral level canals spread throughout the nine project
IDs was conducted every year to measure the impact of the project on farmers' incomes
and production costs stratified across five different water management reform models
and unreformed control laterals. The major financial investment (79% of total project
costs) was in improving physical infrastructure (components 1-3). This large investment
in infrastructure was leveraged by a relatively small, but key investment in institutional
reform and capacity building aimed at improving the water delivery institutional and
management arrangements and in increasing the technical capacity of ID staff. The
outcome was a very effective increase in irrigation system performance and significant
efficiency gains in water used in agriculture.

8.3.3 Furthermore, beyond appraisal expectations, the project has successfully
demonstrated how farmers can actively engage in the management, operations and
maintenance (MOM) of irrigation systems, through the formation of WUAs. The direct
project experience has resulted in radically new O&M and system reform policies being
adopted by GoS. The likelihood of the project interventions being sustained is therefore
considered to be high. The project benefits and its impacts on agriculture, farmers'
incomes, and on system O&M and cost recovery, are summarized below. Details are set
out in Annex 5 where the differences between appraisal and project implementation
completion estimations are analyzed.

Project Benefits


                                             14

8.3.4Quantifiable benefits . A number of benefits have been quantified, which include (a)
increased farmer incomes; (b) increased agricultural production; (c) improved water-use
efficiency; and (d) improved efficiency and sustainability of irrigation supply services.

8.3.5 Non-quantifiable benefits . The project has generated a number of important benefits
which have not been quantified. These include: (a) dam rehabilitation and dam safety
monitoring, which have resulted in reduced risk of dam failures and the cost of
downstream damage; (b) improved surface-water use efficiency has reduced reliance on
groundwater for irrigation and resulted in preserving valuable groundwater reserves as
the main sources of water to cities, towns and industries; (c) the introduction of
environmental management and monitoring plans will result in improved water quality
and public health, and the preservation of some environmentally important habitats.

Project Impacts

8.3.6 Impact on agricultural production . The M&E system monitored changes in
crop yields and cropping patterns on the 800 sample farms regularly surveyed during
project implementation which were scattered throughout the project IDs. Agricultural
statistics from 18 representative villages within the project area and a further 18 (control)
villages close by (but outside) the IDs were compiled and analyzed for the period 1998
to 2005. These data confirm that the project has significantly raised agricultural
production. There has been a significant shift to higher value vegetable and fruit crops in
the IDs. Crop yields have increased on average across the IDs for the major crops from
before project to after project by between 15%-88% and cropping intensities have
increased slightly on average from 157% to 163%. There has been a marked shift in the
cropping to permanent fruit crops and high value vegetable production in preference to
growing lower profitability crops. This is in marked contrast to areas outside of the
project, where there has been a modest improvement in crop yields (due to the update of
some improved technology), but much less than in the project area, averaging 19%,
cropping intensities have increased slightly from 127 to 130%, but there has been no
significant shift to more profitable crops (Table 13, Annex 5).


8.3.7 Water savings and increased availability of water . Improvements to
headworks, pumping stations, lining of canals, drainage and on-farm works have reduced
water losses and increased the speed at which water can be delivered to farms. Savings
have been significant and are calculated in the range 4% to 10%, depending on the
location within each ID water supply system. Because of the improved water delivery
capacity and system efficiency, pumping stations are able to provide a better and more
timely service in response to farmers' demands for water. Water supplied per hectare has
increased markedly by 41% from 1,488 cubic meters before project to 2,092 cubic
meters at project end. Water productivity has also increased markedly, from
RMB1.05/cubic meter (cum) to 1.36 RMB/cum (+29.5%), surpassing the appraisal
estimate of RMB1.22/cum.

8.3.8 Expanded irrigated area and area of improved irrigation . Project infrastructural


                                             15

works resulted in an expansion of 39,950 ha irrigated and improved irrigation water
delivery on an additional 155,120 ha, for a total achievement of 195,070 ha. The
appraisal estimates of 50,000 ha of expansion and 180,000 ha of improved area were
revised down at the MTR to reflect higher than anticipated (at appraisal) construction
costs. The revised figures resulted in a lowering of the physical improvement targets to
a total of 194,350 ha. The achievement in total slightly exceeded the MTR revised
figures, but was 19% and 13% below appraisal estimates, respectively, for the expanded
and the improved areas. In addition, project monitoring has confirmed that all farmers,
including those in the IDs, but not in areas targeted for the investment at farm level have
benefited from improved water delivery service resulting from physical improvements
and the institutional water management reforms undertaken through the project. This
additional benefiting area across the nine IDs is estimated at 368,771 hectares.

8.3.9Increased number of irrigations and improved water productivity . Farmers
confirm that they now receive more irrigations per cropping season than they did
previously. Anecdotal evidence suggests that where WUAs are functioning, the number
of irrigations in a year have increased from 3 to 5-6. The M&E farmer survey shows that
across the 800 households surveyed, over the 6-year project implementation period, the
number of annual irrigations increased as much as 30% compared to before project, and
that comparing reformed laterals to unreformed laterals the number of irrigations
averaged 40% more over the 5-year period 2001-05. Water productivity, calculated as
the gross value of production/cum of irrigation water applied i.e., RMB/cum across all
nine IDs, increased a remarkable 30% from 1.05RMB/cum before project to 1.36
RMB/cum at project end.

8.3.10 Energy savings . Power consumption through improvements in the operational
capacity and efficiency of pumping stations has been reduced by 12%, from 0.162
Kwh/cum before project to 0.143 Kwh/cum after implementation.

8.3.11 Higher farm and rural incomes and greater employment
opportunities. Farmers have benefited through substantially increased farm incomes.
Net farm incomes have, on average more than doubled (129% increase) from 2000 to
2005 across all farms surveyed (Table 11, Annex 5). The M&E survey monitored farm
households across five irrigation management reform systems, as well as households on
unreformed laterals. The largest gains have been realized by farmers organized as
WUAs and these findings were important in Shaanxi Province deciding to adopt a WUA
policy and to use this model for irrigation system management reform. On average over
the six year period, net incomes have increased 72% on WUAs monitored farms
compared to farms on the unreformed laterals (see Table 12, Annex 5). The higher net
farm incomes earned have resulted in a preference by farmer to work on their farms
rather than to sell their surplus labor to others. There has been a significantly reduced
work-load particularly for women in irrigating their plots because of the more efficient,
reliable and equitable water delivery and management system. The survey also shows
(Table 11, Annex 5) that the shift to more intensive and more profitable crops
(vegetables and fruit) has resulted in farmers being able to apply more modern higher
productivity technologies (much higher quality seed, fertilizer and machinery costs, the



                                              16

latter for land preparation and harvesting). Additional employment opportunities in the
project areas have been created due to the significantly higher volumes of farm
production moving through supply chains in processing and marketing the incremental
farm output generated by the project.

8.3.12 Improved cost recovery and increased expenditure on O&M . Over the life
of the project, water prices have increased in all nine IDs on average by 67 % from
RMB0.139 to RMB0.232 /cum, and collection rates have increased from 95% to 99%
(Table 9, Annex 5) when compared to the base line. The project through its activities on
irrigation institutional and management reform has resulted in substantially more
resources being allocated to IDs for O&M. An analysis of O&M expenditure by ID
shows that between 2000 and 2005 it has increased by an average of 34% to 117% in
eight of the IDs, and in one case by 414%, (Table 8, Annex 4).

8.3.13 Efficiency gains through the formation of WUAs. The project has successfully
demonstrated that the formation of WUAs is the most efficient and sustainable way to
reform the MOM of the lower level water delivery system. A total of 138 WUAs have
been registered, covering about 22% of the project area in the nine IDs. These WUAs
employ their own staff to manage irrigation water delivery and are undertaking repairs to
small structures. The project has, through its training programs, provided WUAs with
the capacity to operate efficiently within the funds they are able to retain from the water
fees they collect from their members. Financial analysis of a sample of WUAs (Table
10, Annex 5) indicates that over a three-year period 2003-05 they have managed well
their own finances. Water fee retentions have been used to pay wages, some basic
maintenance, office expenses, and for irrigation and other expenses. Funds accumulated
after three-years for future maintenance average 12% of the annual funds retained from
water fee collection.



8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

8.4.1 The project fully achieved the three PDOs in an economically efficient way. The
outcomes are very relevant in the context of the recognized need by the GoC for accelerated
rural development, including water resources management reforms. The project outcomes
with respect to WUA development and the M&E of the various reform models of farmer
participation are particularly relevant and have national significance for rural development
and water resource management in China.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

8.5.1 The attainment of the PDO of increasing net farm household income by an average of
129% had a significant impact on the poor. The project by design attached great importance



                                              17

to women's participation, particularly through the training, capacity-building and
communications activities. These served to improve the on-farm technical and production
skills of women and also their participation skills (and hence their involvement in the
management and working of WUAs). With respect to the project impact on women's issues,
the survey and data gathering conducted as part of the borrower's ICR process specifically
found the following: (a) 85% of farmers believed that the status of women had been
improved because of the project; (b) 70% of respondents believed the project resulted in a
reduced labor requirement for women on the farm; and (c) 81% believed that women's off-
farm job opportunities had been improved because of the reduced on-farm labor
requirements.

8.5.2 A high degree of social development of farm household members was delivered
through the formation and fostering of WUAs and the greater participation and influence
that farmers are able to exert through participatory management arrangements established
under the project. The most significant benefit farmers perceive they obtain from their
WUAs is their ability to work as a group to order water when they need it from the water
management stations. Farmers through WUAs are realizing other important benefits as
well. Some, for example, report being able to mobilize technical assistance from the
agriculture department, which has assisted them in changing their cropping patterns to
more profitable crops and in adopting new technologies. Others have reported that their
WUA has been able to organize the marketing of their produce, enabling them to realize
considerably higher prices than selling individually.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

8.5.3 The project PDOs included the reform of irrigation system management at two levels:
(a) Main System Reform (MSR); and (b) lateral canal level. The reforms have been fully
achieved and were delivered by the staff of the PWCB, IDs and farmers through the training
and TA activities of the project. The strength of the institutional development outcome is the
establishment of a new relationship between the Water Service provider (the IDs and WMS)
and the Water Service receiver (farmers through WUAs). Other notable capacity
building/strengthening activities at MSR and lateral level were: (a) computerized customer
information and billing at each household level; (b) improved water distribution management
through modern communications, planning, information gathering and water measurement
that resulted in higher levels of service and in greater equity and reliability of irrigation
services; (c) dam safety function - adoption of processes and procedures developed under the
project by the international DSRP as the provincial standard; (d) adoption of modern
computer and satellite- based flood forecasting and warning procedures; and (e) adoption of
the Bank's procurement processes for wider application beyond the project.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

8.5.4 A well functioning WUA provides its members with equitable and
reliable irrigation services thereby almost eliminating disputes between individual
farmers (mostly males). The surprising outcome is that this situation allows one adult
household member (usually the male) to pursue off farm employment, thus in some


                                               18

cases, more that doubling the household income. The situation also allows rural
households to share in the benefits from the economic growth of the non farm sector in
China.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not applicable.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

9.1.1 Political support and a rich enabling policy environment focused on accelerated rural
development, WRM and irrigation sub-sector reforms at both the national and provincial level
has strengthened considerably during project implementation (see Annex 12). The project
outcomes are therefore relevant and the lessons learned, particularly with respect to MSR and
lateral level reform, involving a greater role for farmers through WUAs have national
significance. There is strong provincial government and institutional ownership of the outcomes,
but more importantly the project created a new dynamic relationship between the water service
providers (the IDs) and the water service receivers (the WUAs), which has brought about a
significant increase in the level of irrigation system performance and in the level of irrigation
service provided to the farmers. The social outcomes of the project are two-fold: (a) farmers,
through the WUAs have greater roles and influence in decision making about their water service;
and (b) because of the improved quality of water services, farmer households are more viable.
Long-term asset care has improved considerably with adequate O&M funding coming from
increased water charges and improved collection rates. The dam safety procedures and practices
developed and implemented as part of the project have been adopted as standard province-wide
policy and procedures. As a direct result of the project, the PWCB has also adopted the Bank's
procurement procedures for major procurement actions for better management and control. The
project introduced some technically innovative activities, including state-of-the-art computerized
dam monitoring systems, flood warning systems, concrete canal lining to mitigate frost heave
problems, quality control of civil works construction, M&E processes, and procurement
management. All the technological innovation has been embraced by the staff as part of their
capacity building, strongly supported by training and technical assistance. The project is both
economically and financially robust (see Section 8 and Annex 5).

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

10.1.1 The project reflected very well the strategic context at sector and country levels and
was therefore well conceived, well designed and fully prepared, which allowed quick
processing within the Bank. The approach taken proved to be the right mix of government
institutional reforms that were "top down" measures combined with reforms at the farmer/water user
level that were "bottom up" measures, all focused on the achievement of the PDOs. The components



                                                  19

were the right combination of hardware investment and software capacity building and reforms to
bring about the primary objective of improved irrigation system performance. During
preparation, attention was paid to setting up effective implementation management arrangements and
the M&E system, both of which enhanced project implementation and supervision by the Bank.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

10.1.2 Supervision was proactive with a total of twelve supervision missions fielded during the
implementation phase using the right mix of expertise, both national and international, Bank staff
and consultants, depending on the issues current at the time. The project was never at risk at any
stage and the safeguards, procurement and disbursement aspects were managed well, all in
accordance with Bank policies. Early in the project a problem occurred when procurement
documentation was prepared on the basis of preliminary design data; several "variations to
contracts" were subsequently necessary to correct this, and most involved an under estimate of
quantities. Implementation progress was slowed in 2003 by two force majeure events that had an
impact on counter part funds flows. The well-functioning M&E system allowed Bank
Supervision to focus on the development impact and to help the borrower make decisions early in
order to maximize this impact. Safeguards and fiduciary management was sound and
inaccordance with Bank policies.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

10.1.3 The last supervision mission (ISR 16) rated the project as satisfactory. The ICR
mission, with the benefit of the final M&E report and corresponding analysis combined with
the full and final data on the control group was able to better quantify the end of project
achievements and assess the final project impacts. Based on these factors, the rating of the
Bank's performance is satisfactory.

10.1.4 Therefore, the Bank's overall performance is rated as a very solid satisfactory, because
of the combination of the high quality of preparation and of supervision, all contributing to
the project outcomes.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

10.2.1 Throughout the project preparation and implementation phases, the GoS provided
strong political support and leadership and very effective inter-departmental coordination
through the establishment and effective working of the Project Leading Group (PLG),
chaired at Vice Governor level.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory




                                                    20

Implementing
Agency              Performance

                    Careful selection, high levels of competence, consistency of
                    performance and management of staff at the PPMO and ID PMO at all
                    levels contributed to the outcomes. Skillful use was made of the M&E
Shaanxi Provincial  system to progressively make knowledge-based decisions to improve
Water               project implementation effectiveness and outcomes. Attention was
Conservancy         given to capacity building at all levels through appropriate training and
Bureau              study tours, including training for farmers. Careful selection and use of
                    international and national TA, particularly the use of independent third
                    party consultants for the EMMP and the M&E system, was particularly
                    effective.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

10.2.3 The highly satisfactory outcome was in part due to GoS leadership and commitment, an
understanding of and a willingness to lead the reform progress by the PWCB, and professional,
competent and proactive management by the PPMO and the ID PMOs.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

11.1 Effective Water Resources Management Reforms. The key lessons from this
project are that genuine WRM reforms will be successfully delivered if: (i) there is a
strong enabling policy, regulatory and legal framework; (ii) strong political commitment
to the reform process and the will to overcome the resistance to reforms that will emerge;
(iii) any reform package should include a combination of government institutional
reforms or "top down" measures and "bottom up" reform measures involving water users.
This combined approach should be focused on participatory irrigation management by creating
and/or strengthening the relationship between the water service providers and the water users
through WUAs.

11.2 Effective Project Management and Supervision. Professional leadership and
management by PMOs at all levels is a key success factor, as is the careful selection and
continuity of appointment of PMO staff at all levels. The Bank's supervision strategy was
built around using this capacity within the borrower's project management organizations and
institutions and effectively using the M&E system established through an independent third
party, thus developing trust and credibility between the Bank and the borrower.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

12.1 Detailed comments on the draft ICR were received from the borrower. In summary the
borrower (a) agreed that the ICR was comprehensive, brief but to the point; (b) gives an all
rounded summary of the impacts and achievements of the project; and (c) provides a good
analysis of the economic impact of the project The borrower was also of the opinion that the



                                                  21

ratings given by the Bank to the project and to their performance were appropriate. The
borrower assessed the Bank's performance for preparation and quality at entry, as well as for
supervision, as highly satisfactory. The detailed comments, including some updating of data
have been included in the main text and annexes of the ICR.


(b) Cofinanciers

None.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



None.




                                              22

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

6.2.1 The PDO was to improve the irrigation system performance in nine IDs on the Guanzhong
Plain by: (a) increasing agricultural production; (b) increasing net incomes of farmers within the
project area; and (c) strengthening organizational, technical and financial aspects of irrigation
management.

6.2.2The KPIs were: (a) additional areas receiving full irrigation; (b) adequate levels and
collection rates of water charges; (c) increased agricultural production; (d) higher net
incomes of project beneficiaries; and (e) improved water use efficiency.

6.2.3 The project therefore set out to: (a) increase grain production to 4.4 million tons/
year (a 20% increase over the average production during the period 1991-96); (b)
increase employment opportunities through the expansion of irrigated area by about
50,000 ha and improvement to full irrigation of about 180,000 ha of existing partially
irrigated area; (c) increase incomes for farmers in the project area; (d) increased
cultivation of cash crops with higher net returns; (e) introduce better irrigation methods
leading to improved and more efficient water use; (f) support irrigation management
reforms aimed at improving the organizational, financial and technical sustainability of
O&M; and (g) provide greater involvement of farmers in the management of lower
systems through the formation and fostering of WUAs and delegated responsibility for
O&M below branch canal outlets to WUAs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

No revision to either the PDOs or the KPIs was required throughout the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                      Original Target                             Actual Value

  Indicator       Baseline Value        Values (from       Formally Revised        Achieved at
                                          approval           Target Values       Completion or
                                         documents)                               Target Years
Indicator 1 : Additional Areas Receiving Full Irrigation
Value
(quantitative
or             650,900 ha           230,000 ha            194, 350 ha         195,070 ha

Qualitative)
Date
achieved       01/01/1999           05/31/1999            10/31/2002          06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %       Achievement is 100.3% of MTR revised figures
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Adequate level and collection of Water Charges
Value          (a) Water charges    (a) Water charges     (a) Water charges   (a) Water charges



                                                 23

(quantitative 0.139 RMB/m3 (b) 0.155 RMB/M3 (b) 0.150 RMB/M3 (b) 0.232 RMB/M3 (b)
or            Collection Rate      Collection Rate       Collection Rate      Collection Rate
Qualitative) 92.5%                 95.5%                 95.5%                99.1%
Date
achieved      01/01/1999           05/31/1999            10/31/2002           06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      Average water charges increased 67% and collection rates increased 2.9%
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Increased Agricultural Production
              (a) Wheat
              4.46tons/ha (b)      (a) Wheat 5.00        (a) Wheat 5.00       (a) Wheat 5.68
                                   tons/ha (b) Corn 5.8 tons/ha (b) Corn 5.8 tons/ha (b) Corn
Value         Corn 4.61 (c)        tons/ha (c) Cotton    tons/ha (c) Cotton   6.21 tons/ha (c)
(quantitative Cotton 0.59 tons/ha  0.75 tons/ha (d)      0.75 tons/ha (d)     Cotton 1.11 tons/ha
or            (d) rape 2.15        rape 2.8 tons/ha (e) rape 2.8 tons/ha (e) (d) rape 2.6 tons/ha
Qualitative)  tons/ha (e) apples
              27.44 tons/ha (f)    apples 30.00 tons/ha apples 30.00 tons/ha (e) apples 31.64

              Cabbage 53.29        (f) Cabbage 64        (f) Cabbage 64       tons/ha (f) Cabbage

              tons/ha              tons/ha               tons/ha              72.2 tons/ha

Date
achieved      01/01/1999           05/31/1999            10/31/2002           06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      Wheat production increased 27% and corn 34% over baseline production figures.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Higher net incomes of project beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative Average net          Average net income Average net income Average net income

or            household income increased to RMB          increased to RMB     increased to RMB

Qualitative)  RMB 2164/ann.        4166/ann.             4166/ann.            5606/ann.

Date
achieved      01/01/1999           05/31/1999            10/31/2002           06/30/2006

Comments      Appraisal estimate was for an increase of average house hold incomes to RMB
(incl. %      4166/ann. Actual average net household incomes at completion was
achievement) RMB5606/ann.
Indicator 5 : Improved Water Use Efficiency
Value         (a) Irrigation quota (a) Irrigation quota (a) Irrigation quota (a) Irrigation quota
(quantitative 1488M3/ha (b)        2167M3/ha (b)         2167M3/ha (b)        2092M3/ha (b)
or            Water Productivity Water Productivity Water Productivity Water Productivity
Qualitative) 1.05 RMB/m3           1.22 RMB/m3           1.22 RMB/m3          1.36 RMB/m3
Date
achieved      01/01/1999           05/31/1999            10/31/2002           06/30/2006

Comments      Water productivity increased by 29.5% over the baseline. Water use/ha was
(incl. %      slightly lower than the target due to the introduction of water saving crops and
achievement) volumetric water charges.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


   Indicator     Baseline Original Target Values           Formally      Actual Value Achieved



                                                24

                 Value       (from approval      Revised Target at Completion or Target
                               documents)             Values                Years
Indicator 1 :   Only PDO indicators above were monitored. No IOs set at PAD stage
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                           25

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     26

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                          Appraisal
              Components                Estimate (USD     Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                             M)          Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

IMPROVEMENT AND EXPANSION OF
WATER SOURCE                                     48.50               48.49        99.98

IMPROVEMENT OF MAJOR
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                              69.80               67.20        96.28

IMPROVEMENT AND EXPANSION OF
MINOR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                        39.20               34.95        89.16

IMPROVEMENT OF O & M                              5.20                6.08       116.92
TRAINING, STUDY TOURS AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                              1.80                1.75        97.22

PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                4.00               11.45       286.25
SURVEY , DESIGN AND
SUPERVISION                                       4.40               15.63       355.23

LAND ACQUISITION AND
RESETTLEMENT                                      4.80                4.37        91.04

                                                  0.00                0.00
                    Total Baseline Cost        177.70               189.92
Physical Contingencies                            9.90
Price Contingencies                             17.60
                    Total Project Costs        205.20
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.00               0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.80               0.80          0.80
              Total Financing Required         206.00               190.72



(b) Financing


                                            Appraisal
      Source of Funds           Type of                      Actual/Latest Percentage of
                              Cofinancing Estimate (USD
                                                M)        Estimate (USD M)  Appraisal

 Borrower                                            0.00              0.00
 CHINA: GOV. OF                                     73.00             72.55       99.38
 International Bank for
Reconstruction and                                  80.00             79.03       98.79
Development
 International Development
Association (IDA)                                   20.00             22.14      110.70

 LOCAL: BENEFICIARIES                               27.00             17.00       62.96




                                          27

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            28

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

       Components          Units   Original   MTR       Actual    % of
                                   Estimate  Estimate            MTR
 1. Improved and            No.       17        15        15      100
 expansion of water
 Source
    a. New storage          No.        3         3         2       67
 facilities
       (1) Reservoir and  No./MCM   1/3800    1/3800    1/3800    100
 live storage
       (2) Headworks        No.        1         1         0       0
       (3) Water           No./m    1/9481    1/9481    1/9481    100
 diversion tunnel
   b. Repair of storage     No.       14        12        13      108
 and diversion facilities
       (1) Headworks      No.B29       3         3         4      133
       (2) Reservoirs and No./MCM   7/68.81   7/68.81   7/68.81   100
 increased live storage
       (3) Main canals     No./m     1/568     1/568     1/568  100/100
       (4) Warning and      No.        1         1         1      100
 monitoring system
 2. Improvement of
 major distribution
 system
    a. Pumping stations   No./m3/s    50     52/205.44 52/205.44  100
 and capacity
    b. Main and branch     No./km   104/549   102/591  102/591  100/100
 canals
   c. Major structures      No.       21        22        22      100
    d. Main drains         No./km   25/195     6/79      6/79   100/100
 3. Improvement and         kha     226.67    194.34    195.07    100
 expansion of minor
    distribution system
    a. Improved areas       kha     177.62    153.95    155.12    101
       (1) Lateral canal   No./km  1604/2206 1432/2000 1437/2018 100/101

       (2) Lined           No./km  1604/2088 1432/1889 1437/1901 100/100

       (3) Field canal     No./km  8020/3301 7369/3035 7438/3076 101/101

       (4) Lined           No./km  8020/2982 7369/2724 7438/2748 101/101




                                    29

  b. Expended areas       kha     49.05   40.39    39.95    99
      (1) Lateral canal  No./km  512/613 471/571  465/566  99/99
      (2) Lined          No./km  512/613 471/571  465/566  99/99
      (3) Field canal    No./km 2316/871 2161/813 2129/807 99/99
      (4) Lined          No./km 2316/871 2161/813 2129/807 99/99
4.Improvement of
O&M
  a. Access road          km      32.09   41.89    41.89   100
improvement
   b. Renovation of       m2     13300    38233    38265   100
O&M buildings
   c. New technology      No.       3       3        3     100
expansion
   d. Automatic           No.       9       9        9     100
telecommunication
system
5. Training, Study
tours, Technical
Assistance
   a. Training and study
tours
      (1) national        No./    6/334  26/1489  26/1489  100
                         people
      (2) international   No./   17/156   12/134  12/134   100
                         people
   b. Technical
assistance
      (1) national        No.       7      14       14     100
      (2) international   No.       1       2        2     100
6. Land acquisition
and resettlement
   a. Acquired land       kha     217     187.5    187.5   100
areas
   b. Acquired areas of   m2     24322    24322    24322   100
buildings
  c. People relocated     No.     841      841      841    100
7. Management
system reform
   a. Laterals reformed   No./   4229//   4029//   4339/   108//
                          km/                      6518/
                          kha                       406




                                 30

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Project Benefit Estimates and Main Assumptions at Appraisal (PAD)

Comprehensive project economic and financial analysis was carried out during project
preparation and was well documented in the PAD. Benefits were foreseen from the
improvement and expansion of the irrigation systems in the 9 project IDs. A single-set of crop
budgets was prepared for all 9 project IDs for non-irrigated, partially irrigated and fully irrigated
conditions for two future scenarios, viz. without-project and with-project. Agricultural benefits
were quantified for each of the 9 project IDs by combining the crop budgets with area and
cropping pattern assumptions for non-irrigated, partially irrigated and fully irrigated conditions.
Benefits were correctly seen to be generated by a combination of institutional reform and
improvement of physical infrastructure. Financial prices used were those prevailing in the
project areas in mid 1998. World market parity prices were used for the major traded products
and fertilizers, while the economic prices of all other products and inputs were taken as their
respective financial prices, except farm labor, which was shadow priced at 67% of the actual
market price to reflect its economic opportunity cost. The major prices used in the PAD and in
the ICR re-evaluation are shown in Table 1. The re-estimated parity price calculations at ICR
are shown in Table 2.


End of Project Implementation (ICR) Benefit Estimates and Methodology.

Economic Assumptions . The economic analysis at ICR stage used the same assumptions as at
appraisal.

Economic Methodology. The ICR re-evaluation was based on a sound data base generated by the M&E
system complemented with village-level agricultural statistics. The same methodology was followed as
in PAD except that agricultural output benefits were based on crop budgets prepared from M&E data for
each of the 9 project IDs. The crop budget data were combined with the actual monitored benefited areas
which were categorized into: (i) "expansion areas" - those areas previously non-irrigated which became
irrigated as a result of project-funded works; (ii) "improved areas" - which benefited from improvements
made to the minor distribution system; and (iii) "additional benefiting areas" - those areas which were
irrigated before-project but which benefited due to project-funded activities from a greater availability of
water and a more reliable and demand-responsive irrigation delivery service.

Area Assumptions . The area assumptions used in the benefit calculations at appraisal and at the end of
project implementation, by irrigation category both without-project and with-project. Some differences
by ID are apparent, although by-and-large not that significant. Across all 9 IDs, the major differences
between the PAD and ICR evaluations are: (i) the total ID command areas were 4% lower in the PAD
compared to the ICR; and (ii) a reduced expansion area - down from 49,330 ha at appraisal to 39,120 ha
at implementation end.

Cropping Patterns, Cropping Intensities and Crop Yields. Apart from the total areas planted to
crops, the other major determinants of agricultural benefits are cropping patterns, cropping intensities
and the incremental crop yields built­in to the crop budgets. The cropping intensities/cropping patterns,
and the incremental crop yields, used at appraisal and at ICR, are shown in Tables 3 and 4 respectively.
In summary, the data shows: (i) cropping intensities increased substantially more than anticipated in 5 of



                                                  31

the 9 IDs, while in the remaining 4, the cropping intensities are less than anticipated; (ii) the shift to
higher valued crops (vegetables and fruit) has been significantly greater than anticipated at appraisal; (iii)
the same crop yield increments were used for all IDs at appraisal, whereas different crop yield
increments have been used in the ICR, with some IDs recording higher yields, while others are lower,
depending on the crop and the ID; (iv) the appraisal simplistically assumed fully irrigated yields would
be achieved for all crops for the "with project" situation. The amount of data available allowed the ICR
evaluation to be in more detail. The evaluation considered the expansion area, improved areas and
additional benefiting areas within each ID, the particular crop planted and the actual realized incremental
yields.

Combined impact on net value addition from agriculture . The impact on net economic value
addition of the different price, cropping pattern and yield assumptions made at appraisal and at the ICR
re-evaluation, are summarised in Table 4 and show a 66% increase at ICR over PAD. Although the two
evaluations are not directly comparable because of the different categorization used for the benefiting
areas, across all IDs, the total net value added from incremental agricultural output per year (2006 real
economic prices) at full development (assumed to be from year 6 and year 11 in PAD and ICR
respectively) is RMB 444.47 million (appraisal) compared to RMB 735.65 million (ICR). The value
addition from the expansion areas was over estimated at appraisal (45% down), but the added value
estimates for the already irrigated areas were underestimated at appraisal.

Total Project Costs and Distribution by Components

Total project costs, inclusive of physical and price contingencies but exclusive of interest during
construction, were estimated at appraisal at US$ 178.6 million, while the actual costs incurred
were US$ 190.72 million. The distribution of the project costs by component at appraisal and
end of implementation are shown in Table 7 and also in annex 3. Costs incurred in Component
1 on improving and expanding water sources were almost exactly those that were estimated at
appraisal. The costs incurred on Components 2 and 3, improving the major and minor
distribution systems respectively, were each reduced 4 percentage points, and resources were
allocated to Components 6 and 7, respectively project management, and survey, design and
supervision. Components 6 and 7 were increased respectively 4 and 6 percentage points.
Increases in the allocation of resources to Components 6 and 7 were justified as this resulted in
better coordination and monitoring of project progress, timely use of M&E information, and
higher quality construction. The cost allocations to Components 4, 5 and 8 remained essentially
unchanged.

Economic Returns

The overall project economic return estimates at appraisal and at end of project implementation
are compared in Table 6. The PAD EIRR was estimated at 26%, while the ICR re-estimated
EIRR is 19%. The much higher than anticipated disbursement rate in the first 2 years of the
project, and the slower than anticipated time needed to reach full development and to fully
realize the incremental agricultural benefits attributed to the project, are the main reasons for the
lower EIRR. While the economic impact of the project is lower than anticipated at appraisal,
the project has still had a significant economic impact. The NPV at 12% discount rate expressed
in 2006 prices was RMB 1,042.11 million at appraisal and RMB 787.21 at ICR. While the
substantial decline in the world prices of wheat, maize and cotton that occurred during project
implementation have sharply reduced the economic net value added from these commodities,


                                                  32

the positive impacts of higher than expected increases in cropping intensities and crop yields,
and greater than anticipated shifts to higher value crops, reduced the impact of these slumping
commodity prices. The EIRR estimates at appraisal and at end of project implementation by
each ID are given in Table 7.

Financial Returns

Appraisal estimates. Financial analysis was carried out at appraisal to: (i) determine the likely impact
of the project on the financial sustainability of each ID; and (ii) gauge the impact of improved irrigation
services on typical farmers, including higher water charges necessary for long-term financial
sustainability of the existing and improved irrigation infrastructure. At appraisal, it was anticipated that
management reform at lateral level and below would lead to a high level of transparency and discipline
in all transactions and payments with significant efficiency gains. Management reforms combined with
infrastructural improvements were expected to allow each of the IDs to sell more water at lower
overhead cost per unit of water sold. This was expected to generate sufficient income over time to fully
cover the operational costs and to maintain the irrigation system such that its performance would not
deteriorate over time. Financial analysis at appraisal indicated that water charges for farmers in some
cases would be significantly lower than those existing at the time, and that the income to IDs was
estimated to almost triple. Farmers' incomes were expected to increase significantly between RMB
1,500 to RMB 4,200, increasing as much as threefold.

ICR estimates. Financial analysis at ICR involved: (i) changes in O&M expenditure, water pricing and
collection rates by ID; (ii) changes in incomes and costs of water user associations; (iii) farmers' net
incomes by water reform model; and (iv) the evolution during project implementation of farmers'
incomes and production costs. While the financial impacts of the project have not been as great as were
optimistically predicted at appraisal, they have nevertheless been substantial. Farmers, particularly the
members of WUAs, have benefited substantially despite higher water charges. IDs have benefited
through higher allocations of funds for O&M, increased water charges and collection rates and a 23%
reduction in staffing (down from 6,276 to 4,809 staff).



    1. O&M, water prices and collection rates. Substantial increases in O&M expenditure from 2000
         to 2005 have occurred ranging from 34% to 414% (Table 10). Water prices have in fact
         increased in all of the IDs (Table 9). The increases have varied by ID; the average increase has
         been 51%. Collection rates are reported to have increased in 8 of the IDs, while in YMW 100%
         collection was reported at appraisal and at ICR. On average collection rates have increased from
         96% to 99%.
    2. Water User Associations (WUAs). WUAs are functioning well. Financial analysis of a sample of
         WUAs from the FJS Irrigation District (Table 10) shows that over the 3 year period 2003-05
         these WUAs have been well managed financially viable entities.
    3. Farmers' incomes and costs. The M&E survey of 800 households has provided detailed data on
         the changes that have occurred during project implementation on farm incomes and off-farm
         incomes, and production costs. Net farm incomes from 2000 to 2005 have on average more than
         doubled, by an average 128% (Table 11). As a result of improved irrigation services, farmers
         have shifted to higher valued crops and have made greater use of modern technologies. For
         example, expenditure on seeds and fertilizer has increased over the same period 205% and 177%
         respectively. Much greater use has been made of machinery, for harvesting in particular
         (increased by 162%). Very interesting results have emerged comparing the various key physical
         and financial indicators by reform management system (Table 12). The best-performing reform
         system is the WUA model where net farm incomes and total household incomes (net farm


                                                  33

        income plus off-farm income) have increased by 72% and 22% respectively compared to farmers
        on laterals where there has been no management system reform. For the other reform models,
        over the same period comparing each of these models to the sampled farms on unreformed
        laterals, net farm incomes have increased on average much less between -8% to 29%, and total
        household incomes also considerably less between -10% to 4%.

 Table 1. Comparison of Major Agricultural Input and Output Prices
                                    Used
                       Appraisal Compared to ICR
                                   (RMB)

                       Unit         Financial                  Economic

                                 PAD       ICR             PAD         ICR

 Wheat                  kg         1.30       1.20            1.11       0.89

 Maize                  kg         1.10       1.00            0.92       0.82

 Cotton                 kg        11.00      11.24           11.47       8.82

 Rape Seed              kg         2.30       2.34            1.96       2.34

 Vegetables             kg         0.60       0.60            0.60       0.60

 Apples                 kg         0.80       1.14            0.80       1.14

 Nitrogen               kg         2.00       2.40            2.06       1.78

 Phosphate              kg         1.80       2.20            0.00       1.59

 Potash                 kg         3.20       3.84            3.20       3.84

 Manure                 ton       20.00      25.00           20.00      25.00

 Pesticide              kg        20.00      30.00           20.00      27.00

 Labor                  day       15.00      22.50           10.00      14.85


______________________________________________________

           Table 2: Re-estimated Import/Export Partly Prices (2010 projections expressed in 2005 prices)1/

                  Unit       Export Price Parities                          Import Price Parities
                                           Cotton                               Cotton
                             Cotton Oil    Cake          Wheat       Maize      Lint g/         Urea        TSP
                                                       (U.S. Atl.    (U.S.       (U.S.
                            (W.Europe)    (S.Korea)       port)      Gulf)       Gulf)     (NW.Europe)    (N.Africa)
 World
 Market
 Reference
 Price
 World market
 prices a/       US$/ton            758          166         108         105       1,564            122         107
 Quality
 adjustment         %               0%           0%           0%         0%         30%             0%           0%
 Ocean freight   US$/ton            -25          -20         +25         +20        +45             +48         +42
 CIF/FOB
 price           US$/ton            733          146         133         125       1,140            170         149
 Internal
 Transport,
 Trade and
 Processing
 Costs /2:
 CIF/FOB
 price (Yuan)
 b/             Yuan/ton          5,787        1,152       1,052         986       9,003          1,343      1,174
 Port charges
 c/             Yuan/ton            -36          -36         +36         +36        +74             +42         +42
 Trade
 margins        Yuan/ton          -579          -115                                               +134       +117



                                                    34

    (10% of
    CIF/FOB
    prices)
    Wholesaler to
    port d/             Yuan/ton                 -187             -187
    Producer to
    wholesaler          Yuan/ton                  -37              -40
    Port to
    wholesaler          Yuan/ton                                                                                                  +187            +202
    Wholesaler to
    retailer e/         Yuan/ton                                                                                                    +40             +37
    Retailer to
    major
    consumption
    place               Yuan/ton                                                 -187           -187           -243
    Conversion
    rate                    %                    17%              53%          100%            100%           100%                100%            100%
    Farm to/from
    retailer
    (12km) f/           Yuan/ton                  -12              -12            -12             -12            -12                +12             +12
    Processing
    costs               Yuan/ton                  -22              -49
    Economic
    farm gate
    price               Yuan/ton                  807              348            889            823          8,821               1,759           1,585
    Financial
    farm gate
    price               Yuan/ton                  800              450         1,300           1,100        11,000                2,000           1,800
    Conversion
    factor                  %                   101%              77%            68%            75%            80%                  88%            88%


Notes on Table 2 below:


1/ Based on appraisal estimations adjusted by World Bank real price forecasts for 2010 compared to 2005 as at September 2006 for each respective
commodity - e.g. wheat US$/t=130 in 2010 and US$/t=141 in 2005 - therefore adjustment factor = 130/141=0.92.


2/Internal costs increased 12% to adjust for domestic inflation between appraisal and end of project implementation based on all of Shaanxi Province CP
index.


a/ Basic assumption of price projections are taken from World Bank Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries, a World Bank Quarterly. Price
for wheat refers to US Soft Red Winter No.2 F.o.b, 1997/98 price, using the relative price increases as projected by the World Bank for Canadian Western
Red Spring. Price for cotton lint refers to A index quality Liverpool, Oct. 1998 quotation, using the same relative price increases as projected by the
World Bank. Prices for Cotton Oil and Cake are average prices of 1998 published by FAO.


b/ Exchange rate of 8.3 Yuan per US$ at appraisal; 7.9 Yuan per US$ at ICR.


c/ Local price used.


d/ Dalian-Xi'an approximately 1200km; 0.165 Yuan per km and ton local price; 30% additional adjustment for bulky products.


e/ 0.3 Yuan per ton per km local price; 30% adjustment for bulky products.


f/ 1.0 Yuan per ton per km local price; 30% adjusted for bulky products.


g/ One ton of seed cotton equals 380kg lint, 55kg oil, 400kg cake and 165kg waste; a weighted conversion factor for seed of 0.8 is used.


___________________________________________________________




                                                                       35

Table 3. Production of major crops by ID.

                                           Before Project
                                                  2/                  After Project

                                                                  PAD             ICR

 Baojixia Irrigation District (BJX)
   Wheat                                        82%               75%             80%
   Maize                                        66%               69%             65%
   Cotton                                        1%                 5%             1%
   Rape seed                                     2%                 5%             1%
   Vegetables                                    4%                 5%             6%
   Apples                                       12%               10%             13%

   Cropping intensity                           166%             169%             166%

 Jinghuiqu Irrigation District (JHQ)
   Wheat                                        77%               75%             78%
   Maize                                        63%               70%             66%
   Cotton                                        9%               10%             10%
   Rape seed                                     5%                 5%             7%
   Vegetables                                    3%                 3%             6%
   Apples                                       10%               10%             10%

   Cropping intensity                           166%             174%             177%

 Jiaokou Irrigation District (JKC)
   Wheat                                        71%               75%             63%
   Maize                                        57%               69%             53%
   Cotton                                       28%               15%             35%
   Rape seed                                     4%                 5%             0%
   Vegetables                                    3%                 3%             8%
   Apples                                        5%                 9%             7%

   Cropping intensity                           167%             176%             166%

 Taoqupo Irrigation District (TQP)
   Wheat                                        73%               68%             73%
   Maize                                        44%               49%             66%
   Cotton                                        0%                 0%             0%
   Rape seed                                    10%                 8%             6%
   Vegetables                                    2%                 4%             6%
   Apples                                        4%               15%             15%

   Cropping intensity                           133%             143%             166%

 Shitouhe Irrigation District (STH)
   Wheat                                        78%               76%             69%
   Maize                                        58%               76%             66%
   Cotton                                        0%                 0%             0%
   Rape seed                                     7%               10%              8%
   Vegetables                                    3%                 2%             3%
   Apples                                        8%                 8%            24%

   Cropping intensity                           153%             171%             170%


 1/ On irrigated land based on village agricultural production statistics within IDs




                                                           36

 2/ District data averages of 1998 and 1999 (various Irrigation District ICR reports)

 3/ Before project cropping patterns based on 1998 District data


____________________________________________________

Table 3 (Continued)


                                             Before Project 2/             After Project

                                                                         PAD          ICR
 Fengjiashan Irrigation District (FJS)
 /3
   Wheat                                           82%                   75%          91%
   Maize                                           58%                   47%          65%
   Cotton                                           0%                    0%           0%
   Rape seed                                        9%                   15%           4%
   Vegetables                                       3%                    3%           3%
   Apples                                           9%                    9%           5%

   Cropping intensity                              161%                 148%          168%
 Yangmaowan Irrigation District
 (YMW)
   Wheat                                           65%                   71%          64%
   Maize                                           48%                   71%          66%
   Cotton                                           0%                    0%           0%
   Rape seed                                        5%                    6%           3%
   Vegetables                                       0%                    3%           1%
   Apples                                          31%                   10%          32%

   Cropping intensity                              148%                 160%          166%

 Luohuiqu Irrigation District (LHQ)
   Wheat                                           67%                   70%          18%
   Maize                                           55%                   62%          16%
   Cotton                                          19%                   20%          44%
   Rape seed                                        4%                    6%           0%
   Vegetables                                       4%                    3%          10%
   Apples                                          13%                   14%          29%

   Cropping intensity                              162%                 175%          117%

 Shibaochuan Irrigation District (SBC)
   Wheat                                           50%                   61%          50%
   Maize                                           20%                   51%          30%
   Cotton                                           0%                    0%          10%
   Rape seed                                       17%                    6%          25%
   Vegetables                                       0%                    5%           0%
   Apples                                          20%                   10%          20%

   Cropping intensity                              107%                 133%          135%


___________________________________________________________

                   Table 4: Annual Net Addition of Incremental Agricultural Output Valued at Farm Gate /a
                              End of Project Implementation Compared to Appraisal Estimates
                                                RMB million - 2005 real prices




                                                          37

                  Appraisal Estimates /b                                End of Project Implementation                 % Change
                                                                                                 Additional           ICR to
        Rainfed to            Partial to          Total      Expansion       Improved                 Be-      Total  PAD

      Full Irrigation      Full Irrigation                     Areas            Areas         befitting Areas


           301.29              143.18            444.47        167.21           403.55              164.89     735.65   66%


         % change ICR compared to appraisal /c                  -45%                                297%


    a/ Full development was estimated from year 6 at appraisal and from year 11 at ICR
    b/ PAD estimates inflated by applying CPI Index for Shaanxi Province (1998 to 2005
    = 1.0375)
    c/ Total of improved and additional benefiting areas at ICR is compared to total area of partial to full
    irrigation at appraisal


_____________________________________________________________

                        Table 5: Percentage of Total Project Costs by Component

Components                                                                                Appraisal %          Actual %
                                                                                               of total         of total
1. Improvement and expansion of water source                                                       27              26
2. Improvement of major distribution system                                                        39              35
3. Improvement and expansion of minor distribution system                                          22              18
4. Improvement of O & M                                                                              3              3
5. Training, study tours and technical assistance                                                    1              1
6. Project Management                                                                                2              6
7. Survey, design and supervision                                                                    2              8
8. Land acquisition and resettlement                                                                 3              2
9. IBRD front-end fee                                                                                1              1
Total                                                                                             100              100

___________________________________________________

 Table 6: Net Benefit Economic Cash Flows (2006 Prices)
 Appraisal Compared to End of Implementation
 RMB million 2005 Real Prices

 Year                 Economic Cash Flow               ICR as % PAD

                     PAD              ICR


        1           -180.15               -421.33            234%

        2           -242.67               -343.08            141%

        3           -258.30               -287.70            111%

        4           -117.04               -106.51            91%

        5            -33.28   -          30.34               91%

        6            355.75              74.98               21%

        7            444.69             290.36               65%

        8            444.69             424.84               96%



                                                             38

        9           444.69       489.42        110%

       10           444.69       544.57        122%

       11           444.69       557.78        125%

       12           444.69       560.71        126%

       13           444.69       563.64        127%

       14           444.69       566.57        127%

       15           444.69       569.50        128%

       16           444.69       572.43        129%

       17           444.69       575.36        129%

       18           444.69       578.27        130%

       19           444.69       581.22        131%

       20           444.69       584.18        131%

 NPV @ 12%         1042.11       787.21        76%

 EIRR                26%             19%       73%


______________________________________________________

                               Table 7: EIRRs by Irrigation District
 Appraisal Compared to End of Implementation

 ID                                  EIRR                                    % change ICR

                                     PAD                     ICR              Compared to PAD

 BJX                                  24%                    14%                   -42%
 JHQ                                  34%                    26%                   -24%
 JKC                                  20%                    19%                   -5%
 TQP                                  19%                    12%                   -37%
 STH                                  38%                    32%                   -16%
 FJS                                  37%                    25%                   -32%
 YMW                                  15%                    15%                    0%
 LHQ                                  27%                    32%                   19%
 SBC                                  18%                    16%                   -11%

 Total Project                        26%                    19%                   -27%




________________________________________________________




                      Table 8: O&M Expenditure by Irrigation District 2000-2005

 Irrigation District                           Yuan x 104                           % increase

                            2000     2001   2002      2003      2004    2005      (2000 to 2005)

 BJX                       2720.9  2757.9  3837.5    2379.0    2714.9   4517.1         66%
 JHQ                        978.4  1151.0  1238.0     773.0     858.0   1817.0         86%
 JKC                       2425.0  2611.0  2564.0    2255.0    2133.0   3399.0         40%
 TQP                        551.5   813.1   766.3     878.3    1129.8   1199.1         117%
 STH                        77.8    134.3   100.1     110.6     169.1   399.5          414%



                                               39

 FJS                            582.5    686.6      978.7     864.6     1106.7    1243.8           114%
 YMW                            288.7    280.7      399.7     296.6      499.9     498.9           73%
 LHQ                            1131.0  1389.0     1305.0     1375.0    1305.0    1897.0           68%

 SBC                            849.6    673.8      737.7     638.2      906.3    1135.1           34%


 Source: Nine Irrigation Department Implementation Completion Reports (excludes
 depreciation)




______________________________________________________


 Table 9: Water Prices at Appraisal and at Project Implementation Completion and
 Collection Rates



 Irrigation District                              Water Price (Yuan/m3)            Collection Rate (%)

                                                   PAD           ICR               PAD           ICR

 BJX                                               0.116         0.245             97.3          99.8

 JHQ                                               0.120         0.170             93.0          97.0

 JKC                                               0.213         0.256             97.8          99.9

 TQP                                               0.115         0.200             96.0          98.0

 STH                                               0.095         0.130             86.4          98.0

 FJS                                               0.075         0.200             99.0          100.0

 YMW                                               0.166         0.278             100.0         100.0

 LHQ                                               0.220         0.300             95.1          99.8

 SBC                                               0.230         0.330             95.0          99.0

 Averages                                          0.150         0.232             95.5          99.1

 % changes                                                       67%                              4%




   Table 10: Financial Analysis of Two Sample WUAs in Fengjiashan Irrigation District
                                                 (FJS)

 Items / Indicators                                                                  Yuan

                                                                              2003   2004      2005

 WUA Upper Reach No.7 Branch South Main Canal

      Inflows

          - water charge retention                                           61,214  81,769   66,356

                                      Total inflows                          61,214  81,769   66,356

      Outflows

           - wages                                                           21,048  32,952   23,224

           - maintenance                                                     24,626  37,659   24,326

           - office expenses                                                  534     856     1,214

           - irrigation expenses                                             14,000  7,112    10,137




                                                       40

          - other                                                               1,657      861     1,612

                                        Total outflows                          61,865   79,440   60,513

                                         Balance                                 -651     1,678    7,521


WUA Lower Reach of No. 11 Branch North Main Canal

     Inflows

          - water charge retention                                              13,350   21,690   19,260

                                          Total inflows                         13,350   21,690   19,260

     Outflows

          - wages                                                               8,712     8,712    8,712

          - maintenance                                                         3,100     4,500    4,350

          - office expenses                                                      330       350      341

          - irrigation expenses                                                  900      1,450    1,280

          - other                                                               2,970     4,600    3,069

                                        Total outflows                          16,012   18,162   17,752

                                         Balance                                -2,662     866     2,374




                        Table 11: Changes in Farm Incomes and Costs 2000-2005 (RMB per household) a/

Year             Farm Income                                         Farm Input Costs b/
                                    Water                                                Agriculture            Total
              Gross       Net       fees      Seed     Fertilizer Pesticide Machinery    tax          Other c/  Costs

2000           3024       1533        229        51      269        65         107          339         431      1152
2001           3150       1549        270       113      455        129        181          335         108      1266
2002           3648       1983        290       141      505        133        197          229         171      1437
2003           3818       2256        221       119      512        142        172          245         151      1317
2004           4984       3323        274       125      587        155        183          167         169      1494
2005           5385       3508        301       157      746        174        279           0          220      1877
Average        4001       2358        265       118      514        133        187          219         211      1430
%
increases
2000 to
2005           78%        129%        31%     205%      177%       166%        162%        -100%       -49%      63%
a/ Based on 2005 data of 4.65 persons per household
b/ Excludes the cost of family labor
c/ Includes hired labor
d/ all figures nominal


                Table 12: Farm Monitoring Survey Results Comparing Laterals Under WUAs top Other Reform
                                 Management System and Unreformed Laterals (2000-2005)a/

Key indicators                      Unit    Contract                                                          Mean

                                                        Lease     Auction   WUA        JSC    Unreformed    Reformed

Cropping intensity                  %          1.56                                                           1.59
Wheat yield                         t/ha       5.29      1.42      1.88     1.52       1.57       1.66        5.59
Corn yield                          t/ha       5.57      5.68      5.96     5.81       5.19       5.21        5.61
Gross farm income                   Y/mu        754      5.92      5.99     5.70       4.85       4.97        899
Total farm costs /b                 Y/mu        313      899       919       983       941        845         358
Water fees                          Y/mu         50      325       386       377       390        375          63




                                                           41

Net farm income                    Y/mu         440        68          83           56      60     58        541
Net farm income per household
/c                                 Y/HH        3816        574        533          606     550     470      4867
Off-farm income per household
/c                                 Y/HH        4265       5323       4005         7126     4065   4139      4265
Total household income             Y/HH        8081       3424       5337         3873     4425   4857      9132
% change of net farm income /d     %           -8%        8746       9342         10999    8490   8997       18%
% change of off-farm income /d     %           -12%       29%         -3%          72%     -2%     0%       -12%

% change of total HH income /d     %           -10%       -30%        10%         -20%     -9%     0%        2%

a/ All figures nominal values

b/ Averages over 6 years

d/ Excludes cost of family labor

e/ Based on an average of 4.65 persons per household from 2005 data of the 9 project IDs




                        Table 13: Crop Yields and Cropping Intensities in 18 Control Villages
Crop                     Unit      1998      1999      2000     2001       2002       2003  2004  2005 % change

                                                                                                       2005/1998

18 ("Control") Villages Outside of Project Areas

Wheat                    kg/ha     2979      2845      2965     3295       3153       3420  3596  3782 27%

Maize                    kg/ha     2964      2707      2851     3268       3078       3492  3556  3798 28%

Cotton                   kg/ha      672       635       675      774         801       757   754   747 11%

Rape seed                kg/ha     1745      1642      1747     1928       1727       1656  1698  1744  0%

Vegetables               kg/ha    62974     79557     76901    78084      68388      81256 83009 82690 31%

Apples                   kg/ha    20439     18859     20101    21974      19941      24815 24507 23397 14%

Cropping intensity       %          127       128       127      127         130       128   129   130  2%

Average change in crop yields (across all crops 2005 compared to 1998)                                 19%


Source: Village survey by Project IDs as quoted in PMO ICR supplementary data report




            Table 14.
        CPI Figures for Shaanxi Province

                Previous year
 Year                                            1998=100
                 (1996) =100

 1997                  104.8
 1998                   98.4                           100
 1999                   97.8                         97.80



                                                           42

2000  99.5    97.31
2001   101    98.28
2002  98.9    97.20
2003  101.7   98.86
2004  103.1   101.92
2005  101.8   103.75




                  43

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                    Title                  Unit       Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Josef Ernstberger      Consultant               EASSD               Agro-Economist
Engelbert L. Kramer    Consultant               EASRE               Former TTL

Xiaolan Wang           Senior Operations
                       Officer                  EASRE               Financial Management

Supervision/ICR

Yueyuan Ding           Consultant               EASRE              Irrigation & Drainage
                                                                   Spe

Yi Dong                Sr Financial
                       Management Specia        EAPCO              Financial Management

Josef Ernstberger      Consultant               EASSD               Agro-Economist
Shaoyuan Feng          Consultant               EASRE              Irrigation & Drainage

Xiaokai Li             Sr Water Resources
                       Spec.                    SASAR              former TTL

Houbin Liu             Consultant               EASRE              Irrigation Mgmt Reform
                                                                   Sp
Jinan Shi              Sr Procurement Spec.     EAPCO              Procurement
Geoffrey Spencer       Sr Irrigation Engineer   EASRE              Task Team Leader

Xiaolan Wang           Senior Operations
                       Officer                  EASRE               Financial Management

Peishen Wang           Environmental Spec.      EASRE               Environmental Specialist

Songling Yao           Social Development
                       Spec.                    EASSO               Social Development

Ximing Zhang           Water Resources Spec.    EASRE               Water
Jing Zhu               Consultant               EASRE
Youlan Zou             Consultant               EASUR              Sr. Resettlement Spec

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived            DO              IP        Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/10/1999               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                             0.03
2   12/15/1999               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                             0.83
3   05/08/2000               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                             7.37
4   05/11/2000               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                             7.37
5   11/03/2000               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            12.06
6   06/19/2001               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            18.45
7   12/11/2001               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            25.41
8   05/31/2002               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            34.90
9   11/22/2002               Satisfactory    Satisfactory                            40.95



                                             44

10 06/11/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            50.78
11 11/10/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            60.63
12 05/06/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            71.05
13 12/06/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            78.36
14 05/06/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            85.10
15 10/05/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            88.90
16 06/28/2006               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            95.00

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                      consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY98                                                          176.56
                    FY99                                                          181.33
                    FY00                                                            9.55
                    FY01                                                            0.00
                    FY02                                                            0.00
                    FY03                                                            0.00
                    FY04                                          1                 3.21
                    FY05                                                            0.00
                    FY06                                                            0.00
                    FY07                                                            0.00
                                        Total:                    1               370.65
Supervision/ICR
                    FY98                                                            0.00
                    FY99                                                           13.09
                    FY00                                         19                65.59
                    FY01                                         18                57.91
                    FY02                                         16               132.72
                    FY03                                         11                39.78
                    FY04                                         19                87.01
                    FY05                                         12                60.56
                    FY06                                          8                97.07
                    FY07                                         13                90.22
                                        Total:                  116               643.95




                                            45

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings           Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Highly Satisfactory  Government:       Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory         Implementing
                                             Agency/Agencies:  Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory         Performance:      Highly Satisfactory




                                            46

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not applicable.




                                       47

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not applicable.




                                  48

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Dear Mr. Spencer,

Greetings!

We have received Bank's ICR (draft) and conducted careful read and check of the data it
contains. We found the ICR (draft) comprehensive, brief but to the point. It gives an all-rounded
summary of achievements of the GIIP and analyzes the shortcomings of the Project in project
design, so it is of high quality. We have no objection to the ICR (draft).

Regarding Bank's performance as was mentioned in relevant reports, our evaluation toward this
is highly satisfactory, as was concluded clearly in our ICR submitted to Bank in September.

We found that in your ICR several figures need corrections, please see the remarks.

Revision of our ICR has been basically finished and the revised version can be submitted to the
Bank on around 25 of this month.

Thanks.

Standing Vice Director
GIIP PMO of Shaanxi Province



Date: Nov.15, 2006




                                                49

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No co-financiers or partners.




                                    50

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. Feasibility Study Report October 1997
2. Supplementary FSR March 1998, Xian
3. PIP and Annexes November 1998
4. Project RAP September 1998 Shaanxi Guanzhong
5. Final Monitoring Report on Land Acquisition and Resettlement, January 2005, Hohai
University
6. Summary Report on Land Acquisition and Resettlement, ICR PPMO, September 2006
7. Project EIA December 1998
8. Environmental Management Summary Report, ICR PPMO, September 2006
9. DSRP Report, July 1998
10. Summary Report on Dam Safety, ICR PPMO, September 2006
11. Irrigation System Management Reform Report, March 1998
12. Various National and Provincial level policy guidelines and plans on rural development,
Main System Reform in IDs, and in WUAs
12 (a). Guidelines on Further Strengthening Rural Work and Improving Comprehensive
Agricultural Productivity" State Counci l Document No.1, 2005.
12 (b). Guidelines on Boosting New Socialist Countryside. State Council Document No.1, 2006.
12 (c). Guidelines for Carry out Strategic Arrangement of Boosting Construction of New
Socialist Countryside of Central Go vernment", 18 March 2006, Ministry of Agriculture.
12 (d). Guidelines on Management System Reform of Water Resources Engineering Doc #45,
2002
12 (e). Implementation Plan for Management System Reform of Water Resources Engineering,
GoS Document No.92, 2004
12 (f). Approved Plan for the Institutional Reform of Fengjiasha Reservoir Management Bureau,
Document No.127, 2006, Baoji City Water Resources Bureau, Shaanxi Province.
12 (g). National Policy Guidelines on Strengthening Construction of WUAs. MWR, NDRC and
MCA joint Document No. 502, 2005
12 (h). Provincial level "Guidelines on Carrying out Policy of Strengthening Construction of
WUAs MWR, NDRC and MCA", Docu ment No.33, 2005, jointly issued by PWCB, PDRC and
PCAB.
12 (i). Implementation Plan for Entirely Scaling-up WUAs in Water Conservation Project in
Medium Sized Irrigation District s in Comprehensive Agriculture Development" Document
No.174, issued by MWR and State Office of Comprehensive Agricultural Developmen t, 2006.




                                                51

Annex 13. Additional Annexes
13.1 Management of Safeguard Issues

1. The PPMO and the ID PMOs dealt effectively with the management of the three
key safeguard issues through action and mitigation plans as follows:

Environment Impacts and Mitigation Measures (OP 4.01)

2. An EIA, including an EMP was prepared during the Project preparation/appraisal in
1999. The EMP was used as an effective tool during project implementation. The EMP
was updated in 2003 to strengthen the need for better environmental monitoring within
the project areas. All the agreed actions and tasks contained in the EMP were completed
and a separate environmental ICR was prepared by the PPMO in September 2006.

3. A system of environmental management throughout the project from the PMO to
contractor was setup to conduct the EMP. Regarding constructional sites, the main
actions related to environmental management rested with the contractors who followed
the concrete environmental items in contracts, with instructions from the PMO and
IDPMO. Environmental monitoring set forth in the EMP was implemented by
experienced agencies, who concluded in their monitoring reports that there were no
obvious adverse environmental impacts resulted from the project implementation. The
relevant monitoring mainly included (i) influence on downstream areas from increase of
irrigation water; (ii) soil salinization; (iii) over exploitation of underground water; (iv)
agricultural ecology change; and (v) irrigation water quality. Some continuing
environmental monitoring actions in operation stage of the project have been specified in
the borrower's ICR and will be implemented by the responsible ID.

Dam Safety (OP 4.37)

4. An International DSRP was established during project preparation and together with a
domestic dam panel to screen dam safety for all the 12 dams serving the project. At
appraisal and during implementation, the DSRP conducted three major interventions on
dam safety issues. The panel's guidance and recommendations on the technical and
procedural aspects of the management of the dam safety program were timely, well
received and fully integrated into design and construction activities. The DRSP assisted
with the content, editing and review of two key documents produced for each of the 12
dams, namely a Dam Safety Plan and Dam Operation and Maintenance and Emergency
Preparedness Manual. The international expertise and experience was very effective and
the dam safety process followed under the project has been adopted by the PWRCB as
the standard for all dams under their control.

Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12)

5. Involuntary resettlement was effectively managed through a RAP, prepared in 1999
and through well resourced and trained resettlement offices. All resettlement actions
were completed by December 2005 and a separate Resettlement ICR was prepared by the


                                                 52

PPMO. The following table summarizes the land acquisition, affected household and
displaced persons information for the project:




      Subproject     Acquire LandRelocated HouseholdDisplaced Person Total cost
                          Mu                HH               persons      10,000 Yuan
 Linjiacun                    1658                  217               841         2533
 Ganhe                         831                     0                 0         709
 Luohui                          59                    0                 0         149
 Others                        264                     0                 0         240
 Actual Final Total           2812                  217               841         3631
 Agreed RAP                   3190                  217               841         3540

6. The agreed RAP was closely implemented, including adherence to the principles and
compensation rates payable and the Hohai University provided third-party independent
monitoring. Regular supervision and monitoring by the PPMO and by the third party
monitor ensured compliance of actions under the RAP and the satisfactory rehabilitation
of households and livelihood of the displaced persons. The adequate restoration of
income and standard of living of the affected households was also confirmed by the
monitor. The affected households were essentially satisfied with the outcome of the
resettlement actions under the project.




                                           53

