Report No. PIC1664
Project Name              China-National Highway II Project (@#)
(Guangdong-Hunan Highway Corridor)
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Transportation
Project ID                CNPE3654
Borrower                  People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency       Guangdong and Hunan Provincial
Communications Departments
Date this PID Prepared    March 27, 1996
Appraisal Date            May 1996
Board Date                December 17, 1996
Poverty                   Not Applicable
Tentative Project Financing Plan
IBRD                   US$ 400.0 m
Central Government     US$ 152.8 m
Guangdong Province     US$ 385.3 m
Hunan Province         US$ 213.5 m
Total Project Cost    US$1,151.5 m
Country and Sector Background
1.      China's economic development since the opening of its economy
in the late 1970s has resulted in a 9.5 percent average annual rate
of economic growth. Key facets of this growth are rapidly
increasing domestic and foreign trade as well as increasing
personal mobility and consumption of energy. These, in turn, have
caused the demand for transport to surge. Supply capacity, however,
is constrained and this is now being recognized as one of the most
serious bottlenecks to future economic growth and efficiency. In
particular, motorization is growing rapidly but road transport, for
historical reasons, has not been widely developed in much of China,
outside its cities. The road network ranks among the sparsest in
the world relative to geographic area or population and is quite
unsafe.
2.      At the central level, the basic strategy is to develop a
National Trunk Highway System (NTHS). The Ministry of
Communications (MOC) is in charge of planning the NTHS, consisting
of 12 interprovincial trunk expressways, with a total length of
some 30,000 km and connecting 95 major Chinese cities. While giving
priority to two North-South and two East-West corridors ("two
verticals and two horizontals"), the Beijing-Zhuhai (Jingzhu)
Expressway, which is one of the "two verticals", constitutes the
highest priority corridor in this program. This expressway crosses
the provinces of Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, and Guangdong over a
distance of approximately 2,500 km and will connect, once



completed, Beijing with Guangdong's fast growing Pearl River Delta,
and Hong Kong. It is designed as a high-grade, high-performance
facility, at a minimum four lane standard, fully access controlled,
and will be operated throughout as a toll highway. Jingzhu is
scheduled for substantial completion by the year 2000. At the
provincial/regional level, the strategy is to concentrate on
network maintenance and the expansion and improvement of provincial
and rural road networks currently totaling more than 1 million km,
to provide greater mobility and to stimulate socio-economic
development, particularly in less developed areas.
3.      In terms of highway and road transport policy, growing
attention is being paid to removing administrative barriers to
interprovincial trade and to redefining the Central Government's
role in transport, in light of rapid administrative
decentralization and growing private sector involvement in highway
development and road transport services. Provincial and municipal
governments are expected to continue mobilizing most investment
resources required, including access to private investment and
capital markets, and to seek greater expenditure efficiency through
improved highway planning and investment strategies, as well as to
modernize maintenance management and improve cost recovery from
road users. Local governments are also expected to further the
development of road transport services and the road construction
industry through deregulation and promotion of competition, access
to modern technology and improved management. The Bank has prepared
a report (No. 11819-CHA dated February 1994), "CHINA: Highway
Development and Management - Issues, Options and Strategies", which
provides a strategic framework for action in the foregoing areas
and serves as the basis for the Bank Group sector assistance
strategy.
Linkage to Country Assistance Strategy
4.      In highways, the key problem facing China is its comparative
neglect of the sector over several decades. The Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China, presented to the Board in June
1995, supports China's needs to rapidly modernize and expand its
highway system. To achieve this, GOC, with Bank and other multi-
and bilateral assistance, is giving high priority to developing the
system of expressways leading to the NTHS. Among other priority
corridors, the Bank is already heavily involved in the construction
of substantial sections of Jingzhu expressway, between Beijing and
Guangzhou. Under the ongoing National Highway (NH1) Project, two
important sections are presently being built in Hebei and Henan.
Under the proposed Second National Highway (NH2) Project, two
priority sections in Guangdong and Hunan would be undertaken. Under
a future Third National Highway (NH3) Project which is under
preparation, several important expressway sections as well as a
major Wuhan Yangtze river bridge under an agreed Build-Operate-
Transfer (B-O-T) arrangement would be undertaken in Hubei province.
A newly proposed Fourth National Highway IV (NH4) Project would
cover two important expressway sections in Hunan and Hubei which
will be linked to the Yangtze bridge B-O-T scheme. These four
National Highway Projects constitute a well thought-out and well
- 2-



balanced series of investment operations which will assist GOC and
the concerned provinces in the timely completion of China's highest
priority expressway corridor. In general, the Bank's program of
support in the highway sector will continue to assist China in the
foreseeable future in the financing, development and management of
its priority expressway system.
Geography of Project Area
5.      The proposed NH2 Project is focused in the Central and
Southern provinces of Guangdong and Hunan, which border the
interior and developed coastal regions of China. Elements of the
Jingzhu Expressway in these two provinces would serve a combined
population of nearly 130 million, with traffic volume and vehicle
fleets which are fast-growing and demographic features which are
common to both provinces, described as follows:
(a)     Guangdong Province is located on the South China Sea at the
southeastern corner of China. As of end-1994, Guangdong had a
population of 66.1 million covering an area of 178,000 sq. km, with
a population density of 371 people per sq. km. Topographically,
Guangdong is high in the north and low in the south, with wide
areas of hills and low mountains. Almost 75 percent of the total
area is mountainous and hilly. The coastline is long and winding,
measuring more than 4,300 km along the mainland area. The province,
with Guangzhou as its capital, is divided into 3 administrative
regions, 9 provincially administered cities, 6 cities at the county
level, 73 counties and 3 autonomous counties. The economy of
Guangdong has grown by about 15 percent per year since 1980. Gross
Output Value of Agriculture and Industry (GOVAI) per capita has
averaged nearly 20 percent per year over the same period. The
highway network comprises some 83,000 km, of which only about 4,600
km (7 percent) include expressways, and class 1 and class 2 roads.
Between 1981 and 1993, the road network grew in length by about 8
percent per year. The vehicle fleet grew more than five times
between 1986 and 1994, at an average of 19 percent per year. The
fleet of large trucks, buses and agricultural tractors grew between
9 and 11 percent per year while the fleet of passenger cars, light
vans and pickups grew at 19 percent per year. The most rapid growth
occurred in the motorcycle fleet at 28 percent per year. Traffic
growth from 1980 to 1994 was strong. Freight traffic grew at over
10 percent per year, with the strongest growth in water transport
and highways. Passenger transport also grew at well over 10 percent
per year, with the strongest growth in highway transport at 15
percent per year.
(b)     Hunan Province is situated in the middle reaches of the
Changjiang River in south central China. Stretching 900 km from
east to west and 800 km from south to north, Hunan has a total area
of 210,000 sq. km. With mountains in the east, south and west, the
land generally slopes from south towards the north. Most common
land form in this region are hills which occupy about 50 percent of
the total area. At the end of 1994, Hunan had a population of 63.1
million and its population density averaged 315 people per sq. km.
The province, with Changsha as its capital, is divided into 6
-3 -



administrative regions, 1 autonomous prefecture, 5 provincially
administrated counties, 18 cities at the county level, 74 counties
and 6 autonomous counties. The economy has grown by about 9 percent
per year since 1980 while GOVAI per capita has averaged about 11
percent per year over the same period. The highway network
comprises some 58,800 km, of which only 1,750 km (3 percent) are
class 1 and class 2 roads. The roads with bituminous and cement
pavements amount to only 12,400 km (21 percent). The vehicle fleet
grew more than two times between 1986 and 1994, at an average of 12
percent per year. Similar to Guangdong, the fastest growth occurred
in the motorcycle fleet at 30 percent per year. Freight and
passenger traffic grew at about 5 percent per year from 1980 to
1994. The most rapid growth for freight traffic occurred in road
transportation at 6.5 percent per year. In passenger traffic the
highway mode grew at about an annual 6 percent. Similar to
Guangdong, by the year 1994, about 90 percent of all passenger
movements were undertaken by road transport.
Project Objectives
6.      The proposed project would be the second in the series of
NH1-NH2-NH3-NH4 projects for the Jingzhu expressway in Guangdong,
Hunan, Hubei, Henan, and Hebei provinces. It would build on its
predecessor NH1 and would precede NH3 by about one year and NH4 by
about two years. All four projects in the series would support an
integrated approach to expressway corridor development, with each
of the four operations contributing selected priority sections
which would gradually develop into a full corridor system. The
specific objectives of the NH2 project would be to: (a) relieve
road transport congestion and improve the integration of
interregional trade and commerce between Hunan and Guangdong by
assisting in the development of two key sections of the NTHS in the
principal North-South transport corridor; (b) strengthen
institutional capacity at the Hunan and Guangdong Provincial
Communications Departments and related institutions, through
provision of training, technical assistance and equipment, in
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of
Hunan's and Guangdong's highway networks; (c) develop a new
framework for the commercialization and corporatization of
provincial expressway companies, through execution of an innovative
study to that effect; and (d) increase road safety, through
technical assistance and black spot improvement.
Project Components
7.      This two province highway project would comprise:
(a) construction of (i) Xiangtan to Leiyang Expressway (XLE), a 169
km divided four-lane access-controlled highway in Southern Hunan,
and (ii) Xiaotang to Gantang Expressway (XGE), a 109 km divided
four-lane access-controlled highway in Northern Guangdong. The
expressway works would include construction of service,
administration and maintenance facilities as well as the supply and
installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical (E&M)
equipment for tolling, traffic monitoring, telecommunication and
- 4 -



lighting of interchanges, toll plazas and service areas;
(b) Interconnecting Road Programs (IRP) in Hunan and Guangdong,
consisting of new construction of 5 roads, with a total length of
39 km, in Hunan, and of 10 roads, with a total length of 22 km, in
Guangdong. The Hunan IRP would include the new 16 km divided four-
lane class 1 Xiangtan - Zhuzhou Highway (XZH). The Hunan project
part would also comprise new construction of Loudi-Lianyuan Highway
(LLH), an auto-only access-controlled class 2 road of 60 km length;
(c) construction supervision services for XLE, XGE, the Hunan and
Guangdong IRP and LLH;
(d) studies/technical assistance in (i) highway maintenance
management and expressway commercialization and corporatization in
Hunan; and in (ii) transport and economic integration and
expressway safety in Guangdong;
(e) staff training programs for Hunan and Guangdong covering all
aspects of highway planning, design, construction, operation,
finance and maintenance; and
(f) equipment for: (i) control of construction quality and
monitoring of the environment during construction of the
expressways; (ii) operation and maintenance of the expressways
after their completion; (iii) road data base (RDB) and pavement
management system (PMS) in Hunan; and (iv) maintenance of the
provincial road network in Hunan.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
8.      By helping GOC to plan and build the NTHS, of which the
Jingzhu expressway is a key element, the Bank supports this
essential long-term solution to the serious transport problems
facing China, removing infrastructure bottlenecks, facilitating
interprovincial trade, and promoting long-distance road traffic.
This would help arrest a growing regionalism while furthering the
liberalization, facilitation, and cost reduction of transport - key
requirements for market-oriented reforms to succeed. Early
completion of the expressway corridor between Changsha and
Guangzhou would be vital to the future economic development of
Hunan province since this would open up this inland province for
much needed increases in interprovincial trade with fast-growing
Guangdong and Hong Kong and help realize the full economic benefits
from large-scale expressway development. The transport and economic
integration study for the Hong Kong - Guangzhou - Changsha
corridor, by focusing on Northern Guangdong and Southern Hunan,
would help integrate these yet underdeveloped rural areas into the
fast-growing economies of the Pearl River Delta and Hong Kong.
9.      Further to the basic objective of system integration, the
Bank would also give priority to the improvement of interconnecting
roads at all interchanges of the project expressways. The NH2
project would thus help to counter the prevalent GOC approach to
confine the development of the NTHS to the expressways themselves,
- 5 -



benefiting long-distance, end-to-end traffic and seriously limiting
any sharing in the project benefits by the area alongside the
expressway. Bank support is also justified by project assistance to
institutional development, which, besides the provision of training
and equipment, would include studies on expressway
commercialization and corporatization, and highway maintenance
management. This would support the introduction of market
principles and mechanisms in highway financing, operation,
management and maintenance. Bank involvement is also expected to
benefit the design and quality of construction of expressways as
well as road traffic safety. NH2 would also foster improved
practices in the areas of environment, land acquisition and
resettlement of project-affected people.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
10.     The Bank has accumulated substantial experience through the
preparation and implementation of a dozen highway projects in
China, four of which have been completed. While the overall
performance of highway projects is by and large satisfactory, some
problems have occurred, including inadequate quality of
construction, cost overruns and a late start in the engineering
design and procurement of traffic engineering facilities, which
have delayed completion of some projects. Preparation of the
proposed NH2 project has specifically addressed the above issues.
The detailed engineering designs and bid documents for the
expressways under the project will soon be reviewed by
international experts and construction of these expressways will be
supervised by two joint international/local consulting teams with
the local teams receiving both formal (in China and abroad) and on-
the-job training in supervision of construction activities and
environmental aspects of road development. The conceptual designs
of the traffic engineering facilities have already been completed.
11.     Several of the most important lessons learned in
implementation of highway projects worldwide concern road
maintenance. Bank policy papers in 1979 and 1988 underscored the
fact that neglect of road maintenance can ultimately result in very
high costs to restore infrastructure, and that new road
construction must be balanced with the need for road maintenance.
Previously, this was not an issue in China -- adequate funds were
being set aside for this purpose and maintenance was adequately
carried out. However, with the expansion of the NTHS (with its high
costs), the rapid increase in traffic volumes, and the trend
towards using larger trucks with heavier axle loads, concern is
growing about the accelerating maintenance requirements in the
future. An analysis of the sources and uses of highway funds during
the 9FYP in Guangdong and Hunan revealed that the two project
provinces would be able to meet their highway expenditure plans.
12.     The Bank's recent, albeit limited, experience with the
operation and management of tolled expressways in China indicates
the need for improvement in this area. The proposed project
therefore provides training for staff and equipment for efficient
and safe operation and maintenance of the project's high-grade
highways. Moreover, the project provinces would benefit from the
- 6 -



general results of high-grade highway commercialization and
corporatization studies that will be undertaken as part of the NH2
and NH3 projects in Hunan and Hubei, respectively. Limited
experience with highway safety programs in China has pointed to the
difficulty of their implementation due to poor coordination between
the traffic police and the highway departments. The proposed
project addresses this problem at least partially by focusing on
expressway safety which, in view of the rapid expansion of the
expressway network in Guangdong and Hunan, is becoming a serious
problem.
13.     Experience in the area of land acquisition and resettlement
has generally been satisfactory. However, the lesson has been that
the Bank should make its requirements well known to the Chinese
agencies at an early stage in the preparation of a new project. The
Legal Department should also be brought on board early in the
project preparation. Experience in the environmental area in China
has generally been favorable, however, more attention should be
paid to environmental supervision and monitoring during
construction, and to training of personnel. The resettlement and
environmental aspects of the project were properly addressed
throughout preparation, resulting in specific environmental plans
for the design, construction and operation phases of the project as
well as in resettlement action plans. Both plans would be monitored
throughout implementation. Moreover, the proposed project would
provide equipment for environmental supervision and monitoring as
well as training of staff.
Project Cost and Financing
14.     Total project cost is estimated to be $1,151.5 million
equivalent, excluding loan commitment charges and interest during
construction. Project financing would be as follows: $152.8 million
(or 13.2 percent of total project cost) from MOC; $213.5 million
(18.5 percent) from Hunan; $385.3 million (or 33.5 percent) from
Guangdong, and $400 million (or 34.8 percent) from the Bank. MOC's
funding would be restricted to the two expressways. The Bank loan
of which $200 million will be for Hunan and $200 million for
Guangdong would finance about 73 percent of the project's foreign
exchange cost.
Economic Evaluation
15.     The major quantifiable benefits of the project comprise the
reductions in vehicle operating costs and time costs. The new
expressways between Xiangtan and Leiyang in Hunan and Xiaotang and
Gantang in Guangdong will have shorter lengths, improved pavement
surface conditions and riding comfort, an improved geometry,
reduced traffic interferences, and better safety standards than the
existing roads. Therefore, most of the long distance traffic and
some of the local traffic is expected to diverge from the existing
roads to the new expressways. Since many road users will choose the
expressways, there will also be a reduction in congestion levels on
the existing roads. Thus, users who will continue using the
existing roads will also benefit in the form of time savings due to
-7 -



the resulting higher travel speeds that can be driven on the
existing roads. Other quantified project benefits are due to the as
yet non-existing traffic that will be generated on XLE and XGE as a
result of the lowering of transport costs. The estimated economic
internal rate of return (EIRR) is 26.3 percent for XLE (169 km) in
Hunan; 18.1 percent for XGE (110 km) in Guangdong; and 19.6 percent
for the entire expressway corridor between Changsha and Guangzhou,
a distance of some 659 km. Separate economic evaluations for LLH
resulted in an EIRR of 20.7 percent and for XZH of 47.0 percent.
The EIRR for the overall project, including all non-quantifiable
project components is 22.0 percent.
Environmental Aspects
16.     XLE, XGE, XZH and LLH are classified as category A from an
environmental perspective. Their Environmental Impact Assessments
(EIAs) were prepared, and together with their Environmental Action
Plans (EAPs), reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.
The Bank also reviewed and found satisfactory the basic policies,
planning proposals and institutional arrangements used in the
preparation of all EIAs and EAPs. The EIAs indicate that the
proposed alignments for the high-grade highways will not adversely
affect ecologically sensitive areas and, provided that the EAPs are
implemented, the construction and operation of the highways should
have no adverse impacts on the environment. In both Hunan and
Guangdong, major environmental impacts during construction will
include noise and dust, alteration of hydrological regimes, soil
erosion, interference with local traffic, impact on local ecology,
and irrigation systems. Of these impacts, noise, dust and soil
erosion will be the most serious.
17.     Traffic noise, vehicle exhaust, soil erosion and water
pollution from service areas were identified as the major adverse
impacts during the operation period. The EAPs specify the
appropriate mitigation measures, environmental monitoring plans,
institutional arrangements, training, equipment requirements and
budget needs for their implementation to mitigate the environmental
impacts. Major mitigation measures include selection of appropriate
alignments, proper design of overpasses and underpasses to minimize
local traffic and social disruptions, optimization of earth works
to minimize the impacts of borrow areas and material hauling, use
of water sprinklers to reduce dust, and construction of noise
barriers to reduce traffic noise. The project will also strengthen
vehicle emission inspection and promote better vehicle maintenance
facilities to reduce air pollution. The detailed engineering design
and technical specification for highways incorporate appropriate
measures to protect the environment.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Aspects
18.     Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) have been prepared for XGE
and XLE by the resettlement offices of the Guangdong Provincial
Freeway Company (GPFC) and Hunan Provincial Expressway Construction
and Development Corporation (HPECDC). These RAPs are based on the
National Resettlement Policy of PRC and the Bank's Operational
- 8 -



Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, and form the basis for
implementation of land acquisition and resettlement of the proposed
project. In the preparation of the resettlement component of this
project, attention was paid to the effective implementation and
monitoring of the resettlement policies. The main objective of the
resettlement program is to improve the standards of living of the
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) to the levels before resettlement,
or at least to restore them.
19.     Land acquisition for the NH2 project will have adverse effect
on 39,165 persons in two provinces. Total land acquisition is
32,874 mu and a total of 397,676 m2 of private housing will be
demolished affecting 1,828 units. In Guangdong 14 enterprises will
be removed due to the project, affecting the jobs of 354 employees.
The enterprises which will be reconstructed will continue employing
their workers and the remaining workers will be placed in
comparable employment by the local resettlement organizations.
These figures were obtained through censuses of affected population
and assets along the alignment, conducted by the highway design
institutes responsible for the project. Lost assets, including
housing will be compensated at replacement value. Resettlement
sites for housing will be provided in the same village and in a
location close to the original housing sites. If arable land is
available, PAPs losing land will be compensated with equal size
plots. If this is not feasible, they will be transferred to non-
agricultural activities such as enterprise employment, based on
their skills, and receive rehabilitation benefits during the
transition. The cost estimate of land acquisition and resettlement
is 525,849,695 RMBY. During implementation, resettlement will be
monitored by independent monitoring organizations through site
visits. Standards of living of the affected population will be
monitored through structured surveys after the completion of
resettlement. The independent monitors are already appointed and
have begun their work.
Project Implementation
20.     The Guangdong Provincial Communication Department (GPCD) and
its subsidiary GPFC and the Hunan Provincial Communications
Department (HPCD) and its subsidiary HPECDC would have overall
responsibilities for implementation of their respective project
parts. XLE, XGE and LLH would be constructed under 26 contract
sections to be awarded following international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures. All contractors for these sections would be
prequalified. National competitive bidding (NCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank would be used for all interconnecting roads
including XZH, and for service areas, toll plazas, as well as
administration and maintenance buildings along XLE and XGE.
Construction supervision would be provided by two joint
international/local supervision teams, independently for XLE and
XGE. The project implementation arrangements as proposed by
GPCD/GPFC and HPCD/HPECDC in their respective draft Project
Implementation Plans (PIP) are satisfactory. The project would be
implemented during the period 1997-2002. Amounts and methods of
procurement and disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are
-9-



shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events
and the status of Bank Group operations in China are provided in
Schedules C and D, respectively. The Staff Appraisal Report,
No.15428-CHA dated March 27, 1996 is being distributed separately.
Project Sustainability
21.     China has a good record in the sustainability of its highway
investments and Guangdong and Hunan Provinces are no exception to
this achievement. The sustainability of the project's physical
investments is dependent on the quality of the initial construction
and adequate funding for future routine and periodic maintenance.
The use of two independent construction supervision teams
comprising international and domestic experts, combined with up-
front construction supervision training and regular Bank
supervision missions, will help ensure quality control. To maintain
the new expressways, some of the funds collected from road users in
the form of tolls will be earmarked for routine and periodic
maintenance. Maintenance of other project roads would be funded by
revenues from user charges (primarily road maintenance fees
collected by provincial highway authorities). Institutional
sustainability is also likely. GPFC/GPCD and HPCD/HPECDC are strong
provincial highway organizations in China and are very much
committed to further improving the capabilities of their staff
through the project's technical assistance and training programs.
GPCD and HPCD took the lead in designing their programs, which
should ensure the transfer of skills envisioned.
Risks and Actions
22.     The proposed Bank loan, together with secured funding from
MOC, Hunan and Guangdong would enable the completion of two
critical sections of Jingzhu expressway. There would be no major
risks associated with the Bank financed XLE and XGE. Risks related
to construction quality, cost overruns, implementation delays,
insufficient or untimely maintenance of highways, and ineffective
highway safety programs were identified under the Lessons Learned.
Project preparation has focused on the mitigation of risks specific
to this project or risks identified in other Bank-financed highway
projects. Project preparation has incorporated specific lessons
from Bank projects in China and has involved MOC for assistance in
technical matters and project formulation. International
consultants have also been involved in the design of the
expressways and road safety components and in the preparation of
technical specifications.
23.     Bank-wide experience also shows that there are risks of
overly optimistic estimates of traffic growth and diversion to the
project roads, key assumptions in estimating project benefits. The
economic evaluation for this project has considered scenarios with
low traffic growth, low diversion of traffic, and cost overruns.
The project remains economically viable over a wide variety of
scenarios and with a wide range of variations in specific costs and
benefits. For example, the cost of the project must increase by 15
percent and its quantified and costed benefits must decrease by 15
- 10 -



percent, before the EIRR of XLE would decrease to 22.2 percent and
of XGE to 15.0 percent. Under the same scenario, the entire
Guangzhou-Changsha corridor would still achieve an EIRR of 16.4
percent.
Contact Point                     Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997.
- 11 -



