China Highway 11 Project
Hunan Highway Corrldor Project
Xiangtan - Leiyang Highway Project
Environmental Assessment Summary
(2nd Revised Version)
Hunan Provincial Communications Department
Changsha, China
December, 1995



Contents
A. Background Description of the Project .................................................                 1
B. Brief Introduction to the Project .................................................2
C. Description of the Primary Environment ................................................. 3
D. Predicted Environmental Impacts and  Mitigation Measures ......................6
E. Environmental Monitoring ................................................                              13
F. Environmental Management Institutions and Personnel Training ........... 14
G. Participation of the Public ................................................                          15
H. Resettement ...............................................                                           1 5
. Summary .............................................                                                  15
Appendix  I   Key Elements of the EAP ...............................................                      17
Appendix  11  Environmental Monitoring Plan .............................................. 23
Appendix Ill  Environmental Supeivisory Plan: ................................                           25
Appendix IV  Summary of Environmental Investment ................................... 27
Appendix V   Summary  of Social Investigation ..........................................  29
Appendix Vl Environmental Standards (Noise, Atmosphere,
Water Quality) ..........................................                              31



Environmental Assessment Summary of
Xlangtan - Lelyang Highway Project
A.     Background of the Project
1.    The study work of Xiangtan-Leiyang Expressway belonging to Hunan
highway corridor project (formerly termed MXiangtan-Leiyang Section of
Beijing-Zhuhai National Highway, Xiangtan-Yizhang Expressway') started
in September, 1992. The prefeasibility study report of the project was
finished in November, 1993, and the feasibility study report was completed
in May, 1995. The preliminary design was finished in February, 1995. As
agreed upon by Hunan Provincial Communications Department and
experts from the World Bank in October, 1995, this project contains
Xiangtan-Leiyang highway (the main road), nine linking-roads and the
subproject-Loudi-Lianyuan Class II Auto-only highway.
2.     The Highway Science Research Institute of the MOC was entrusted with
the environmental assessment for the project by Hunan Communications
Department in September, 1993. The research institute holds Class A
certificate on environmental assessment awarded by China National
Environmental Protection Agency (NAPA).
The project's Environmental Assessment Synopsis was examined and
approved by the National Environmental Agency in April, 1995. The
environmental impacts assessment was examined and approved by both
the Environmental OFFice of the Ministry of Communications and the
National Environmental Agency in November, 1995.
3.    The experts from the World Bank has checked the following reports:
Environmental Impacts Assessment (EIA) in April, 1995, Environmental
Assessment Plan (EAP) in July, 1995, Environmental Assessment
Summary (EAS) in November, 1995, all the three concerning Xiangtan-
Leiyang Highway Project and its eight linking-roads. Besides, the world
Bank experts checked the EIA and EAP of the subproject, i.e. Loudi-
Lianyuan Highway, the EIA of the linking road between Tian Taishan in
Zhuzhou and Yi Shuhe (Tianyi road) in Xiangtan respectively in Duly,
November, November, 1995. Based on suggestions given by the experts
after checking the aforementioned reports, final revisions have been made
by the assessing unit and Hunan Provincial Communications Department.
4.     Major regulations and standards on environment adopted in this project.
Regulations:
(1)    China Environmentai Protection Reaulation
(2)    China Atmospheric Pollution Prevention Regulation
(3)    China Water Pollution Prevention Reqiulation
(4)    China Cultural Relics Protection Regulation
(5)    China. Environmental Noise Prevention Regulation
(6)    China Land Management Law
(7)    (86) NAPA No. 003 Document, i.e. Environmental Protection
Manaaement Measures for Constructive Proiects
I



(8)    (90) No. 17 by the MOC, i.e.
Environmental Protection Management Measures for Communication
Constructive Projects
Environmental Standards:
(9)    GB 3095-82 AtmosDheric Environment Quality Standards:
(10)   GB 3096-93 Urban District Environmental Noise Standards;
(11)   GB 3838-88 Surface Water Environmental Quality Standards.
Specific Limitations concerning each environmental standard are shown
in Appendix VI.
5.     Scope and Period of Assessment
(12)   In this project, the assessment scope of atmosphere, noise and cultural
relics is on both sides 200m away from the proposed highway's central
line. That of ecological environment and ordinary waters is also 200m, but
that of wildlife and air pollutant is to be extended to 500m on both sides
away form the proposed highway's central line. The scope for studying
social, economic and life quality value is the concemed areas along the
whole line including regions or cities as well as districts under their
jurisdiction.
(13)   Assessment standards of the project are as follows: GB 3095-82 Grade II
Standard for atmospheric environment; GB 3096-93 Urban District Noise
Standards as reference for noise environment; Class IV standard for
schools and hospitals; Class II Standard for residential areas; Class II
standard defined in GB 3838-88 Surface Water Environmental Qualitv
Standard forwaterquality.
(14)   According to the characteristics and construction period of the project, the
assessment period limitation is hereby defined as the year 2020, the
predicted year number for specific phase being as follows: construction
phase (1996-1999); early operation phase, 2000; medium operation
phase, 2010 and late operation phase, 2020.
B.    Brief Introduction to the Project
6.     Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway is 1 68.847krn in total length and will be built
under the standards of highways in plains or lightly hilly area with designed
drive speed of 1201akh, 27.5m of subgrade. It is a total access controlled
expressway with 9 interchanges, 85 Grade separation, 8 extremely big and
big bridges. Besides, there will set up complete facilities including 3
service areas, 3 parking lots, 3 administration stations and 9 tolling
stations. Land to be used is 20500.91 mu (equal to 1366.73 hectares,
including temporary landuse). It is estimated the total investment is 4.302
billion yuan. There are 9 linking roads with a total length of 39km, in which
the distance of 8 roads amounts to 23km in length.
7.     The linking road between Tian Taishan in Zhuzhou and Yi Shuhe in
Xiangtan is the longest included in Xiangtan-Leiyang highway project. It
has a total length of 16.056km, being Class I road and containing 4 lanes.
2



The designed drive speed is 1COkm/h and the subgrade is 24.5m.
Altogether there will set up 2 interchanges. 4 level intersection, 3 big and
medium bridges. Land to be used is 1124.57mu (equal to 74.97
hectares). It is estimated that the total investment is 123.68 million yuan,
and the earth and stone work is 1.1 51208 million m3.
8.     Loudi-Lianyuan Class II Auto-only highway is 59.6km in total length, with 4
lanes and designed drive speed being 80km/h. The subgrade is 1Sm.
Besides there will set up 4 big bridges, 4 interchanges, 50 grade
separations and 5 tolling stations. Land to be used is 2835 mu (equal to
189 hectares), with 4.65749 million m3 of earth and stone work. The
estimated investment amounts to 426.23 million yuan.
C.     Description of the Primary Environment
9.     Topographical Features
(1)    The proposed Xiangtan-Leiyang rcad is located in the mid-south of Hunan
Province, whose altitude decreases from the middle to both north and
south: in north lies the Xiangtan-Hengshan red soil basin; in the middle
extends Shiwan-Than lightly hilly or hilly terrain; in the south is the
sout,hern Hengyang basin. Landforms along the road are mainly erosive-
accumulative plain and slightly hilly terrain. In some areas is lightly hilly or
hilly terrain erosive-denudation of erosive denudation. The seismic degree
is less than IV deqree.
(2)    The Tiantaishan-yishuhe linking road lies between Zhuzhou city and
Xianr'tan city, both located in Middle Hunan Province. Topography of the
arca is plain or lightly hilly land. of quite great undulation. Hilltops are
perfectiy round and bedrock appear exposed in most paris.
(3)    Loudi-Lianyuan  highway  is situated  in  Middle Hunan  Province,
topographically being low hilly land with some sections atong the road
having quite great undulation. General feature is that the altitude
decreases form both south and north to the middle, and that the river
valley is relatively wide.
The areas where the project lies are of heavy soil erosion.
10.    Climate and Hydrology
The project areas have a temperate climate with four distinguished
seasons, adequate  heat, concentration  of rainfiall, varying  spring
temDerature, drought-attacked summer and autumn, short-term coldness
ano long-term summer. The annual average temperature is 17.2-17.9 °C,
and the annual average rainfalil 1315.0-1409.6mm with 70% concentrating
in the period from April to July. South wind prevails in summer and mainly
north or north-east wind in the other seasons at the aeneral velocity of 2.1
mlsecond or so. The area of Loudi-Lianyuan road has a slower wind
velocity and a smaller rainfall amount.
Within the area of the proposed Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway as well as
its Tiantaishan-Yishuhe linking road, all the rivers, which belong to
Xiangjiang water system, have water-flows all-year-round. Due to basically



good water quality in main water areas, the well-developed surface water
system has become the major wvater source for industrial and agricultural
production. And the underground water along the line, which is also
relatively developed except in the Tian-Yi section, is plentiful in quantity
and good in quality, providing the local residents with the major drinking
water source.
The underground water along the Loudi-Lianyuan alignment is plentiful
and good in Quality, serving as the major drinking water source. Water in
rivers and ponds is used for irrigation, All the rivers in the area belong to
Zishui River or the direct tributary of Xiangjiang River-Lianshui River.
1-:.   Social and Economic Situations
The areas along the proposed Xiangtan-Leiyang highway as well as its
Tian-Yi Linking road have quite developed agriculture and industry as well
as flourishing commerce. They are the most developed zone anid an
important economic belt in Hunan Province, not only serving a.c the major
production base of rice, cotton and oil where crops grow twice a year but
also serving as the base of such industries. as metallurgy, building
materials, chemistry, textile and food processing. According to the
statistics of 1993, population in concerning areas amounts to 11.6059
million with the density of 440 person per square kilometer. Both living
standards and educational level of the residents here exceed the average
ones in the whole province. Three cities-Zhuzhou, Xiangtan and
Hengyang-in the project areas possess very abundant mineral resources
mainly including nonferrous metal, coal and building materials.
The proposed Loudi-Lianyuan highway is located in the Mid-Hunan
economic zone, in which there are relatively abundant natural resources
such as nonferrous metal, building materials and coal. The zone also has
a solid heavy industrial strength and some foundations for light industry as
well. Developed in agriculture, it is one of the agricultural production base
of the province. Besides, the population density is 472 person per square
kilometer, and living standards of the residents here are below the average
ones in the whole province.
12.    Ecological Environment
Having been developed earlier, the along areas have quite developed
economy with greatly frequent human activities. The original vegetation
has been damaged and gradually substituted by the present secondary
forest and artificial vegetation, mainly containing mason pine forest and oil-
tea tree forest. There are also China fir forest and citrus forest. Main cereal
crops are rice, maize, beans, wheat, yams and Chinese sorghum, while
cash crops include cotton, oil-tea camellia and citrus. Hengshan Nanyue
Natural Preserve and  Hengnan  Jiangkou  bird  sand-bar Natural
Conservancy both stay far (respectively 23km and 6km) away form the
proposed road. No plant or animal that is rare or in imminent danger has
been found within 500m from both sides of the road (including Loudi-
Lianyuan road and Tian-Yi road)
13.    Tourism and Cultural Relics
There exist abundant tourist resources along the alignment. Major scenic
spots and historical sites are Yuelu Mountainous Park, Hengshan one of



the five famous mountains with unique beauty, Shaoshan the former
residence of Miao Zedong, Zhaoshan in Xiangtan, Laiyan Pagoda in
Hengyang, the Emperor's Tomb, Callun Memorial Temple in Leiyang,
Jiangkou Bird Sand-bar Natural Conservancy, Hengdong Xiyan Cave,
Meijiang Scenic Spot in Lianyuan city, and so forth. In addition, three sets
of ancient tombs of Han Dynasty are discovered in investigations along the
Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway line.
14.    Atmospheric Quality
The atmospheric monitoring data of recent years shows that the content of
S02 NOx, TSP and CO in Xiangtan, Zhuzhou, Hengyang, Leiyang, Loudi
and Lianyuan along the alignment can all roughly satisfy the Grade II
standard of atmospheric quality (with TSP in Hengyang and Lianyuan
surpassing a little). In December, 1993 and July, 1994, 14 spots were
established along the alignment of Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway to
monitor the present atmospheric quality concerning CO, NOx, TSP and
S02. Results express that except in very few spots, the content of NOx
and CO can satisfy the Grade II standard. The atmospheric Quality in
areas long each linking road and Loudi-Lianyuan highway is basically good
except in the area where Lianyuan steelworks is located. Generally
speaking, the atmospheric environment in areas concemed has big
capacity and provides sound environment for construction of the project.
15.    Sound Environmental Quality
According to the monitoring results of present situations collected at 21
spots along Xiangtan-Leiyang highway in December, 1993 and July,
1994, measured noise values in daytime and at night are below the
corresponding standards except in very few spots, and in most spots the
noise grades are quite low in comparison with the standard value. Besides,
situations along the linking roads and Loudi-Lianyuan highway are
desirable. Therefore in most alignment areas of the project, the sound
environmental quality is good and the sound environmental capacity is
quite great.
16.   Water Resources and Quality
The area, in which lie Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway and its linking roads,
belongs to Xiangjiang River basin. Major rivers in the area are Xiangjiang
River, Mishui River, Leishui River, Shahe River and Aoshanhe River. By
investigation, there are a number of ponds and two medium and small
bridges for field irrigation. According to the all-year-round monitoring
results given by Hunan Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau and
the spot monitoring results collected for this project at Majiahe and
Zhuting, all other water quality values of Xiangjiang River except the oily
substances can satisfy surface water Class IlIl standard.
17.    Soil Erosion and Soil Pollution
The proposed Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway and its linking roads pass
altogether five counties, among which Xiangtan and Zhuzhou County are
of medium soil erosion with the other three-Hengdong, Hengnan and
Leiyang County of intense soil erosion. In addition, Loudi and Lianyuan
city belong to medium soil erosive areas. This shows that soil erosion exist
commonly and vastly in the alignment areas in that erosive area comprises
5



20% of the total area of these cities and counties Thus, soil erosion. mainly
surface erosion, along the proposed project is sionificant. In areas
concerning the project there are three types of soil: rice soil , red soil and
purple soil. Along Loudi-Lianyuan highway rice and red soil dominate.
Monitoring data shows that the Pb content in the soil is quite low (31.6-
90.3mg/kg) especially when compared with the standard lead content in
acid soil (<200mg/kg). Because of the low lead content at present, there is
certain environmental capacity for lead pollution.
18.    Traffic and Transportation
A comprehensive transportation network has been preliminary set up in
areas along the proposed Xiang:an-Leiyang expressway and its 9 linking
roads. The network provides all directional railways and road
communications, convenient inland navigation and advanced civil aviation.
Due to the rapid economic development and increase in traffic volume in
recent years, the original facilities cannot satisfy the demand of economy.
So traffic situations become worsening, especially road communications.
In areas along Loudi-Lianyuan highway, there has formed a transportation
pattem dominated by railways and roads and supplemented by water
transport. But traffic accidents happen very often because of bad road
conditions, low technical standards, heavy traffic load, poor adaptability
and crowded transportation.
Based on the present situation, we can see that the construction of this
project will surely help improve traffic and transportation in the areas
concerned and promote rapid economic development along the alignment
areas.
D.    Predicted Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
19.    The project is to be described here and to be implemented in terms of
three phases, in accordance with the assessment on the predicted
environmental impacts and protection measur-es as well as the compiled
environmental implementation plans concerning the proposed Xiangtan-
Leiyang expressway, its 8 linking roads, Loudi-Lianyuan and Tiantaishan-
Yishuhe hiahiway. The EAP key elements are concluded into Appendix I.
20.    Design Phase
(1)    Rational alignment. In the selection of alignment alternatives, the survey
and design unit paid careful attention to rationalizing alignment,
minimizing cost, and at the same time took into full consideration
environmental impact factors such as acquisition of arable land, protection
of fields: schools, residences and cultural resins, flood control,
resettlement quantities, urban expansion, availability of building materials
and selection of material sites. For instance, among the three altematives
for a certain section of Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway, the present one was
chosen after careful study and comparison. Similarly in selecting the
alignment of Loudi-Lianyuan and Tiantaishan-Yishuhe highway, the
philosophy of "Near but not into the City was followed along with other
principles like minimizing land acquisition and resettlement, avoiding



environmental sensitive spots such as residences and schools besides
avoiding geological undesirable districts.
(2)    Interpersonal Contact. Highway construction will give rise to village
separations which will lead to some inconvenience for the villageres
contacts and culiation along the highway. For this reason, 394
underpasses and 22 overpasses are designed along the Xiangtan-Leiyng
alignment, 48 unoerpasses and 3 overpasses along the Loudi-Lianyuan
alignment in addition to 6 underpasses along the Tiantaishan-Yishuhe
alignment. Moreover, a number of big, medium and small bridges are to
be built along the roads to meet the requirements of the local people and
vehicles.
(3)    Soil erosion. With regard to the serious soil erosion in areas conceming
the project and to the possibility of causing more soil erosion in the
project's construction, it is proposed to plant arbor, bush, grass and
climbing ivy in the central strip, slope and road boundary areas along the
whole line; besides, skeleton grass, platting was, mansory rubbles and
other measures will be taken to prevent soil erosion. Also, in the design of
the project, a complete pavement and drainage system as well as a
temporary drainage system is available in order to lessen soil erosion and
to prevent the present hydrological system from changing.
(4)    Reducing land occupation. The project locates in hilly terrain, part of which
have to be heightened by filiing. Earth should be borrowed form adjacent
sites as much as possible based on the requirements of the project. Major
earth borrowing sites are located on both sides of the line. but a few high-
yielding arabie land wili be occupied. Since the region has a ;arge
population with less land. land acquisition should be minimized. The
power plants along the proposed Xiangtan-Leiyang has.much coal ash in
reserve. so in some sections certain quantity of coal ash will be used as
77.e base course materials of the pavement, which will reduce not only the
ash pond area but also the land acquisition.
(5)    Land acquisition, dismantling and resettlement. It is emphasized that the
highway shall be aligned to avert towns and minimize dismantling work
and land acquisition. Therefore, there is comparatively a small quantity of
dismantling work and a small number of people to be affected by the
project. The dismantling quantity of Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway is
255664.89m2, and that of Loudi-Lianyuan highway is 5O3O2m , of
Tiantaishan-Yishuhe highway 15543. 16m2. The numbers of affected
people by Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway and Loudi-Lianyuan highway are
respectively 17882 and 482 persons. The construction unit will specMcally
establish a dismantling offiice responsible for the fulfillment of land
acquisition and dismantling before the contractor comes. Refer to
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for details.
(6)        Noise pollution  Based  on spot investigations along the alignment
areas, altogether26 environmental sensitive points have been defined,
distributing as follows: 6 on the linking roads, 6 on the Loudi-Lianyuan
7



line and 2 on the Tiantaishan-Yishuhe line. It is predicted that some
sensitive points may be somewhat substandard in different assessment
years because of the increase of trafric volume along with the construction
and operation of the highway. In order to guarantee.the normal teaching
orders of school and health of residents in the aligriment areas, in the
project design noise mitigation measures must be taken. The noise
prevention measures for this project are shown in the following table.
Noise Prevention Measures for Xiangtan-Leiyang Highway Project
Item    'Noise Mitigationj Implementing   Quantity    Description
I  Measures         Year
Main line of   Sound barrier   early phase    I       4.0m high,
I             I    (1999)                 30Dm long
Xiangtan-   | Resettlement   early phase     1       Changyuan
.1           l     (1999)                   school
Leiyang    I Dismantling    early phase     10      Residences
(1 999)              within 25m from
highway
Expressway    Build fencing    early phase    2    1  3.Om high,
___ _I    walls    I    (1999)            250m long
Build fencing  medium phase    13   E  3.Om high,
I   wvalls         (2010)              1  250m long
Heighten    medium phase      2    3.0m, the first row
fences    !    (2010)               of houses from
I____________  I _____________   ___     the  highway
Linking roads (8)   Heighten    medium phase    2    j3.0m, the first row
fences        (2010)              |of houses from
_  the highwaY
Loudi-Lianyuan   Dismantling    early phase     1       Residences
Highway                       (1999)               within 30m from
_____________   ____________  ______________          highway
| Building fence   early phase    1       2.Om high,
I   walls    I    (1999)    I            200Dm long
Tiantaishan-    Building fence  medium phase   I 1     2.Dm high,
Yishuhe hiMhway I    vwalls      (2010)    J             200m long
When noise mitigation measures are taken at the above sensitive points
where noise values are much substandard, monitoring should be
reinforced at the same time at other points where the substandard
condition is not very serious in order that certain prevention measures can
be taken according to actual situations.
(7)    Atmospheric pollution. At the sensitive points along the alignment, the
content of CO and NOx will be within the standard (Atmospheric quality
Grade II standard) in both the early operation phase (the year 2000) and
the medium one (the year 2020). However, in the late operation phase
though the highway CO content stays within the standard, the daily
average highest NOx content in Xingtang-Guanshi section will surpass a
S



little. Under E, F stability, the daily highest average NOx content at all
points is 1.1 times the standard, being excessive a little. Since E, F
stability seldom occurs in the daytime, such cases can not happen
frequently. As to all sensitive points along the linking roads, Loudi-
Lianyuan and Tiantaishan-Yishuhe highway, the content of CO and NOx
will not exceed the standard in whatever operation phase. The problem of
pollution caused by automobile tail gas will be solved by bettering
exhaustive gas discharge, strengthening tail gas examination and
reducing the discharge of NOx and other tail gases..
Road service areas are set up 100m away the highway center, road
management stations 200m away for the interchanges. Stone yards, earth
borrowing sites, waste borrowing sites, waste disposal sites, limestone
earth and asphalt mixing sites shall be established for away from the
residences in order to prevent adverse impacts on environmentally
sensitive areas.
(8)    Water pollution. In the project designing, enough   permanent and
temporary drainage systems as well as a complete drainage system are
included. For instance such measures as building new ponds to substitute
for the occupied ones, reforming ditches and rebuilding canals besides
others will be taken to minimize the interference of surface water pollution
to irrigation systems and existent drainage systems. For prevention of
water pollution, three sewage treatment stations will be installed in the
three service areas along the Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway so that direct
discharge of sewage into public water source can be avoided.
(9)    Protection of cultural relics. The highway construction unit pays high
emphasis on the protection of cultural relics during the construction of this
project. The survey and excavation of cultural relics in the alignment areas
are delegated to Hunan Cultural Relics Archaeology ;nstitute. The institute
carried out the work in February-March, 1995. By survey three ancient
tombs of Han Dynasty were discovered in Liushu village of Guanshi,
Hengnan county. Besides, Hunan Cutural Relics Archaeology Institute
has compiled an archaeological excavation and protection plan, and all
excavation work will start before the construction. Refer to Cultural Relics
Archaeology and Excavation Plan for details. Investigations show that no
cultural relic has been discovered along the alignment of Loudi-Lianyuan
and Tiantaishan-Yishuhe highway.
(10)   Flood control. Each highway in this project is designed to have complete
pavement and subclass drainage systems in addition to enough bridges
and culverts. For example, along the alignment of Xiangtan-Leiyang
expressway will be set up 8 extremely big bridges, 12 medium ones, 10
small ones and 620 culverts. The designed flood frequency for them are
respectively 3 hundred year frequency for big bridges and one hundred
year frequency for medium and small bridges. Loudi-Lianyuan and
Tiantaishan-Yishuhe highway are designed to have big bridges with one
floodI100 years frequency and medium as well as small bridges with one
floodI50 years frequency. Also a certain number of culverts will be built.



Designs of these projects can satisfy the safe requirements of flood
discharge.
21     Construction Phase
(1)    Atmospheric Pollution.
The atmospheric pollution of the highway in construction phase largely
results from dust pollution whose major pollutants are the flying dust
produced from cement mixing, from construction vehicles and machinery.
In addition, the asphalt and concrete mixing stations and the loading and
unloading of building materials will also produce dust. In construction site
there are possible asphalt and benzopyrene pollution resulted from asphalt
mixing site. To relieve the atmospheric pollution in construction phase and
to safeguard the health of construction personnel and ,.eighboring
residents, the following measures are taken.
Mixing equipment shall be well sealed. Agitation equipment shall be
installed with secondary dust-removing facilities. Operators shall pay due
attention to health protection. There should be no villages or
environmentally sensitive areas within 200m downvind of the site.
Water shall be sprayed in the construction road. Particular attention
should be paid to that of the cement mixing site, asphalt and concrete
miing site and access roads.
Coal ash shall be disposed of to make its water content at 30%, which
shall be maintained at all time to avoid ash flying. Sealing devices shall be
used in transportation. Coal ash not for use in a long time shall be covered
with soil to prevent environmental pollution caused by dispersion of ash.
When filling subgrade, water spray is needed for material compacting, the
contractor shall make regular water spray after the impacting to prevent
material flying in the air.
Contractor should enhance management over bulk materials. Open piling
is prohibited. The piling yard shall be no less than 500m away from
villages. The topsoil of farmland from the vicinity borrowing points shall be
put together, and shall be filled back after the construction is over.
Stones needed in this project are mostly purchased outside. There are
about 10 artificial blasting and mechanized stone sites along the line,
which needs strict control.
(2).      Noise Pollution. The noise in construction primarily. comes from
construction machinery and transport vehicles. Strong noise impacting
people affected by significant noise will induce marny health impacts and
noise deaf which is related with the variation of noise class and noise
impacting time. To protect construction workers' health, the following
measures should be undertaken:
To rationalize working shift by reducing the noise contacting time, or by
alternating high-noise work and low-noise work
10



Meanwhile, care should be taken to the maintenance and correct
operation of machiinery so as to minimize the noise of construction
machinery.
Construction workers in vicinity of noise source shall wear protection
earplugs and helmets and their working time should be shortened as
appropriate.
Constructions site involving high noise within 150m of the residences
should be stopped in nighttime (22:00-6:00) Noise from construction shall
be mitigated by the contractor through rationalizing construction and
management.
(3).   Protection of Ecological Resources.
To protect forest, earth borrowing is prohibited in forest land, esp. not
around the forest protection area in the middle upper stream of the
Yangtze River in Hengdong county and tea-oil belt improvement area in
Hengnan county.
Cultivated lands shall not be used as earth borrowing points whenever
possible. If required, their topsoil (30cm) shall be kept aside and filled back
after the construction is over so that the impacts on ecology and
agriculture are minimized.
Education of the construction workers should be intensified so that they
will not to cut trees mistakenly or go haunting in order to protect natural
resources.
(4)    Soil Erosion and Water Pollution. Because the project locates in the heavy
soil erosion region in central Hunan, so there are greater possibilities of
soil erosion resulted from earth borrowing and filling/digging in
construction phase. It is suggested that:
wasteland and sparsely vegetated land be preferred as earth borrowing
points. Construction unit shall be in charge of tree planting and dam
construction.
Drainage ditches and dam(s) should be placed in waste points. It is
possible to set up an environment facilities zone in some section along the
waste points.
For filling sections, their slopes shall be solidified or covered by mason
rubbles and retaining wall, intercepting ditch or planted with grass and
climbing vegetables.
For cutting sections, it requires a good preparation for a longitudinal
hauling construction with cutting and filling at the same time, the upper
and down toes of slopes should be protected by mason stones and
retaining walls.
Planting should be done on both sides and slopes of the whole line.
11



The damaged irrigation and drainage systems, artificial ponds shall be
recovered or rebuilt.
Contractor shall always pay due attention to the dealing and smooth
going the of drainage system. Limestone and coal ash shall be stored
together and fenced by bricks or earth, and shall be kept away from water
area to prevent the run off from directly affecting water source.
In construction of bridges and culverts, it is prohibited to throw wastes into
the water. While building water drainage system, tempurary canals or
pipes shall be built for irrigation and drainage. Waste water in construction
activities shall not be discharged into rivers and irrigation canals before
being treated in precipitation pond.
(5)    Construction camp. A  clean and healthy environmental must be
maintained in construction camps. Septic tanks will be installed and
cleared periodically to avoid direct discharge of sewage into public water
sources. Moreover, garbage tanks shall be installed with garbage being
disposed off periodically. The drinking of raw water shall be prohibited to
prevent diseases from spreading. Construction staff are to given regular
health checkups to safeguard their health.
(6)    Culture Relics. If cultural relics are found during constriction, work shall
stop at one, and local department concerned shall be notified. Only after
cultural relics protection agencies have finished their identification. can the
construction be restored. Necessary measures must be taken to protect
the excavated cultural relics.
(7)    Vehicle management Local building materials such as sand, stones,
earth, cement and others shall be used as much as possible to avoid long
distance transportation and to reduce traffic jams and construction cost. In
order to reduce traffic jams during the construction phase, a vehicle and
transportation plan shall be compiled besides enhancing management of
existent roads. In building temporary accesses, a enough number of
lighting devices and safety signal devices shall be installed beside the
roads. Measures shall be taken to guide traffic.
(8)    Accidental risks. During construction, lighting devices and safety signal
devices shall be installed on temporary access, and traffic rules and
regulations shall be strictly followed. Effective safety and warning
measures will be taken to reduce accidents. Especially in blasting, the
blasting time, signal and guarding will be regulated with people and
vehicles removed timely. Prior to blasting, thorough inspections shall be
made. Furthermnore, the management and use of blasting materials will be
in strict conformity with safety requirements of public security.
22.    Operation Phase
(1)    Vehicle management. The maintenance and repairing of vehicles should
be strengthened to keep them in sourid conditions. Those vehicles with
12



excessive noise or tail gas discharge are not permitted to run on this
highway. Those transportirng materials should have awnings to avoid
spilling on the road. Entrance examinations wil be carried out. Education
on relative rules and regulations will be put high emphasis to make the
public familiar with the management regulations concerning atmospheric
and noise pollution control besides enhancing their environmental
awareness.
(2)    Exhaust discharge control. To mitigate pollution caused by tail gas, vehicle
management should be enhanced. For instance, vehicles with excessive
exhaust are not allowed to run on the highway, and driving time and speed
will be limited at sections possible to surpass standards of that exhaust
discharge can be reduced. There should also be greenbelts near probably
excessive sensitive points to lessen tail gas pollution.
(3)    Traffic noise control. At noise excessive points defined in prediction,
various noise mitigation measures like sound barriers, resettlement,
fencing walls or fence heightening (the first row of houses from the
highway) will be taken. Simultaneously with bringing the existent excessive
sensitive points under control, schools and hospitals are prohibitive on
both sides og the proposed project (within 200m of Xiangtan-Leiyang
expressway and 100m of the others). Residences are prohibitive within
50m of the project.
(4)    Spilling of dangerous goods. Respective transportation coordination units
should be set up by local transportation bureaus in areas along the
project's alignment. Emergency plan for dangerous goods transportation
shall be formulated. The transportation of dangerous goods require three
certificates issued by local transportation bureaus, i.e. delivery -permitting
license, driver's license and guardian's license. Public security and
firefighting departments shall designate a special region or route for these
vehicles which can only park at designated lots also. Besides, a
registration system wII be adopted by the highway management
department to minister dangerous goods transportation. Once spilling
happens relevant organizations should be notified immediately and actions
should be taken according to the emergency plan.
E.    Environmental Monitoring
23.    Pollution mitigation. Some latent environmental problems can be detected
earlier by verffying the validity of environmental impact predictions and
adjusting timely environmental protection measures. Henceforth, an
environmental monitoring plan has been formulated for this project.
According to this monitoring plan, the atmospheric environmental
monitoring and water quality monitoring in the construction and operation
phase will be conducted by local environmental protection organizations by
contract. Noise monitoring along Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway will be
conduct by the EP supervisory engineers of project supervision stations in
the construction phase and by the environmental protection section of
Xianglei Highway company in the operation phase. In addition,
environmental monitoring along Loudi-Lianyuan and Tiantaishan-yishehe
13



highway will be entrusted to local environmental protection organizations.
Please refer to Appendix II- Environmental Monitoring Plan for details.
24.    Atmospheric quality. The atmospheric monitoring is divided into two
phases: the construction phase and the operation phase. In the first
phase, the main monitoring item is TSP, lasting one day with a frequency
of once/week. Monitoring places are major construction sites, and. material
transportation roads adjacent to sensitive residence joints. In the second
phase, monitoring items are NOx, CO and TSP, lasting continuously for
rive days each time, four times within a day and twice a year. Based on
actual situations on each road, 6 monitoring places will be set up on
Xiangtan-Leiyang line and 2 on both Tantaisha-Yishuhe and Loudi-
Lianyuan line.
25.    Noise. In the construction phase, noise monitoring places are mixing
stations, construction sites, quarries and major roads for material
transportation. The monitoring frequency is once/week, one day for each
time and respectively each time in the daytime and at night. Random
monitoring may also be conducted according to actual situations. In the
operation phase, the monitoring frequency is 4 times a year, one day for
each time and twice within a day (each in the daytime and at night). In
terms of standard-exceeding situations on each line, 13 monitoring places
will be set up along Xiangtan-Leiyang expressway and its 8 linking roads
in the early operation phase, and the place number will be increased to 24
(2 for linking roads). Loudi-Lianyuan and Tianshan-Yishuhe highway will
have 2 monitoring places each.
26.   Water quality. Water quality will be monitored along Xiangtan-Leiyang
expressway in both the construction and the operation phase. The
monitoring place will be near the extremely big Xiangjiang bridges, with the
frequency being three times a year and one day for each time in the
construction phase, but once a year and one day for each time in the
operation phase
F.    Environmental Management Institutions and Personnel Training
The environmental protection office of Hunan Provincial Communications
Department (HPCD) is responsible for the environmental management of
projects in the transport business of Hunan Province. An environmental
and resettlement office has been set up by Hunan Provincial Expressways
Construction and Development Corporation (HPECDC). Xianglei Highway
Company and Loudi Highway Company will establish their respective
environmental protection section staffed with 3 professionals in charge of
environmental protection management. 4 EP supervisory engineers will be
engaged by construction supervision units to b responsible for EP
supervision work in the construction phase. Xianglei Highway Company
and Loulian Highway Company will take the responsibility for the
environmental protection in the operation phase. As to the management of
Tiantaishan-Yishuhe highway, the supervision company will be responsible
in the construction phase, and the work will be delegated to the EP office
of HPCD and Hunan Provincial Highway Bureau in the operation phase.
14



Environmental monitoring will be conducted by local environmental
protection bureaus, supervisory engineers and Xianglei Highway company.
Hunan Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau has as its duty routine
supervision vwork and local EPBs will supervise environmental work within
their jurisdiction loth of these two have the responsibility for supervising
EAP implementing organizations and supervising in conformity with laws
and regulations. Environmental supervising organizations and supervisory
plan are shown in Appendix 1ll.
28.    The environmental training plan for this project. includes two parts: (1)
training for personnel of environmental management; (2) training for
personnel of environmental supervision. Training for management
personnel has been included in the World Bank Assistance Projects (twice
in China and once abroad). The training fee for supervisory personnel
amounts to 74000 yuan. For details refer to Report on Training and
Procurement.
G.    Participation of the Public
In order to carry out the construction feasibly and effectively, the
assessment unit, the construction as well as the design u.iit have invited
the alignment organizations or representatives to have quite a few
discussions. They listened to various opinions and suggestions concerning
such issues as alignment alternatives, locations of overpasses and major
environmental problems (for details refer to Environmental Impact Report
for Xiangtan-Leiyang, Loudi-Lianyuan and Tiantaishan-Yishuhe highway).
meanwhile, social surveys have been made, in which opinions from
various circles are solicited. Those who took part in the survey include
unions and non-governmental organizations which will be affected and
residents who will be influenced by resettlement and land acquisition.
Table of public participation and social surveys are shown in Appendix V.
The Resettlement and Acquisition Plan formulated on the basis of opinions
and suggestions collected among the masses is shown in RAP.
H.    Resettlement
30.   Sample surveys of the affected villagers tell that 100% requires economic
compensations, 96% wants to be settled down on the spot and only 4%
demands for changing their professions Gobs).
31.    Based on the requirements of the masses and the relevant policies of
China, the problem should be solved on the spot through adjusting land,
improving the original farmland, relocating homestead by village
committees for house building, and making good use of the indemnity fee
for land acquisition and resettlement to develop agriculture, industry,
supplementary and service industries to help the villagers settle down.
L     Summary
32.    No serious environmental impact will emerge since all adverse impacts
can be mitigated or eliminated after taking EAP environmental protection
measures being implemented.
15



33.   The project will have no damage and little effect on cultural relics. With the
cooperation of cultural relics organizations, cultural relics excavations have
been made and an excavation plan has been worked out. Besides,
regulations on national cultural relics will be enforced during construction.
34.    The project has no serious risks of earthquake and in dangerous goods
transportation, and has little effect on flood control in the alignment areas.
35    No large population flow from villages to cities will be caused due to the
principle of "Solving on the Spot" in dismantling, land acquisition and
resettlement.
36.    The project will benefit the development and utilization of tourist resources
since it has little effect on wildlife resources.
37.    The estimated investment in environmental protection for Xiangtan-
Leiyang expressway amounts to 21.2032 million Yuan which is 0.51% of
the total investment, i.e. 4.204509 billion Yuan (except riantaishan-
Yishuhe highway). Environmental beneft achieved by the development
projects exceed the environmental loss. The adverse impacts brought
about by the development projects are environmentally acceptable.
Moreover, the alignment environment along the existent 107 national
highway will be greatly bettered. Situations are similar for Loudi-Lianyuan
and Tiantaishan-Yishuhe highway.
38.    Special environmental protection organizations have been set up to
implement all protection works. And these organizations will be perfected
gradually to do satisfactory protection work
39..   Fcur plans has been  worked out, which include Environmental
Management Plan, Environmental Supervisory Plan, Environmental
Monitoring Plan and Environmental Action Plan.
16



Appendix I.
China National Highway 11 Project
Hunan Xiangtan-Lelyang Highway and Linking Roads
EAP Key Elements of Loudi-Llanyuang and Tlantaishan-Ylshuhe Roads
Environmental      Measures taken or to be taken    ImplementinglResponsible
Issue                                               lOrganization Organization
A. Design Phase
1. Alignment The alignment is selected from 3 alternatives so Designing   HPCD
as to minimize the land occupation, air pollution Unit
and noise's impact on residences, to avoid
unfavourable geological conditions and cultural
relics. The alignment selection of Loudi-
Lianyuang and Tianaishan-Yishuhe roads have
also taken into consideration of environmental
elements
2.         416 passageways (including 22 overpasses) are Designing   HPCD
Interference  designed for Xiangtan-Leiyang highway. 48  Unit
on People   underpasses and 3 overpasses are designed for
Loudi-Lianyuang highway; as to Tiantaishan-
Yishuhe road, 6 underpasses are designed to
meet the needs of the local residents and
_vehicles
3. Soil     * In slopes and suitable places along the  Designing   HPCD
Erosion     roadside, bush, grass will be planted and  Unit
retaining wall, water intercepting ditches,
masonry rubbles will be built to prevent soil
erosion.
a Temporary and permanent drainage system
are designed to minimize the soil erosion and
the impact on irrigation canals. The affected
ponds should be reexcavated (relocated)
__________ =affected pond (irrigation pond)      _
4. Dust/air   Besides the measures in ftem 1, earth  Designing   HPCD
Pollution    borrowing sites, waste disposal sites and  Unit
asphalt mixing sites are identified to concem
with the environmental issues like dust and
Isimilar residences.
5. Water    Sewage disposal facilities are designed at the 3 Designing   HPCD
Pollution    service areas of Xiangtan-Leiyang highwayto   Unit
treat the sewage before entering into public
water source.
6. Noise    Besides the measures in Item 1, measures as  Designing   HPCD
sound barriers, building and heightening fencing Unit
walls are identified and incorporated into the
design and tendering documents.
7. Cultural   Survey has been made on the line. 3 ancient   Hunan  Hunan
Relics     tombs discovered along the alignment will be   Provincial   Provincial
excavated prior to construction          Archaeological Cultural
Institute  Relics
(HPAI)     Bureau
_ (HPCEB)
17



(continued)
Environmental      Measures taken or to be taken     Implementing Responsible
Issue                                                Organization Organization
8. Flood    Bridges and culverts have been well designed  Designing   HPCD
for the purpose of the flood discharge (Xiang-  Unit
Lei highway. three hundred year flood frequency
for big bridges, one hundred year flood
frequency for others ;Loudi-Lianyuan highway
and Tian-Yi roads: one hundred year flood
frequency for big bridges and fifty year flood
______  frequency for small bridges            I
B. Construction Phase
1. Dustlair   * Water should be sprayed during construction
Pollution   phase, in the line and earth mixing sites, asphalt|
mixing site and temporary roads. In filling  IContractor   HPECDC
subgrade, water spraying .s needed to solidify       Xianglei
the material. After the impacting, water spraying    Highway Co.
should be regular to prevent dust.
* Coal ash to be used should contain 30%
water content or more to prevent the ash from        Loudi-
dispersing. In warehouses and piling yards, esp.     Lianyuang
the coal ash should be covered, except they are      Highway Co.
to be used immediately.
* Vehicles delivering materials should be            Hunan
covered to reduce spills                             Provincial
* Residences should be 5OOm from downward            Highway
wind direction of asphalt mixing sites.              Admiristraton
- Mixing equipment should be well sealed and
vibrating equipment should be equipped with
dust-remove device. Operators should pay
attention to their health .
2.Soil      * In slopes and other suitable places along the Contractor   HPECDC
Erosion/     roadside, trees and grass should be planted,        Xianglei
Water        esp. on sections with high filling and deep         Highway Co.
Pollution    cutting, their slopes should be covered by
stone walls and planted with grass, etc. If
existing irrigation and drainage system, ponds
are damaged, they should be rebuilt or              Loudi-
recovered by suitable means                         Lianyuang
* Limestone and coal ash should be stacked           Highway Co.
together and fenced by bricks or earth wall, and
kept away from water.                                Hunan
* In sections along the river, earth and stone       Provincial
will be properly disposed of so as not to block      Highway
rivers, resulting in adverse impact on water         Admirnistraton
quality
* In building permanent drainage system,
temporary canals and culverts will be built for
._ _the sake of irrigation and drainage    !
18



(continued)
Environmental      Measures taken or to be taken    Ilmplementing  Responsible
Issue       I|Organization  Organization
s  All necessary measures will be taken to
prevent earthworks and stone works from
impeding the rivers and water canals or
existing irrigation and drainage system.
* All justifiable measures will be taken to
prevent the waste water produced in
construction from entering into rivers and
irrication systemr
3. Construction * Sufficient measures will be taken in the    Contractor    HPECDC
Camp          construction camps, i.e. provision of garbage       Xianglei
tanks and sanitation facilities. Waste in            Highway Co.
septic tanks will be cleared periodically
* Drinking water will meet China National
Standard                                             Loudi-
* Garbage will be collected in a tank and            Lianyuang
disposed of periodically                             Highway Co.
* Special attention shall be paid to the
sanitary condition of camps                          Hunan
Provincial
Highway
Adminisbtation
4. Noise     * Noise standard of industrial enterprises will Contractor    HPECDC
be strictly enforced to protect construction        Xianglei
workers from damage. Workers in vicinity of         Highway Co.
strong noise vill wear earplugs and helmets
and their working time should be limited.           Loudi-
*  In construction sites within 1 50m where,         Lianyuang
there are residences, noisy construction             Highway Co.
should be stopped from 22:00-6:00
Maintenance of machinery and vehicles              Hunan
should be enhanced to keep their noise at a          Provincial
minimal.                                             Highway
Adrrmnistraon
5.Conservation * To preserve the forest, earth borrowing,    Contractor    HPECDC
of Eco-       piling & building temporary camps are               Xianglei
resources     prohibited in forest lands.                         Highway Co.
* Arable lands should not be used as earth
borrowing whenever possible. If needed, the          Loudi-
opsoil (30cm) should be kept and refilled after      Lianyuang
the construction is over to minimize the impact      Highway Co.
on ecosystem and agriculture.
* Construction workers should be told to             Hunan
protect natural resources and wild animals.          Provincial
Hunting is prohibited                                Highway
* Construction vehicles should run at                Administraton
temporary accesses avoid to damaging arable
. lands and cattle-raising lands.
19



(continued)
Environmental       Measures taken or to be taken    Implementing Responsible
Issue                                                Orqanization  Omanization
6. Accidental * To ensure safe construction, in the  Contractor    HPECDC
Risks        temporary accesses during, construction,             Xianglei
lighting devices and safety signal device wvill     Highway Co.
be installed, meanwhile in these temporary
accesses, traffic rules and regulations will be
actively enforced.
During construction, effective safety and
warning measures will be taken to reduce             Loudi-
accidents. The blasting time, signal and             Lianyuang
guarding will be regulated, the people and           Highway Co.
vehicles within blasting area should be
removed timely                                       Hunan
* Priorto blasting, thorough inspection              Provincial
should be made                                       Highway
. Safety lookoutwill be built to prevent             Administation
people and vehicles from passing after
blasting. Blasting will not be made in rush
hours so as not to cause traffic jam and injury.
* The management and use of blasting
|materials will be in strict conformity with the
IsafetY requirements of public security.
7. Cultural    * If valuable or invaluable articles as fabrics, HPA!  HPCRB
Relics        coin, artcrafts, structures or other geographic
or archaeological relics were discovered it
should immediately notify the local related
department The excavation should be
stopped until authorized department identifies
them
* Archaeologists will supervise the
excavation to avoid any damage to the relies.
8.           * Local materials should be used as much as
Communica-   possible so as to avoid long distance   Contractor    HPECDC
tions &       transportation, esp. that of earth and stone.       Xianglei
Transportation * If traffic jammed during construction,           Highway Co.
measures should be taken to move the jam
'with the coordinabon of transportation and           Loudi-
public security department                           Lianyuang
* Temporary access should be built in the            Highway Co.
interchange of the highway and other roads.
* Passing time on National Highway 107 will          Hunan
be limited, similar measures will be also            Provincial
applied to roads with traffic jams                   Highway
l________________________________           _______ Administation
* Materials may be delivery in advance in
relatively leisure season of traffic (Jan/Dec,
Sept/Oct.)
* A transportation plan of materials will be
formu!ated to avoid delivery of them at peak
hours, esp. on existing roads
20



(continued)
Environmental         Measures taken or to be taken    Implementing -Responsible
Issue        1                                          Organization  IOrganization
C. Operation phase
1. Accident of * Regional or municipal transportation  Xianglei      Xianglei
hazardous     bureaus will set up respective transportation  Highway Co.  Highway Co.
materials     coordination unit for hazardous substances.
a For delivery of hazardous substances, three Loudi-    Loudi-
certificates issued by transportation     Lianyuang     Lianyuang
department are required-permit license,   Highway Co.  Highway Co.
drMing license and guarding license. Vehicles
delivering hazardous substances will be   Hunan         Hunan
printed with an unified signs             Provincial    Provincial
* Public security, transportation and     Highway       Highway
firefighting departments will designate a  Admirnistrabon  Adrninisratlon
special route for these vehicles. These
vehicles can only harbored at designated                EPO of
parking lots.                                           HPCD
* For management of this project hazardous
substances, the highway management
department will administer it by registration
system.
. In case of spill of hazardous materials,
report to the relevant departments at once and
deal with it in accordance with the emergency
plan
2.Vehicle    * If the noise of vehicle is excessive, the  Xianglei   Xianglei
Management  vehicle is not permitted to run on this     Highway Co.  Highway Co.
highway until the problem is solved. Exhaust
inspctfion will be enhanced. Unqualified  Loudi-       Loudi-
vehicles are not allowed to run on this  Lianyuang     Lianyuang
highway                                  Highway Co.  Highway Co.
* Public will be educated about the
regulations on air pollution and noise of  Hunan        Hunan
vehicles.                                 Provincial    Provincial
* Bulk cargo such as coal, cement, sand,    Highway     Highway
etc. easily spilled or pollute over the highway, Adrninistration  Adrministrafon
will be inspected, prohibited vehicles carrying
these cargo but not having protection                   EPO of HPCD
measures from running on this highway
3. Noise     According to monitoring results, at places with Xianglei Higlhwy lianglei Highway
excessive noise, sound barriers or other  Co.           Co.
measures wIIl be adopted.                 Loudl-Lauiag  Loudi-Lianyuang
mighaey Co.    Highway Co.
Hxan Provincil  Hunan Provincal
Highway     Hlgtay
Administration    Administration
I EPO of HPCD
4.Maintenance The drainage system will be periodically  Xlanglei Highway  Xangaei Highway
of Drainage   cleared so as to ensure the water flow.  Co.            Co.
System                                                 Loudi-LianWg  Loudinyuang
Highway Co.    Hghuwy Co.
Hunan Provincial
Hunan ProvinciaI Highway
Highway       Administrdtion
_Adminstration    EPO of HPCD
21



(continued)
Environmental      Measures taken or to be taken    Implementing Responsible
Issue'                                               Organization Oraanization
5. Others    Buildings are prohibitive within 50m of the   Xiange Hghway XiangIei Hghway
road. No schools and                   Co.         Co.
hospitals are allowed within 200m from the  Loudi-LganyCong Loud-Llanpang
roadsides of Xianglei highway, 1 00m from    Hian Proviniaal
the roadsides of Loudi-Lianyuan and Tianyi  Hunan Provincial Highway
roads                                  HIghy       Admiistration
_ _________________________________    Admhstralion  EPO  of HPCD
D.Environmental Monitoring
1 .          (1) Construction Phase                  Local       Supervision
Atmosphere  (a) Monitoring Item TSP                  Monitoring   Co.
(b) Monitoring Frequency onetweek      Station
Length of Time 1 days
(d) Monitoring Point Main construction sites
and materials transportation roads near the
sensitive points
(2) Operation Phase
Ca) Monitoring Item: TSP. NOx. CO      Local        Xianglei
(b) Monitoring Frequency twice/year    Monitoring   Highway Co.
(Jan. July) CO. one/year             Station     Loudi-
Length of Time: 5 days                           Lianyuang
(d) Monitoring Points: 6 locations on Xianglei     Highway Co.
highway, 2 locations at both Loudi-Lianyuan
and Tianyi roads                                   Hunan
(3) Monitoring Standard                            Provincial
Atmospheric Monitoring Standard Issued by          Highway
the NEPA                                           Adrinistration
EPO of HPCD
2. Noise    (1) Monitoring Frequency                 Environment  Supervision
(a) Construction Phase: 1tweek         Supervision   Co.
(b) Operation Phase: 4/year            Erigirieer    Loudi-
(2) Monitoring Points                  (Hanglei    Lianyuang
(a) Construction Phase: Construction sites   LgcaY)  Highway Co.
within 1.50m of which there are residences or Local
sensitive units, waste disposal sites, delivery ftton  Hunan
roads, quarries                                    Provincial
(b) Operation Phase: 13 locations in earlier  Xianglei Co. Highway
period on Xianglei highway and 22 points in Local  Admiristabon
middle period; 2 locations on Louudi-  supervision  EPO of HPCD
Lianyyuan, Tianyi and other linking roads    station
(3) Monitoring Standard
Existinp noise standard issued by the NEPA
3. Water     (1) Monitoring Item: BODs, COD, SS,     Local       Supervisory
Quality        OIL                                   Monitorng   Co.
(2) Monitoring Frequency:              Staton
Construction phase:3 timeslyear,/day
twice/day
Operation phase: once/year
(3) Monitoring Points: 2 points on
Xianglei highway
(4) Monitoring Standard
_Water quality standard issued by the NEPA
22



Appendix 11.
Atmospheric Environment Monitorlng Plan of the Main Line
Phase     Monitoring   Monitorng Montoring   Lengtol Samo1l    _mg  Iniplemortlng Responsible Supervisory
Place      Item       Frequency   ThWi                     Organization Organizatin Organiation
Construc- Main                                        In constructon
ion Phase construction                                 tkne, once hI   Local      Supervision  Local
skes and      TSP    onml week   I day    the mornring and monitoring   cornpanY    EPBs
tranupoit                                   In the evenig   stations    EPO of
roads near                                                              HPCD
the sensitive
poWs of
residences
Opertion  Kianglel       NOx   lin Jan. and   5 days  7:00  10:00
Phase     highway:              July                   1400 17:00
Taui          CO      Jan (Winter)                         Local        XIanglel
Hepawan                               -on* ornOg   Compary   Local EPBs
LiubukongO    TSP    one In Jan      5 days oce in the     stations
Yhan school           and July              moring and In               EPO or
Seguchang                                   aliemoon                   HPCD
Hongshi
School                                                                  Lou&
Guuangtan                                                               Lianyuang
kBo*                                                                    Co.
Tlanw road:
school
Cihu schod
highway:
Macping
scoo In
Note: Moritorng frequency Subject to achal situaton.
Noise Environmental Montorl g Plan of the Main line
Phase      M1ontong Place Monitoring Monkoring Length of Samping       Implemening jResponsible Supersory
______I________            tem       Frequency Tine      Tome         Organization IOranation Or nizatlon
Construction within 150m                                  twice In a day EP         Supervision  Local
Phase   .  where there are                               in constrution Supevisory  compary    EPBs
residences or                                 time         engineers
sensitive areas    Noise   once)     I day
(school)                  week                             Local       EPO of
consctin ste                                               monkoring   HPCD
waste pits,                                                station
transpont roads
and quaffies
Xnglel highway.
Widng
roadsLoulan
highway and
Tan road)
Early      I(langlei
operation    highwa.
phase       Yuane school,                                              M Xanglei    Xanglei
Heawan,                                                    Comparny    Corpany
Chan  In.                                                              Lowd-
Chongtou school                                            Local       Llariyuang
Jiongshi. Batou.                                           monioring   Co.
Tahxi.           Noise   4t 1res     2 daYs  10:00-11:00  station       EPOof      Local
Ceguuchang               year                 22:00-23:00               HPCD       EPBs
|Lhbul g.
23



(continued)__ _ _ _ _                                                _ _ _ _ _
Phase       Monikoring Place Monttoring Monikoring Length at S.mplng   mrnpiementIng Responsible Supervisory
Item      Frequency iTme      Tlne         Orpnlatlon Orgnnizaion Organizallon
Hongshi school,
Guanibng Raops.
, Lbnalgowan.
Loullan
higway:
Tangpi vmage,
Mooping middle
school
Tlanyi road:
Clhu school.
Xianfin school_                                  _
MMedium    Added:
term        Xbanglel
operation    highway:
phase      Talgio school,   Noise    4 tlmes/   2 days   10:00-11:00 Xlan&iel      Xianglel
Yitian school            year                 22.00-23:00 Company    Company
Raojb. Wumring
vilage. Dapig
schoo
DaoipIng school
Yanqiao school                                             Local       Loudi.
Zhongiawan                                                 Monilorng   Lbanyang
Lann                                                       Station     Co.
Unking roads:
LFlaaowu,
Shangwan vilbge
Loullan
highway:
Maoping middle
=_ _ _ _ _  s h o          _ __ __ _ _  _ hod ___           =_            _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
Note: Random Monitoring
'VWater Quality Monitoring Plan of the Main Line
Phase      Montoring   Monioring Monitoring   Length SarrpingrTe  Imlrnementig Responsible Supervisory |
Place      hem        Frequency   of rmge niiOrgarition  Oranition                        on
Suroundings  CODcr  3 tiresyar
of Maphe              once in             once In morning Local      Supervision  Local
Xiangjang    SS       every low    1 day and another In  monitoring   comparny    EPBs
Bridge                water               aftemoon       stations
Surroundings BOs    season.
Construction df Zhuthig           medium
Xlanpang   Petroleum  water
Bridge                season, Ngh
Sumundings            water
drTangpo              season
Zhashti
lBrFed_
Surroundng   CODcr
of Majahe                                 onceinthe      Local                    Local
Xlangang     SS                    I day morning and in monitoring    Xlanglel    EPBs
Bridge                                    the aftemoon   statons     cornpany
Surroundng BODs
Operation   of Zhtting            Once/year
Xiangjiang   Petroleum
Bndge
Surroundhg
of Tangpo
Mishui
lBridge
Note: The specific place for quality monitoring may be agreed upon with local EPBs, may
also be identified as the customary monitoring place of EPBs, whose data can be applied.
24



Appendix m3L
Environmental Supervisory Plan
Phase   Organization            Supervision Contents   Supervision Obiectes
FIS     National Environmental   1. Review TOR         1. Guarantee a complete
Phase   Protection Agency                              Environmental
(NEPA)                                         Assessment Contents
Hunan Provincial                              appropriate topic setting
Environmental Protection                      obvious emphasis.
Bureau World Bank      2 Review the           2. Make sure it reflects
Environmental Impact    those possible, significant
Assessment Report      potential problems which
might be produced by this
3. Review EAP Draft    project
3. Guarantee a concrete,
viable action plan of the
____ ____ _ _____   mitiaation measures
Worid Bank NEPA        1. Review the preliminary  1. Strictly execute "Three
Hunan Provincial       design of environmental   Simultaneousness" and
Environmental Protection  protection and EAP  EAP
Bureau (EPB)                                      .-
World Bank             2. Check the availability of 2. Guarantee
NEPA                   environmental protection  environmental protection
investment             investment
Hunan Provincial       3. Inspect the         3. Ascertain these sites in
Environmental Protection  appropriateness of  compliance with
Bureau (EPB). Prefecture, material yard, and lime-  environmental protection
Design & municipal and county   earth mixing site.     requirements.
Construc EPBs
-tion                           4. Inspect dust and noise  4. Minimize the impacts
Phase                           pollution control, decide   on the surrounding
the construction time  environment by
implementing applicable
regulations and laws
criteria
5. Inspect the stack piling S. Minimize the impacts
of loading and unloading on surrounding
of hazardous substances. environment by
the discharge of       construction, enforce
atmospheric pollutants   applicable regulations and
laws goveming
environmental protection-
6. Inspect the discharge   6. Guarantee the surface
and treatment of daily    and underground water
waste water and waste   uncontaminated
machine oil in construction
__________________________  site
Hunan Provincial       7. Recover and handing of 7. Guarantee the
Environmental Protection  the earth borrowing and   landscape and land
Bureau                 waste sites             resources not seriously
Cultural Relics                                damaged
Archaeological Research
Institute of Hunan Province
25 



(Continued)
8. Inspect the liiree  8. Guarantee the Three
Simultaneousness" of    Simultaneousness
environmental protection
facilities, identify the final
date.
Hunan Provincial      9. Inspect whether the    9. Qualifj environmental
Environmental Protection  environmental protection  protection fhcilities
Bureau National       facilities meet standard
Environmental Protection
Agency Hunan Provincial 10. Inspect the existence  10. Protect the cultural
Cultural Relics Bureau    of cultural relics under   relics
___ground
Hunan Provincial      1. Inspect the          1. Make sure of the
Environmental Protection  implementation of EAP   implementation of EAP
Bureau                in operation phase
2. Verify the          2. Make sure of the
implementation of      implementation of the
monitoring plan        monitoring plan
3. Verify the necessity    3. Protect environment
for unforeseen         consciously
environmental problem
Operation  Hunan Provincial      4. Inspect whether the    4. Intensify
Period    Environmental Protection  environmental quality of  environmental
Bureau Prefecture,    environmentally sensitive  management, to
Municipal, County EPBs  areas meet relevant  safeguard human health
quality requirements
5. Inspect the sewage    5. Guarantee the
disposal of living ari  sewage discharge meet
servicing areas       the standard
6. Inspect whether the    6. Guarantee the
pavement drainage      drinking water source
getting into drinking  uncontaminated
water
Hunan Provincial      7. Intensify supervision    7. Minimize risk of
Environmental Protection  to prevent unexpected    accidental spill of
Bureau                accidents, work out in    hazardous substances
Public Security &     advance an emergency
Firefighting Departments  handling act to eliminate
leakage of dangerous,
hazardous substances
in case it happens.



Appendix IV
Summnary o Environment Investment
No.       Item       [Description          Quarnity    Unt       Amount   |        Remarks
I_____________  1I_______________  11000  yuan  1000  yuan  I
Planting trees on  Embankonent. side  length   20yuan/lon  4294.8     Incluing interchanges, soi
I  highway sides    slope. foot and top of 214748rn            (Xianglel    excavation area arbor 30800
tree            the cutting        Bush 34563              highway)   trees. cistance between trees
Arbor                   1192.00    and ines is 4m
168929                  (Lolan
hghway)
321.29
2    Grass            Slope plant                               (riarnyi road)
3    Plat belt       Hongshi school                              20.00      wkth 10-20m. bngth 200m
(middle lern)                                        i
4   Sound Barier    Three in short-term   30OnVplace   0.3      360.00     Sound Bar2ler heig0t 4m,
_ _  _ .  _      _              | ~~~~~~    ~~yuanrmZ   lenwth 200m
5   Resettlement     Changyuan School          I                300.00
Residences within                                     50 famikles . totals 224 people
Dismantling     25m from the        10 places   20 /romrn   2000.00
roadssides (Xianglei
higtway)
Residences within
30m from the      10 families   20thrrly  200.00
roadsides (Loulian
highway)
6   Heigten fences    2 in short-terrn (main        65/place    130.00     Heigten to 3m
lne)
2 in mediumterm
flnkdno roads)   I651pbace                130.00_
7   Build fencing wals 2 in short-term   500m       a. 1rrt    150.00
(Xianglei highway)
13 in medium-term    3250m     O. I5'       975.00
1 in short4erm       200m      0.11m2        40.00     2.Dm high
(Lolian highway)
1 in middle-tern     200m      0 11 n2       50.00     2.Om high
a(Tanyi road)
8    Set p traffic signs I'No Trmpeting signs
in early phase        2pcs      1 /piece     2
9    Planting         Zhuting. Dap.        3 places     200.00    600.00
Leiyang service area
Loulan highway toll  5 places
stations                      50.00/place   250.00
10   Sewage disposal  Zhuting. Dap.
facilities in service Leiyang,       3 place    600.00      1800.00
areas           Hengyuan                      LI                      I __                      _
11   Protection of   Survey and                    1             1150.00
culural relics  excavation
12   Monitoring fee    Spervision station.  I       Construction   1584.20   1287.3 yuanLyear (including
Local monitoring              Phase                  1connecting roads). (including
station. EP section of                                Iconstrction and operation
yXianglei Company.             Operation    5332.00   Iphases)
Local EPB                      Phase        650.00
Luuuolian highway,                         Lolian
Tianyi road                                highway)
-    671 20
13   Emergency                                                   (ianrri road)I
13  lEmergency       I                 I           I150.00
27



Table 13 (continued)
No.      ftem        DescripUon         QuarFity              Amount           Remarks
1 DOO yusn  IOO0 yuan  I
14  Training        0Tr.ining for     Twice In                         training fee for managemert
personnel of     China, once               74.00   staff has been hicluded In the
enfironmental    abroad                            EIP Technical Aid Project of the
managemedw                                         WNB. Therefore. not listed here
WTrining for
persormel
environmei
I         _ 5~~~UperAsioin
15   Frefighting     Each staffed wvth 6  2       30 US S     60 USS
vehicles       pernons
16   Emergency cars  Each staffed with 3  5       30 US S    150 USS
persons
17  Noise intrument  One set for each    7        6uss       42 US S    other 3 to EPO of HPCD
supeNison station
1B  Cornputer                           4                    12 USS
Note: G) The cost of reclaiming land and pond has been included in the resettlement cost
therefore not listed here. Refer to RAP.
0 Purchasing cost for watel spraying vehicles is paid by contractors not listed here.
(3 The costs for intersepting ditches, slope protection, passageways are included
into the construcSion cost.
Implementation Progress of Major EP Measures
hem                    1995          1996            1997            1998           1999
______  _1l3F   z7~  _f3                                                    4121314
Dismantlng, land
acqusiton               I-I_                                                 _
Heightenirng fences,    r                  r                T              r_ 
buridmg wals            I  I        I I         I           Iwa_s
Sound bamer           -  -  -   -                   _   T             H      -   -       -
Sewage disposal         ;
'faciUfes in serviceI
areas
TrairnI for                     I               I         I             I          I 
superv isory staff                      1                                  1
Trairing for11I                                                                                  I
ernAronmerdal ~ ~ ~      ~    ~     2



Appendix V.
Summary of Social Investigation
I Whether support the             Yes           100%      Remark
construction of the highway     No            0%
__________________         Uncommitted       0%
2 Who benefits from the        Individules      9096      Some select two
contruction of the Highwya     Unit          80%       or three iterns. so
State         100%      the percentage is
more than 100%
3 Whether know of relevant       Clear          92%
stipulations conceming the  Not very clear    8%
construction of the highway with   Not clear  0%
_vou
4  Understand the policies        Yes           85%
concemig land acquisition &
resettlement                    No           15%4
5 Whether abide by the resettling  Yes          100%
policies                        No            0%      .
6 What requirements on          Economic        100%      Some selects
resetilement               conpensation                more than 2. so
Resetilement      96%      the percentage is
locally                  more than 100%
change ot iob     4%
7 Which kind of pollution exerts   Traffic noise  15%     Some does not
greater impact on you       Automobile        5%       tick off, so the
exhaust                  percentage is less
Lime-earth       10%      than 100%
Inconvenience     40%
of accessibilily _
8  What mitigation measures to be Planting trees  80%     Some suggests
taken                       Build sound       2%       more than 2
barriers                 measures, so the
Far away from     40%       percentage is
.________________  villages           .    more than  100%
29.



Social Suurvey of LoudllLianyuan Highway
*__________          In  estigation Statistics (I)
Investigaion    Attitude to the   Impact After Construction  Requirements on
moIm          New Hiahwa                                   Pollution Mitioaon
Classification   Support Uncom  Atmos- Noise  Dust  Incon- Highway Sound Others
mitted  phere                venient planting Barier
______ _____ _   ___ ___   __ ____   _____ A ccess .
Quantity        428            159    278    121    145    360    135    87
Percentage(%)   100%           33%      %    25%    30%    75%    28%   18%
Investigation Statistics (11)
Item      Whether know the    Whether abide by the    Requirements on resettlement
compensation       removal &
policy on removal &    resettemernt
resettlement        .
Yes      No        Yes  Uncommitted  Economic   jResettle change of
I_______   ________   ____________ compensation   -ment  employment
Quantity     46.3       19     472       10           424       34        24
Percentage   96%       4%     98%        2%          88%        7%        5%
30



Appendix Vt.
Noise Criteria for Urban EnvironmentGEB3096493)
Category   Day      Night              Applicable Zone
0       50       40    Special Residences
1       55       45    Residences, Education and Cultural Zone
2       60       50    Residences, Commercial, Industrial Mixed
Zone
3       65       55    Industral Zone
4       70       55    Two Sides of Trunk Highways
Quality Criteria for Atmospheric Environment (GB 3095-82)
Pollutant            Concentration limit (mgIm4)
Name _I
Value measurement   class I       class 11   |  class ill
time                          .    _   __
TSP   daily average         0.15         0.30          0.50
anytime              0.30         1.00         1.50
IP    daily average         0.05         0.15         0.25
any time             0.15          0.50         0.70
S02  annual & daily         0.02         0.06         0.10
average time         0.05          0.15         0.25
daily average        0.15          0.50         0.70
any time         .
NOx  daily average         0.05         0.10         0.15
any time             0.10          0.15         0.30
CO    daily average         4.00         4.00         6.00
any time            10.00        10.00        20.00
03                          0.12         0.16         0.20
Surface Water Quuality Standard (GB-3838-88)
ory   Class II         Class II    C Ia   Class IV    Class V
adard VaeF
Parameter ~ - _ _ _  _   _ _  _ _   _  _ _ _   _  _ _ _
PH                             6.5-8.5                      6-9
DO          Satuation      6          5          3          2
_______ 90%                        1           0
COD s        Below 15   Below 115                 20        25
BOD5 s        Below3        3          4          6         10
Lead          0.01       0.05        0.05       0.05       0.1
Petrdeum s     0.05       0.05        0.05       0.5        1.0
31



THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
NATIONAL HIGHWAY 11 PROJECT
XIAOTANG-GANTANG EXPRESSWAY IN GUANGDONG PROVINCE
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
GUANGDONG PROVINCIAL FREEWAY COMPANY
GUANGDONG, CHINA
DECEMBER, 1995



Content
1    General  Introduction .........................................  1
1.1 Background Description of the project
1.2 Assessment Scope, Standard
1.3 Environment Protection Aim
1.4 Assessment Items
1.5 Brief Introduction of the project
1.6 Environment Impact Identification of the Project
2   Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures ................ 4
2.1 The Present Situation of Environment
2.2 Environmental Impact in Construction Period
2.3 Environmental Impact in Operation Period
2.4 Environmental Mitigation Measures
3   Environmental Action Plan .................................... 15
3.1 Environment Management Organization and Their Reponsibility
3.2 Environmental Training
3.3 Environmental Monitoring Plan
4   Land Acquisition and Resettlement ............................ 23
4.1  Land Acquisition and Demolition
4.2 Compensation
4.3 Resettlement
Annex
Table:   Key Elements of the  WAP for Xiaotang-Gantang Expressway
(National Lighways II Project)
Figure   Environmental Sensitive spots Map for Xiaotang-Gantang
Expressway (National Highways II Project)
Figure  : Environmental Monitoring Map of the EAP for Xiaotang-
gantang Expressway (National Highways II Project)



1 Genneral Introduction
1.1 Background Description of the project
The project of Xiaotang - Gantang expressway in Guangdong Province is one
part of the Beijing-Zhuhai highway which is one of the national program-ed
two key "crisscross" national arteries. In 1992, Guangdong Provincial
Cozmunications Department (GPCD) issued No.853 (1992) Document which says
that the department entrusts No.2 Highway Reconnaissance and Design
Institute of Ministry of Communications (MOC) to prepare feasibility study
report of the project of Guangdong section expressway of JZNAH. Meantime,
in 1993, GPCD issued No.371 (1993) document which says that the department
entrusts Shanghai Ship and Shipping Research Institute (SSSRI) of MOC to
prepare the environmental impact assessment for the Guangdong section
expressway.
1.2 Assessment Scope, Standard
(1) Assessment Scope
Air                 .Within 200 m from roadside of the proposed line.
Noise                 Same as above.
Soil and Vegetation :Same as above.
Water Quality       :For ordinary water area: Same as above.
For water resource: Within 1000 m from central line
of the proposed highway.
Landscape             Within 500 m from central line of the proposed
highway.
Historic Relic        Within 1000 m from central line of the proposed
highway.
(2) Assessment Standard
Air: Adopt Class 2 of "Ambient air quality standard" (GE3095-82)   For lead
dust, "Sanitation Standard of Lead and its Inorganic Compound of Air in
Residential Area" (GB7355-87) is adopted.
Noise: Assessment is carried out according to "Standard of Environmental
Noise in Urban Area" (GB3096-93). Class nI noise standard(GB3096-93) will be
applied  to  schools  and  large   residential  areas  identified   as
environmentally sensitive areas, and Class IV noise   standards to other
residential areas. For construction period, "Standard of Noise limit in
Construction Site"(GB12325-90) -is adopted.
1



Water Quality: Assessment is based on class 2 of "Environmental Quality
Standard for Surface Water "(GB3838-88).
Soil: Assessment is based on the background value of soil in the area
where the proposed expressway will pass through.
1.3  Environment Protection Aim
Protect the sensitive objects such as villages, schools, rivers, cultural
and historical relies along the alignment. Environmental sensitive spots
for Xiaotang-Gantang  refer to figure
1.4   Assessment Items
The major environmental assessment items of this project are defined by
scopeing process, the main research work is broken down into the following
nine subjects:
1. Assessment of ecological environment and precious wild living.
2. Assessment of acoustic environmental impact.
3. Assessment of public views.
4 .Assessment  of  the  impact  of   disastrous   weather  condition  on
expressway   operation.
5. Assessment of atmospheric environmental impact.
6. Assessment of water environmental impact.
7. Assessment of social environmental impact.
9. Mitigation-measures for the environment protection.
9. Analysis of economic loss and benefit.
Former five of the above nine are major assessment items.
1.5 Brief Introduction of the project
GP section (Xiaotang-Gantang) of JZNAH is located at northwest of Shaoguan
city, GP,  112' 55'--1130 30'  to eastern  longitude,  24' 25'--250 20' to
northern latitude, starts from Xiaotang where Hunan province and GP meet,
passes down through west Lechang mountainous area and Ruyuan county, to
Gantang of southwest suburb of Shaoguan city through Qujiang county.
This highway is wholly sealed, wholly overcross, access controlled
expressway which adopts two-way four-traffic-lane expressway standard.
Total length of this road section- is 109.8 MI, the entire road sections
2



are divided into heavy rolling area and mountainous area and two
respective standards are applied. It is 72.8 Km in mountainous &rea and
31 .0 Km in heavy rolling area. The topography through which this route
passes is complicated, the project engineering is gigantic, thus,
construction is difficult.
The entire road section has 6 mutual open grade separation, 2 service
areas  (Laopinshi of   Lechang county, Dongtian of Ruyuan county ), all
together seven toll stations are set up at mutual open ramp.   The entire
line has 3 super-large bridges, 29.5 large bridge, 9 medium and small
bridges. There are 18 tunnels, 267 culverts on the whole line.
Total amount of the investment estimation of this project is 5.455 billion
PRBY.  The project fund  is planned to be collected through several ways:
World Bank loan, MOC subsidy and local fund raising.
1.6  Environment Impact Identification of the Project
The total length of GP section expressway (Xiaotang-Gantang) of JZNAH is
109.8 km, it is located in mountainous area of northern GP. There are a
number of mountains, high mountain ridges, crisscross gullies and valleys
in the belt area along the line. Rivers run intensely, which forms various
canyons.  Due to the topography, most of the highway is required to go
along the mountain slope.  Blasting cliffs to build highway, and huge
amount of cut and filling earthworks are imperative.    Rather serious
ecological environment damages may occur such as water and soil loss,
vegetation destruction, during the highway construction; large amount of
earth works and spoil treatment are among the major characters of this
project; due to the huge scale of the expressway construction, lazrge
amount of land and woodland are required, which will bring about some
irApacts on agriculture, wild animals and plants.   The impacts of the
project on the above ecological environrment are the main itms of the
assessment. In addition, various machinery will be used for complicated
construction during the highway construction, which will bring about
environmental pollution such as flying dust, tar, smoke, piling noise, atc.
After completion of the highway, a large amount of traffic will go through
the highway, which will generate traffic noise, vehicle exhaust gas and
dust pollution, vehicle lead pollution on soil and vegetation along the
line, water  and  soil  loss  caused  by  collapsing,  landslides  in  the
mountainous areas, all these are the items which need iLasessment.
Additionally, through site survey and investigation, we found that Eongyun,
Daqiao and so on of Ruyuan county have harsh meteorological character such
3



as foggy weather, due to the influence of the topography, which will have
dangerous impact on the operation of the expressway.
Summarizing the above, the environmental assessment item  and key points
listed in Section 1.4 are determined.
2 Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
2.1 The Present Situation of Environment
(t) Natural Environment
The belt area where the line will pass through is basin-hill-basin
alternated landform. It is a typical Red Cloud landfozm from Xiaotang to
Pinshi.  The line passes through middle section of Nanling mountain area
from Pinshi to Ruyuan county. From Ruyuan to terminal Shaoguan (Gantang) ,
the line enters Qujiang basin terrain, which has undulating hills.
The rivers in the area by wh_ch the line passes are mainly Wujiang branch
and Nanshui branch of Beijiang water system.  The rivers along the line
are not open to navigation.   Due to the large slope drop of the river
along the line, water resources is abundant, they are mainly used for
hydraulic electrogenerating.
The climate along the line belongs to subtropical monsoon climate zone,
the climate character is: the air temperature is quite high throughout the
year, rainfall is abundant, it is cloudy and drizzly in spring, hot and
rainy in summer, dry and cool in autumn, rainfall is scarce in winter,
there are short-term of intense cold and frost, iour seasons are distinct,
no frost period is long, plant grows in flourishing way.
Average air temperature along the line is 19.8°C around the year. Annual
average rainfall along the line is 1560--1800 mm over the years.
Yearly dominant wind direction is N wind in Lechang county, average wind
velocity Ss 2.3 m/s, yearly dominant wind direction is WSW wind in Ruyuan
county, yearly average wind velocity is 2.1 mr/s.
D type stability shares the highest frequency in the whole year's air
stability frequency distribution along the line, covers 61.19.
There is also special mountainous climate along the line. Main characters
are: many foggy days, etc.. Vile foggy weather is a serious threat against
the security of expressway operation.
41



(2)  Social Environment
The proposed highway is in the north of OP. Seriously restricted by local
geographical environment and infra-structurs, the economic and living
condition of this area is at a rather low level. Ruyuan county is one of
the poorest area in Guangdong Province. Technical grade of the original
highway transport system in this  area is low.   However,  it has rich
resources of forestry,  mineral,  electricity and tourism.   It is the
important production base of raw mat-rial, fuel and energy in GP.
(3)  Eco-environment
Plant and aniaal resource along the alignment are abundant, there is South
China Tigers, leopard, etc.  But, now they are basically extinct because
of other highway operation and economic activities.
Forestry and agriculture are major activities of agriculture eco-
environment.  The lead content in soil is lower than evaluation standard.
As the area is mainly mountainous and rainy, water and soil loss occurs
heavily, especially in karst area.
(4) Existing Acoustic Environment
The existing acoustic environment is good along the proposed line.
Assessment result of noise all meet the standard during the day, Only the
night noise value at a few monitoring points near the road exesed the
stipulated standard limits. The noise criteria are as follows:
Class 2 standard     daytime 60 dBtA), nightime 50 dB(A)
Class 4 standard     daytime 70 dB(A), nightime  * dB(A)
(5) Existing Air Quality
Air  quality  along  the  proposed  highway  is  gooO.    The  background
concentrations of NOx, CO, Pb dust are good, TA&y -are lower than
assessment standards.   The background concenttratij-i  of T.S.P. are a
little bit higher than the standards, about 20% of daily average data
exceed the standards. Various pollutants standard value are as follows:
NOx: daily average 0.10 mg/m3    any time 0.15 Mg/=3
CO:  daily average 4.00 mg/n3    any time 10.00 mg/On
TSP: daily average 0.30 mg/m3    any time 1.00 mg/rn3
Pb:  daily average 0.0015 mg/m:3
(6) Water Environment



The existing water quality of pH, Pb, 0OD& and Dissolved Oxygen meets
national surface water class 1 standards.   Oil and SS exc--d standards.
SS meots water class 3 standards, while oil is ranging from 1-3 standards.
2.2 Environmental Impact in Construction Period
(1)  Impact on Eco-envirorment
a. It is known from Impact Analysis of the project on wild animal that
the rare wild animals such as Southern China Tiger, have been mainly
killed by human beings, not by environmental destruction of their habitats.
There are no more such rere animals along the alignment.
b. According to analysis of waste soil impact, excavation amount ib much
more than filling amount. we should take necessary measures to deal with
large smount of waste soil and tunnel waste, which will destroy vegetation,
influence relic and cause water and soil loss.
C.  Highway construction will cause certain water and soil loss.  After
necessary measures are taken, water and soil loss can be decreased to
minimum. Therefore, highway construction must take measures to prevent
water and soil loss.
(2) Impact on Acoustic Environment
In construction period, various kinds of mechanical equipment will
generate loud noise, at 15 meters away, the noise is as high as 75--105
dB(A).  Noise influences will be serious on surrounding environment.  We
should take necessary measures.
(3) Impact on Air Environment
The rain air pollution of highway construction is short time dust
pollution. Dust pollution is from flying dust of earth mixing and vehicle
transport. Should ash earth be mixed in a factory, the dust pollution at
the construction sites can be decreased to minimum.
(4) Impact on Water Environment
The highway and bridge construction gives temporary and slight influence
on rivers and a reservoir along the alignment.
(5) Impact on Cultural relics
6



Based on the results of cultural relics survey along XGZ, there are two
tombs and four archaeologically sensitive sites. Necessary protection
measures must be taken during construction period.
2.3   Environmental Impact in Operation Period
(1) Eco-environment
Highway construction gives little influence on agriculture and forestry.
Furthermore, highway construction is helpful to form new agricultural
structure and enable the forestry give further play.
The Pb in the exhaust gas of vehicles will not have serious influence on
crops and soil.
(2). Acoustic Environment
After the highway is put into operation, traffic noise will greatly affect
sensitive points. It is 66.7% exceed standard in short term and 75%
exceed standard in medium term, 83.3% exceed standard in long term.
Among the villages along the alignment, 23.9% exceed standard in short
term, while 40.0% and 52.2% in medium and long term respectively.
Therefore, the problem of noise exceeding standard is serious.  We must
take necessary protection measures against noise.
The traffic noise of interconnecting roads has little effects to the
surroundings.
(3) Disastrous Weather
The disastrous weather in this section (particularly from Daqiao to
Hongyun) mainly refers to fog, heavy rain, ice and snow, which are serious
threats to the operation of the highway.  The administration authorities
of highway should pay attention to it and equip the monitoring system.
(4) Air Environment Impact
After the highway is put into operation, exhaust gas of vehicles gives
small influence to air environment and air quality basically meet the
standard 2 in short and medium  term.   But NOx exceeds the standard
seriously in long term, it will influence greatly on air quality.
(5) Water Environment Impact
7



After the highway is put into operation, runoff flow on pavement gives
little influence on surface water quality.  Water quality will maintain
existing level.
(6) Social Environmental Impact
The proposed highway will promote economic radiation from near-sea zone to
the inland regions, accelerate economic development in northern GP,
improve living quality of residents in mountainous region. Meanwhile, the
rich forest resources, mineral resource, electricity resources and tourism
resources will be fully used to accelerate overall development of GP.
2.4 Environmental Mitigation Measures
2.4.1 Environmental Protection Consideration during the design stage and
in the engineering design.
(1) Hignway design consistent with city plan, avoid relic sites historic
interest.
(2) Rationally arrange the excavating and discharged earth, land leveling
of excavation and filling at site should be fully considered, reduceing
discharged earth.
(3) Rationally design cossing passway of the road, goth convenience of
transport and saving of money should be considered.
(4) Shaoguan area is rich in heavy rain, so it belongs to areas liable to
water logging. Integrated drainage system of pavement should be designed.
(5) To minimize the damage of accidental spill of hazardous materials on
the important water sources, crash barriers will be strengthened in the
sensitive sites and drainage systems will be reinforced 'to lead drainage
water to less sensitive areas, or construct drainage water storage pits
with equipment to stop water flow at an emergency situation.
(6) In view of the huge quantity of excavation works, spoil disposal sites
will  be  carefully  selected  in  consultation  with  local  environmental
protection bureaus(EPBs) to minimize the possible environmental impacts.
(7) Noise barriers and other noise protection measures identified in the
EAP will be incorporated into the final engineering design and the bid
documents in due course.
8



2.4.2 Environment Protection measures in Construction Period
(1) Countermeasure against Vegetation Destruction
a. Except for inevitable loss (for instance, construction land occupation)
the scope of vegetation destruction caused by construction should be
strictly controlled.   Any other type of manual destruction such as
lumbering for fuel, should be forbidden.
b. When the construction is completed, all kinds of fast-grow grass should
be promptly planted so as to accomplish grass-covering in area of
water soil piles, mountains excavated and edge-slope.  To facilitate
vegetation recovery and formation of multiple-layer vegetation, grass
is first planted, then trees.
(2) Measures Against Water and Soil Loss
a.   The exposure surface of hill and gully in construction should be
reinforced in time.   When earth and stone project of roadbed is
completed, slope-protection work should be promptly done with fast-
grow grass or trans-planting grass cover. This is an effective way to
prevent water and soil loss and to recover vegetation.
b. Considering that this area is a mountainous area, edge-slopes of the
highway  should  be  protected  with  slurry-lining.    Slurry-lining
protection should be completed best before local rainy season.  This
work and highway construction can be done at the same time.  When
mountain cut-down area is large and high, load-reducing work should be
considered. For instance, to set up a terrace on a slope and afforest
the areas so as to protect slope from water and soil loss.
(3)   Disposal of Discharged Earth and Tunnel Discharged Residue
Spoil disposal sites will be carefully selected in consultation with local
environmental protection bureaus (EPBs). The places for piling up should
choose wasteland as first priority, compress waste earth in time, and
plant grass, bush or tree on it to protect from water and soil loss and
also to beautify the environment.  Besides, we can also level the waste
earth and use it as arable land.  The total quantity of earth needed to
take is small, the waste slope and piled earth should be considered first
as the places where earth is taken from. After the earth is taken, these
places should be planted soon.
9



There are many tunnels in this project, and a lot of tunnel residue will
be produced, so the explosion mode should be adopted according to design
so that the maximum diameter of stone is limited, then the stone can be
used for filling.   In this way, the quantity of stone for disposal is
reduced, the volume of waste stone is small ---- easy for transport and
piling. The places for piling up wastes should be wasteland with less
plants on them, which should be surrounded by short walls to prevent water
and soil loss.
(4)   Rare Wild Animals Protection Measures
It is known from Impact Analysis of the Project on Wild Animals, that the
rare wild animals, such as Southern China Tiger, are mainly killed by
human beings, not by environmental destruction of their habitats.
Therefore, during construction, the administration department of the
proposed highway should strengthen propaganda and education on wild animal
protection policy to the constructors, all constructors are strictly
forbidden to kill rare wild animals.  After being put into operation, on
either side of the highway in mountainous area, distinct boards 'No
Killing Wild Animal' may be erected so as to strengthen people's
consciousness of protection wild animals and to follow relevant state laws.
(5) Noise Protection Measures During Construction Period
a.   The  noise  measurement  of  mechanical  equipment  to  be  used  in
construction should be made -n advance.  Those equipment which exceed
National Standard should not be put into use during construction.
During construction period, the maintenance of the equipment should
often be made to avoid noise enhancement due to poor performance of
the equipment.
b.   The boundary of construction  site should be defined according to
"Limited Noise Value Standard of Construction Site" (GB12523-90).  So
the construction site should be rationally arranged, and there should
not be residential area within it.
c.   Various kinds of mechanical equipment used in highway construction
will produce considerably loud noise, especially the pile-driven
machine, its noise strength may be as high as 100 dBA. Therefore, in
resident-concentrated area such as Laopinshi town, Daqiao town and
Ruyuan town, the time of construction should be arranged in the
daylight, and night construction is strictly forbidden.
(6) Protection Measures Against Air Pollution During Construction
10



a.  The construction sites, especially stone and sand pits, should be
sprinkled with water to decrease dust quantity.  The sand pit is far
from the construction site, the average transport distance is 21.31 km.
Subsidiary roads which are used for transportation of    construction
materials should avoid big residential area, and should be sprinkled
with water. The vehicles loading sand and stone should be covered with
tarpaulins and should be driven at medium or low speed.  The loading
quantity should be restricted so that the sand or stone will not be
spilled.
b. Lime, cement, sand and stone should be mixed in a station which should
be carefully selected so that it is far from residential area and
sensitive points  (at least  farther  than 250 a).   Besides,  dust
removers should be provided in the station.
c. Although the quantity of tar needed for this section is small, its
decoction should be done in a sealed factory equipped with dust
removers.
(7) Protection Measures of Water Environment
a. The construction materials (such as tar, oil and chemicals) should not
be piled up near rivers.  They should be carefully piled up and far
from rivers, so as to be prevented from leaking into rivers by heavy
rain.
b. Living wastewater of construction staff should be treated by a septic
tank and direct disposal into the river should be strictly forbidden.
Garbage should be piled up in a temporary place, and should be emptied
regularly and moved to the garbage station of nearby town. There can
not be thrown into the rive and influence water quality.
c. During the construction of bridges, the slurry should be taken up to
the ground or shipped to designated places for disposal, it can not be
thrown into the river to spoil water or to block the river.
d. The management system should be strictly followed, the construction
machinery should be maintained regularly so that there will be no oil
leakage to pollute the river.
(8) Preservation of Cultural and Historical Relic
11



a. At K91+700-800, the tomb of the Nan Dynasty sast to the Jingtou'Village
of Ruyuan County and at 1105+550 - 650, the tomb of the Song Dynasty behind
the Longgui Middle School of Qujiang County, should be engaged in
archaeological studies  and excavated  in  accordance with the  Cultural
Protection Law of PRC. The costs of excavation are estimated to be about
500,000 MBY.
b. At 1107+800, the cross road of the expressway and National Artery
Highway No.323, only a hundred of meters from the expressway to the tomb
of Minister Yujing of the Nan Song Dynasty, so during the period of
construction there, attention must be paid to the excavation and hilling
of earth and stacking of materials. The construction makeshift road is to
be far away from the tomb in order to protect it.
c. An authorized archaeological expert will join the environmental
supervision at archaeologically sensitive sites. (x4+750 - 850, 190+350 -
450, K105-X105+250. R107+800)
d. If some relics are found at the above archaeologically sensitive sites,
please tell the local cultural department, or the Guangdong Cultural
Relics Archaeology Research Institute.
Besides, during the construction period, when fossils, coins, valuable
articles or historical relics , architectural structure and other articles
of historic interest are found, it should be reported to relevant
government department so that these goods will not be moved or destroyed.
2.4.3 Environmental Protection Measures during Operation Period
(1) Greenization Along the Highway
During operation period, bush and grass should be planted in the central
separation belt of the highway so as to prevent dust, to decrease noise
and to beautify environment. Except for tunnels, the length of the highw&y
which needs greenization is about 90 km, and the total investment is
estimated as 3.6 million RB. The greenization along the side slopes has
already been taken into account in the project and has been included in
the budget of project, so it is not to be repeated here.
(2) Protection Measures Against Noises
Noise mitigation measures in sensitive points along the alignment can be
seen in table 2-4-1 to table 2-4-4. The total investment of 1,160,000 RMM,
including 800,000 JRM for 2 noise barriers, 360,000 RIB for 9 brick walls.
12



Table 2-4-1    Sensitive points exceeding the standard more than 5 dBDA) in 2005
No. stake   Sensitive         Standard Exceed the standard   Sound mitigation measure
No.     point                       2005    2010   2020
1 K11+000 Zhanqjiawan of                 7      a     10    Brlek wall
Lechang
2 K25+700 Shiduriia of                  11     14      16    Sound barrier, length 200m
Lechang           Class
3 K85+200 Cheng2in Village               6      7       9   Brick wall
of Ruyuan         two
4 K90+500 Xinmin Primary                 5      6       8    Brick wall
School of Ruyuan
5 X105+900 Longgui Middle               10     11     13    Sound barrier, length 200m
School of Ruyuan
6 K24+300  Tianliaoxia                  B.8  10.3   12.0 Partially  demolished,houses
of   first   row   used   as
warehouses. If the noise
level can not meet the
Class                         standard, the brick wall or
sound barrier could be used*
7 X25+000  Woli               four      6.6   8.0    9.8  Brick wal1
8 K27+700  Jitou                       12.7  14.2   15.9   Same as 6                    *
9 K28+500  Wangjiajing                  6.9    8.3   10.1  Same as 6                    *
10 R41+200  Xiagui                      12.7  14.2   15.9  Same as 6                     *
11 R(47+350  Xiazhang                    8.   10.4   12  1   Same as 6                   *
Remark: The sites of the demolished hLouses and the sites of first row houses refer
to anex figure.
Table 2-4-2     Sensitive points exceeding the standard more than 5 dB (A) In 2010
No. Stake     Sensitive   Standard    Exceed the standard        Sound mitigation measure
No.         point                   2005    2010   2020
1 X0+200   Aobeidong   Class four    4.3    5.S    7.5               Brick wall
2 R45+900  Zhongzhang  Class four    4.3    5.8    7.5               Brick wall
3 X102+350 Xinruwu       Class four    4.3    5.8    7.5             Brick wall
13



Table 2-4-3    Senslttive poalnt exceadlng  h  standad more than S  dS (A) Ln 2020
o. Stake      Sensitive        Standard    Xzceed the standard   Sound mitigation
a.         point                       2005   2010  2020         measure
1 X85+250 XLnzu Primary      Class two      3.0    4.0   6.0        5riik wall
School of Enyuan
2 X95+660 Qlaoajig PrS.azy Class two        1.0    3.0   5.0        Brick wall
school of Ruyua
Table 2-4-4     Sensitive points zceseding the standard less than 5 dB(A) in 2020
No. Stake    Sensitive point               Standard Eveed  the standard Mitigation
No.                                              2005  2010  2020 masures
1 X1l+000 xiaojiawan of Lechang                      --     1      3  Noise
2  X28+000 Jitou Prismry School of         Class      3     1    --  monitolng will
3 K29+350 Lechang                           two      --    --      1  be continued
4 X45+250 Dafu Primary School of Lechaxig               -- __      1  and If  the
I       Xeshuxia of Hon.az                                          noise levels
5  X2+750   Yanjiax±nwu                              -_   0.8   2.4  ezceed  the
6 X5+400   Jiangjiaba,                                     --   0.2  standards
7  R7+550   Wallaor.La                               __    --   1.6  significuntly
B X9+400   Xiaoshuikeng                              __   0.2   1.9  appropriate
9 X25+200  Cheyinuia                                 __    --   1.6  mitigation
10  X26+500  Caojiapin                      Class    __    __    0.7  measures will
11  X26+900  Qiaotou                                  __   O.3   2.2  be taken
12  139+450  Gaojia                         four      __   0.7   2.4
13  X57+400  ShangmexzJi                             1.3   2.9   4.6
14  X59+780  Huangjia                                 --    --   1.4
15  X59+800  Zouwu                                    --    --   1.4
16  X60+450  sigang                                  1.1   2.6   4.4
17  X69+400  Daliaozia                                --    --   1.8
18  X90+800  Jiangtoudengwu                           __   0.1   1.8
19  X98+850  Xinchaisan                               __   1.0   2.8 
(3)  Protection Measures Against Air Pollution
Forest belts will be constructed for those si:tes where significantly high
NON concentrations are predicted, such as Longgui Middle School of
Shaoguan. For Longgui Middle School, on the basis of sound-proof wall, a
forest belt which is 200 a long and 20 a wide should be set up, which will
need an investment of 0.2 million yuan.
14



(4)   Protection Measure of Water Environment During Operation Period
In this section we have 2 service areas, they are in Laopingshi, Ruyuan
Dongtian. All these 2 service areas are close to town, we suggest their
wastewater pipe connected to local wastewater network.
(5)     Countermeasures to the Influence of Disastrous Weather on the
Operation of the Highway
a. The administration authorities of highway should set up weather
forecast system and provide accurate and timely service for the safe
operation of the highway.
b. The monitoring system should be equipped so that the vehicles and
dynamic conditions can be monitored.
c. Due to the fact that there are often heavy fog in the section from
Daqiao to Hongyun, the detection system of ground visibility should be
equipped, which makes use of mechanical visual sense of closed circuit
television, followed by picturization processed by computers, finally
detects the visibility.    Then,  according  to different  levels  of
detected visibility, we can decide the allowable speed of vehicles.
d. In case of extra heavy fog, heavy rain or serious icing of the pavement,
the administration authorities should restrict the speed of vehicles
or ever close the expressway to guarantee the safety and avoid traffic
accident.
(6)    Emergency Plan for the Leakage of Dangerous Chemicals in Traffic
Accidents
Emergency team should be founded by administration authority of highway
environmental protection.  This special team reinforce traffic management
of vehicles transport toxic and harmful chemicals, prevent leakage of
dajgerous chemical.  Once the accidents take place, the team should be in
charge of managing -staff, vehicle, equipment and medicine, promptly make
emergency measure, to control the accident scope to the least extent.
3 Environmental Action Plan
3.1  Environment Management Organization and Their Reponsibility
15



Related organization of EP of this project can be divided as: management
organization; supervision organization; implementing organization.
(1) Management organization
WBFO of GPCD will be responsible for organizing project feasibility study
and  project  enviroment  impact  evaluation;  making  EAP;  coordinating
environmental   management   (EM)   among   responsible   departments   and
construction units; directing construction units to carry out EM measures;
periodically reporting project EM to Guangdong Environmental Protection
Bureau (GEPB) and the WB.
(2)   Supervision Organization
Classified Management system was taken to meet the need of our county's EM,
ie. state, MOC, province, city and county have their own environment
organizations in charge of daily  EM in the administrative districts.
(3)   Implementing Organization
Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company (GPFC) , which is the construction nit
of this project, will be reponsible for carrying out EPA and supervising
it.
a. One senior level manager in GPFC will have clear assignment to be in
charge of environmental protection of expressways. The Environmental
Protection Division (EPD), currently staffed with six staffs, will manage
and promote environmental protection of expressways including Xiaotang-
Gantang Expressway.
b.   One or two well trained  full-time  environmental staff will be
assigened to the XGE Preparation office.
c.   Three environmental offices will be set up separately at Lechang,
Ruyuan and Qujiang.
d.   One or two part - time environmental supervisors will be assigned
separately to each contract section for XGE to carry out environmental
supervision and noise and dust monitoring during the construction.
e.    The Environment Monitoring station  (EMS) under the EPD of GPFC will
carry out all the   environmental monitoring works regarding XGE except
noise and dust monitoring during the construction stage.
16



f.  XGE  Freeway  Company  will  operate,  maintain  and  manage  XGE.  A
environmental branch office with one or two environmental staffs will be
set up under the XCE Freeway Company.
g.    In the each pesition of service regions for pinshi and Dongtian and
Daqiao parking one part - time environmental supervisor will be assigned
to carry out noise and dust monitoring during the operation stage.
Operation chart of EP related organizations of Xiaotang to Gantang
expressway project are shown in figure 3-1-1 and 3-1-2.
3.2 Environmental Training
(1) Five senior environmental staffs from GPFC will be despatched abroad
to attend a seminar of highway project environmental management fox
two weeks, and to investigate the freeway environmental management in
other countries.
(2) Six environmental staffs form Environmental Protection Department and
XGE Preparation Department will be despatched abroad to undergo an
environmental protection training for two months. Among them two ro
three staffs will undergo an advanced training in environmental
protection fort two months. When they return home, a course of
lectures for two weeks will be hold to teach their capability and
knowledge got aborad.
(3) A one month training course in the environmental supervision and
monitoring, especially in the noise and dust, will be hold in
Guangzhou for the supervisors (about 20persons will attend it).
(4)  A one moth training course will be hold in Guangzhou for about ten
environmental supervisors, and five supervisors will be trained further at
home for two months.
3.3  Environmental Monitoring Plan.
(1) Monitoring Organization
During the contruction and operation period of the Expresway, EMS of
GPFC will be reponsible for the whole line monitoring (noise and dust
monitoring would be carried out by environmental supervisors of each
contract sections for XGE during the construction stage and by
enviromental supervisors of Pinshi service region, Dongtian service
region, Daqiao parking during the operation stage), which include
17



Environmental Protection
office of GPFC(6)
Environmental Protection Section
of XGE Prepartion Office (1-2)
1-2 Part-time Environmental              1-2 Part-time Environmental                   1-2 Part-time Environmental
Supervisors of                           Supervisors of                               Supervisors of
1st Contract Section                     2nd Contract Section                         12th Contract Section
Figure 3-1-1 Environmental Management of Jing-Zhu National Artery
Highway:Guangdong Section (Xiaoteng-Gantang) In the Construction Period
18



|Environental Protection
office of GPFC (6)
|Environmental Protection Section
of XGE Prepartion Office (1-2)
1 Part-time Environmental                  at tim  Envr        talF1                1 Part-time Envirorwmental
Supervisors of                          Supervisors of                               Supervisors of
Pinshi Service Region                  Dongtian Service Region                           Daqiao Parking
FIgure 3-1-2  Environmental  Management  of  JIng-Zhu  National Artery
Hlighway:Guangdong Section (Xiaotang-Gantang) In the Operation Period
19



personnel training and emergent monitoring of unforeseen pollution
events.   Monitoring equipment and cost are placed in this item.
(2) Implamentation of Normal Monitoring
The key points of monitoring are air, water quality, noise. Monitoring
methods are fixed-place method, moving-place   method, fixed time method
and combined with unfixed time method.
Air Monitoring
a.   Monitoring item: NOx, CO, TSP, Dust, THC.
b.   Monitoring time and frequency
construction period: once a week for dust, others are 6 terms a
year, 3 days a term, 4 times a day
operation period:   monitoring will not be taken for dust, others are
4 terms a year, 5 days a term, 5 times a day
c-   Monitoring point
construction   period:   Zhangjiawan(111+000),   Xiaojiawan(Rll+100),
Shidunxia of Lechang        (R25+700), Reshuxia  of Hongyun  (K45+250),
Daqiao town of Ruyuan ({S0+650), Minzu Primary School of Ruyuan
(K85+250), Chengxin village  of Ruyuan  (C85+200),   Longgui Middle
School of Shaoguan (1105+900), Gantang (X109+000) , Daqiao Town
Quarryand and a rebuild temporary road of 2.0km (53+000), temporary
construction project of Dongtian Flyover roadbed(KP75+300), borrow pit
at Yumin Village(klOl+550).
operation  period:  Zhangjiawan   (111+000),  Reshuxia  of  Rongyun
(K45+250), Minzu Primary School of Ruyuan (185+250), Longgui Middle
School (R05+900)
d.   Monitoring Technical Criteria
According to the present Air Monitoring Standard Methods issued by
NEPA.
Surface Water Monitoring
a.  Monitoring items: pH, BODs, Dissolved Oxygen, SS, Temperature, Petrol
kind.
20



b.   Monitoring time and frequency
construction period:
3 terms a year (half, low,and normal water level), two continuous days
a term.
operation period:
3 terms a year (half, low,and normal water level), two continuous days
a term.
c.   Monitoring Cross-sections
Wujiang Laopinshi Cross-section (K11+546), Yangxi River Daqiao Cross-
section (R51+800), Nanshui Reservoir (KBO+800).
d.   Monitoring Technical Criteria
According to the present Water Quality Monitoring Standard Methods
issued by NEPA.
Noise Monitoring
a.   Monitoring Time and Frequency
construction period:
once a week, 1 days a term, twice a day (including one Sunday)
operation period:
4 terms a year, 3 days a term, twice a day (including one Sunday),
adding Monitoring point in Minzu Primary School of Ruyuan county for
24 hours continuous automatic monitoring.
b.   Monitoring Point
Zhangjiawan(Xll4000),   Xiaojia.wan(Kll+100)    Shidunxia  of  Lechang
(K25+700), Keshuxia of Hongyun (K45+250), Daqiao town of Ruyuan
(K50+650), Minzu Primary School of Ruyuan (R8S+250), Chengzin viLlage
of Ruyuan (K85S200),   Longgui Middle School of Shaoguan (R105+900),
Gantang (K109+000) (except operation stage), Daqiao Town Quarryand and
a rebuild temporary road of 1. Okm (X53+000) (except operation stage),
temporary     construction     project      of    Dongtian      Flyover
roadbed(KP75+300) (except operation stage), borrow pit at Yumin
Village (kll+55O) (except operation stage)
21 -



c.   Monitoring Technical Crieria
According to the present Noise Monitoring Standard Methods issued by
NEPA.
Monitoring of Lead Content of Soil and Crops
a.   Monitoring items: soil, rice (lever part)
b.   Monitoring time and frequency
construction period: not arranged yet
operation period: once or twice a year
C.   Monitoring point
operation period: Zhangjiawan of Lechang (Kll+000) ,Sampling at 30m,
lOm and 200m from both road sides. In each site. Sampling form
surface, 15Sm and 30m depth under ground.
d.   Monitoring Technical Criteria
According to the present Monitorig Technical Standard Methods issued
by NEPA.
(3) Procurement of Environmental Equipment
The 15 sets of domestic sound-level meter will be procured under the N32
Project. The price of one set is 5000 RM. The total is 75,000 FM. No
other environmental equipment will be procured under the NH2 Project.
15 sets of portalbe sound level photometer will be bought for monitoring.
The price of one set is 5000 M- . The total is 65000 MM.
3.4 Cost Estimation of Environment Protection Facilities
Investment estimation of environment protection facilties refers to table
3-4-1
22



Table 3-4-2 Estimation of Environment Protection
Investment on GP Section of JZNAH (Xiaotang-Gantang)
Item                eanse(10,000 yuan)
Gr.en.inq cost for                     360
environment protection
Sound barrier                          so
Brick wal                              36
Forest belt for air                    20
Watering truck                         40
Software                               55
Costs for excavation of                so
cultural relics
Environmental training                 80
Procument of environmental             7.5
equipment
Total                                 728.5
Cost of no-mal monitorLng       419,000 RBMV/Year
in construction period
cost of normal monitoring       111,800 MsBY/Year
in operation period
Cost of emergent monitoring             5
4 Land Acquisition and Resettlement
4.1 Land Acquisition and Demolition
The Project occupies land permanently of 10,874.36 Mu, in which paddy
field is 3000.01 Mu, dry field 2038.89 Mu, vegetable field 51.18 Mu, fish
pond 192.05 Mu, forest land 4189.21 Mu, orchard 287.1 Mu bamboo plantation
1.30 Mu, homestead 25.45 Mu, waste land 923.69 Mu, other land 62.01 Mu,
land for reconstruction 103.47 Mu. Temporary land occupation is 1286.1 Mu,
in which paddy field 309.5 Mu, dry land and other types of land totaling
976.6 Mu.
The attachment to be demolished in the project sums up to 29335.51 m2, in
which 20506.39 m2 of houses, 8629.12 m2 of threshing ground and enclosing
wall, etc. In addition, houses of 2160.3 m2 will be demolished for the
purpose of noise mitigation measures.
The project will impact on 2866 household, among which 2789 households
will be affected by land acquisition, among which 2789 households will be
affected by land acquisition, 427 households by demolition, in which 281
23



households will los1 their living houses and 204 households will loss both
their living houses and farmland. A total of 14 enterprises and
institutions will be demolished and 354 staff will be affected along the
whole route.
4.2 Compensation
The compensation of the project totals 148.305 million yuan, in which
103.643 million yuan is for permanent land acquisition, 4.199 million yuan
for demolition, 5.083 million yuan for temporary land, 7.257 million yuan
for attachment, .5S0 million yuan for enterprises and institutions, 3.7705
million yuan for administrative fee and 18M8525 million yuan for reserve
fund.
4.3 Resettlement
Sampling survey of PAPs shows that 1000 of them require economic
compensation, 97% want to be settled down nearby and only 3% demand to
change their professions.
Based on the requirements of the masses and the relevant policies of China,
the resettlement should be tackled through adjusting land, improving the
original farmland, rearranging land for reconstruction by relevant
department of government and taking advantage of the compensation for land
acquisition and resettlement to develop agriculture, industry, sideline
and tertiary industry in order to help the PAPs settle down.
24



*a3l        I Kev Elements of ihe EAP for Xinota.ig-Gnntang Expresswvay (Nlional I lighways 2 Project)
I.nviroaaaaeaitul       AcUlon I akeisIIo lie lTken                                                                      Rusfonsihililv  Remarni
Issues
A. Desienll hase
1. Ronle Seleciion      The alignment was selected from Ihree aleniatives with due tconsideration to miinmrze land acqubitlon,  GPCD/CI'FC
inipacts of sir pollution and noise on residential.areas, and to avoid unfavorable geological conditions
drinking water sources and cultural/archaeological sites
2. TraMc Inierference   76 passageways wvere designed to meet the requirenients for crossing or local people, animals and  GPCII/GPFC
vehicles.
3. Soil Erosion         Planting ot trees and grass on median divider, sideslopes, anid along the roadside, was Included In  GPCI)/GPFC
the design where appropriate. Slope proleclion, such as relainting walls, were incorporaled in the
design.
Temporary and permanent drainage systemiis were desigined to minimize soil erosiont and alteration  GPCI(;PFC
of hydrological regimes, licluding imp)acts on irrigatioll channels.
4. Earilnworks          In view of huge quantities of earthworks, (Iise conisidieration was given to property allocate roadbed
earihworks. Qniunies and borrow sites were selected, taking into account the dusst and other problems
at environmentally sensitive loations such as residenlial areas
5. Water Poilution      Wiste wvacr treatment facUilies were designedl for service areas. drain sewage wil be channeled into  GPCDIGPFC
local sewage drainage systems
6. Noise                Adequate measures such as noise barriers, brick walls were identified and integrated in the design and    GPCD/GPFC
bid documenis Transition slabs were designed at ite head of bridges to reduce noise and vibration
caused by jumping ofvehicles at tlhe head of bridges.
7. Flooding             All bridges mnid culverts were adequiately sizedl to meet requiremenits for sare discharge oa design nlood    GPCI)I(; 1'1(
(300 years for supler-large bridges, I U yeasn ror ullier bridges aind culverts).
I.



f nvironin,etal           Action 1 altenil o lie Takeq                                                                           ResnxmosisiliUv  lleinarks
Isstues
8. Ctlikural Relics      Cultural relics survey was carried outl. Based on tlic survey resulis, an archlneological cxcavation plan  GPCINIGPFC, GPICRA
w*s5 develope,d for two sites wvill aiscicut t lmbs.
9. Afforesiatdon         Allorestallosn pllau was developed to redilice nir -pollution problemits atnd ena.Ilsaee becer lanidscape.  GPCIVIGI'FC
A frctst heltv wills 200 mu lenglti uuidl 211 in widi iln ill lie coisi'rucled ala lgouggl1i Mliddle Schlool to
mininhniLe nii- l,UllitiuII prolilemis elc.
10. Accidental Spill or   To minimize the damage of accidentaI spill orflazardous materials on the important water sources,      GPCDIGPFC
liazardoais INlaterials  crash barriers will be strengthened in suicli sensitive siles, and drainage systemils wvill be reinforced to
lead drainage waler to less sensitive areas or to consirtc drainage water storage pits with equipment
to sebtp water flow at an emergenicy situation.
n. Conlstr¢ctio Plrns.
1. Dust/Air Polltllon    All reasonable steps, includinig watering, wvill be takems to minimize dust pollution during            Contractors
construicion, particulariy l iiplaces near towns.
Stoclipiles anid storage areas will be far away rromt residetlintl areas on thle lee side of the
wind direction. Slockpiles and storage nrens vill be covered or watered to prevent dust
plIlullon. 'rrncus lo tranisport conislruictlu niil(erisis will lie covvreud by canvans to mimuinii ize
siills.
Asphalt mixinig sites will be located al least 500 to froni residenitial areas on ilte lee
side or iie wind direction.
Construction machiniery will be equipped withl aldeqate dutist collectors.
2. Soil Erosion/WtAner    Trees sand grasses waill be planted on sidle slope, anid alonig htie ronacside, wilere appropriate.    Conmractors
Pollulion             Alipropriate measures, eilter rehabilitation or icco isirticloin, will be takeus, irthie existing
irrigation or drninage systenms are daninged.
All necessary measures will be takeni to prevent eanril & siones frono siltillg til) riven, wnter
cianniels, or existing irrigalloii and draiminge systemils. Constriction camps will be located rar
away from Yanghe and Qinglonglinii rivers, which are used ror dimiiliug water sources.
2



Egivisoisnicitital         Action Takenl'to lie Tntkeii                                                                                Rcsnonsiluitl    Reniarks
Issules
1 c.illolul, cliniuscl or cuitniii vill he chiistiauctLed fot- ijurigutlion  nd dulr iinge, during the
coaasitruacioiu  of perauinanen,l drniujige systellls.
All reasonable nieasuirers will be laken to lprevent direct discharge of polilted water From
constrtictioni activities into rivers and irrigalion chnnnels.
3. Nukii'                 Noisv cuuusitruucliouu wDrMlL  will nu(it lie uutiri lthen 11iiuriluiM te itiglit liltie (2l:1111 - 6:00).  Co(ti-aclurs
Ir costructlion activilies atre uundertanck  at iuiglit timiie, a vritteii nlliroval of ilte local
govei nment nnud tlie envilrotnienital pirotectioni blurenu iteeds to be obinined.
Maintenance ormachines anid hauliuig trncks will be strengthe.ned. Effective numMers
will be equipped. Noi5e proorfmeasuires suchl as noi5e barr iers and brick walls at sluitable
places will be considered.
4. I'rotection or land    Forests ivill not be tseui ror miaterial horrow siltes.                                                      Conlrarlors
Resonarces
Araile lnnd will be avoided as mtnerial borrow sites wherever possible. If excavation hAs
to be done in arable land, top soil layer will lie staved amid retursied after conisrtrction
work Is coplileted, so as to nuiiiiaizze linpaucis on ecosyslenm amid agricuiltire.
Education ot construction workers will be strengthened to protect nattiral resources, wild plants
and aninials. Pooaching wil be strictly prohibited.
Spoil disposal will be carricd out lis at nA mnuler notl to cnuis danilge to Fiarniland and other raciliies'
anid not to block river water flow. Spoil disposal sites will be carefully selected in consulntaion with
local euuvironumental prolecilon burcaus.
5. Culitiual Itelics      Excavation will be stopped imnmedintelv if aiy culitral relics are fotimid, aid tile locIl cultural aithority    CoIItractors/
will be iiirormed of stucl discovery. ExcValtioII will 10ot be resuInied untli Identfircation OrculIural    GIPICRA
relics by the aiuthorized lisilitition is completed aind tiecessariy preservationi measiures idenlilled. An
arclieologicial expert will joini emivir uiil eiituu suilervisioiin t tlhe archincologiciuhly sensitive areas during
the construction activilies.
6. Consiruiclion CAmps  Seplic tanks and sewage trenimetut fncililies will be installed at Ite consitrction canip sites as             Coutracturs
approlpriate. Sludge in sewage treatnitplilsit vill be disiposed of regulariy. D)riuuking water will meet
the WIIO Idrinidiuig water stnedlards.
3



Plal licuiInr atteiutioau will be lpitid O snailiury colntiolnils orcoiuiriictilot cantutilas slle Garba]ge will be collected lit grnu   gr vnil nl11 fixed
locationus nalli disposed of regaloarly.
7. 'Uirnnispuralonl          hatling tOniIe OrcoIIstIrCtiioII mateimnls %illv ;I) sclected in n cnrerfil Iinnilr I1 nit iiiiiiuiilze Imieiferetice  CoIInIrurs
tSlailaigelielil         witli eXIsIalig coiiiiiin,icniloiai raCIIltiCS, niiil dltts uIaid ialIti.
Adleap1inlt nciIos to direct Irialic wVill bhe Inkhel In coIISIIIIalloioi villI co-autnaicnilons miud lIUblic
secrIIIily departmenlts, to preveni Or no uiziill§e IrfnllC Jniis dUril1g (he conIs(rtuc((onI period.
Where prnoiosedl roatOds cross (lie eXiSiuIIg rOndls, temuporary se-vice rondsll II be conihiiticted as
appraorlinte.
Pimiat friO tinumpurinatio  orcoinsinctio,u mg,aterinals will be dIevelopied to avo(i iGrniuolaoil actIvItIes dUring
IlOIIe5 orlucuk imuilhiC eslpec;iIlly fUr exisliig roadls.
8. C.usiiiiUcticloI Snrely   lit Oider to glanialite conIstriulction sarety, etlcicult ligliuduug equipment ailnlid sarfly sligns       CoIItractoIs
will lie liks1tallCdI o1 leon  lnorary rondts sIUrilag llte cosius ,tciloau, nmid adeqatile IroNillc
reguilitl{otIs u 1 Ibe adoipIed na11l Implemnented rUr lemapo)ornay ronls.
0               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D)uring itie conisiruictlon, effective arely mid wnvariainsg ieasisea es svill be adopted to
reItiuce Accldleiits. illasliug Iliane, signals aiith giannis will be stipulaled. I'eoplIe mid
veliicles In dalngerouis areas will be evactiedt ii intier. Thlorouigli cliecks will be iainde
lierore lilas(Idng. Ilastiiig will ot10 be cnrried ou1t Iuirlig peAlk work p# MOdS so na to
voId Irnnilk jniuis, Iiijiiries ai  deatilhs oorteolile. MIaniageienit mtid qsnge or ihla1gsiR
ilnlcilails will sicltily follow surety cejurr ailx oi the 'ubie Secoirity I)nrlunci met.
C. Oameanaloii Pl'lse
1. Noise iiiand Al           ulinnecessury tuse Uritofiots will be stirictly restricled as aught.            ,                                     Uh'l( slg  WI
Noise barriers or nilotlier Appropriate noulse lprolectlion iiensures ivill be inkeoi al locallons                    CPCir/(1FC
where muolse nceetis si unmldnatl basel oil Ille results or ntoliuoloritg.



;I!\:il!!!!!!!N'!&1iful '!l!  r!!| t!/L).L1Q  !.11!{£!!                                                                         ILesl?°nsill!y    !if !!!^rks
2. Velitlr i   hIiir gciiwii    lllcr iliie 1aIiiilci%iiiicilTgcfuiiniiga eileiii will lhe ciiliiiiiccl to keeli vChilclcs fii goola coidfliions.  (i'( iiic;ii(; (;r'SI)
Vcllirle ,ioaisc alili ciaissiulis iiisilecliol will fie 51lrciigtiluicid. If tl vehiic tioes nol colIlimly Wvilli
ilic noise niuil/ur enilssloiis standnrds, the liceiise vill iol le giveii. Old velilcles wivli low speed, greal
nioTse iltld highi oil coninilliioni will biotlle illow i  rl ii; on ille rilrresswlvy by ithe veicle inspeclion
Yel&iclc slieelo ni Ihe expressavny vlllbcbelivtecl 60-100 hiii/i. Iiit ie sections near villages         GPCD/GII'FC, (II'SI)
or lowns, velicle speed at iniglit will be restiictled to be niol iore Iblin  60 kin/li lo redllte noise
diit llig illglht hIllne.
l'ntblic nivareniess Riuud educnilon will be proltioleul lo fanillinrize people wilh Ilie problems or     CPEPB, OPCI)/GIPFC
Air luolltiliuui ndsl nolse frain veliceles ndl wvilli ireated regiulntions.
3. 'IrAilic Mlainagemisent   Visibility tinitiloritig system  will be luisinlekd for Danqlao-llongyiiui seclionl, where niany henvy
toggy days atIe obseiveul.  )ifferelil velait lee sileed c nl lie set iiicuildling to dile*elri visibility levels.
4. itisit or Ilizii-d4ious  An emergency lenadhtg leniii lins been set up it lli relevant dieparinienis by GIlCP/GPFC to                GPCI)/PPFC('
Mlitterliils .Sloill 1     icll vivi with acciitteal si lsl or linaardois iutitetiiilS, A counin(igeCicy lpliti. to ileoil *villa sielh
uccicdek s will he (Icveloiedl ror XGE.
For trnuusportntlion oa ltazardouis minerIals, tlhree cerliricntes, naniely Iransporl license, driver's   GPPSD, GI'Cii/GI'IC
!splecifil licenise and gliniaruliau's liceutse, by Ile lPulille Securily'Dl)epartmaent oiie reqiiired.
Dallgel0 un1 ulimr-k sounlGld be pill on Ilie velicles haulinig hIililollrd s iialeriius.
I'le PPilice Secnily Bliirea.illwill gdesiianle slecifc rouites anl pJIkiig luts  sfir velilcles carrying   (CPPSI)
lamzmt,11ulls Iutunteillls.
In case ar accideninl spiil orhazardauis materials, relevant clepartnueniis will be Immediately
Iinformed to take prompt actions based on the emergenicy pInu. i-toiitorluig teaill to haludle
Ihe sucih accillenits will also be fornied.
5. Exiresswvay Coiltrol   Cousirticlion of permnanent buildings will not be allowed wilhiln 60 m frouiu side ditches of bolh    GPCDIGPFC
Area                      roadsides as Expressvay Control Area.



1). t iwivironuivinal;l Moitorling'ilI
1. Air Qualitv              (I) Cnnsilstuclioui period:
(a) l^loilwuing iteml: NOx, CO,  IC, I'SP, anl  (IIIst
(b) finiullorliag rrequency; onice every Ivo nioiallis, 3 consecitlive dlays, 4 limes a d(ay (NOx, CO, IC and TSP)
once evere wek (duIst)
(c) Mllilrinag poilits: idveuatirired it ,die FtAP (INO0x. (0. IIC icand rsr)
enuasil-uiclinii siles. pi;areiis. ni;alerial harrow siltes, major lilliilig io;ds
nuiI asphlall inaixilng siles (uluust)
(2) Opnration licrinol:
(ai) Mlonitring ienls: NOx, CO, IIC ndtl TSP
(h)  olhfiloriisg rreqUencv: 4 timiies R venr, S coi:secuilve days, 5 tImes a day
(c) Mouiloring poinls: identified in tlie FAP
(3)  Ioluiloilailig trcliaaica:l criteria:
I'reseuii Almiaosphaere iloniiouiing Stnidardau  I\lellinns itsieid by Nntioiual Euivironiiuieiital
IPl-nertinit Agenicy (NI'Al)
2. Noise                    (I) louidlornig frecjuieuacv:
(a) Conistruictiou, leriod: ouuee n week, 2 limles a (lay. Ad hoc moniioring will be undertakens as approprhale.
(I,) Operadlioi per iod: 4 limes a year, 3 couuseentive days, once eacli In daytime and at iuight. Ad hoc moniloring will l)e undertnken.
(2) ;Monlloring poinis:
(a) Consiticiioua period: snme ns air quality iuonitoirinig
(b) Operation pleriod: Ileliliriedl in ihe FAI'
(3) Moalluring ecihiiical criteria:
I'resenil Noise Sianud:rd lu letiod issued  by NFI'A
3. Water qtualily           (I ) .MOuioriung itemlis: )01) SS, oil. leniper atnrIC. I'll. D)()
(2) .lMnuitrioig fivtclaency:
(a) Consirltcmion leriod: 3 linmes n y ear, 2 consecutive (lays
(h) Oples alinoa periinod: 3 linmes n yenr. 2 coiiserulive dlauys
(3) NIoln ritaaiuig guoilmus:
(n) Coonstruction leeriodi: WVuujinmg  l.iopli Slii Cross Section. Vangix River Daqiao Cross Section, Nlanslaul Resenoir
(hi) Oluerailoni perioti: samue as iabove
6



W.lc-, Oiijililuy Simular.,dl  issued byr NE 11A
4. I.end in Xoil             (1) MIoniforinig ile-iI: ,Lend colileiti III soil nHaul raCrps
aaaad C'r ups
(2) lMlo riqorg frequenicy: Once n yeni dIiuig ile opeliraioni   Z phose
(3) Mlonitoring 1uaimi: (Onc site Cu he fdellkdisal itl 1lf 1 ';I
(4) Iv lonitiaiaig siieilods: sainpahliag na 30 mn, G6  mn, nned fUU in froa blotlih r ondt sides. In eachi site, snilapfiag front
sirrace, 15 cii andli 311 ciai deluuli iide- grouitd.
7



<~~I                                 :: , -                      __ .- r
:~~>StP=r*os*   __f                                                                   ______=
llE 6k    -i   ?                                                                                        :-=__ __ _
| | G~~~~~- o-.l n,,o'  }'                         K'S91- ______|_______
2Kl          \fL   lj                                                                           ___/___
\1  (<  sJr-_                <                          .                                                      =2   s
Figure sensitive spots Of GP Section Expressway OT JZNAH (Xlaotang-Gafltaflg)



t~~~~~
.0=\s                   Shoegu27/                         >. ,1
-Ttr,minJI of LtecbnQeon,ouscnr.sre e  -Z  i)
ttsnno,ntCfLeChnbeofal-C route  t-t idp?uun\; |Cr  
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mlu    -  { ..; stan CODin: of Eit4 con,oansae route    \ 
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0=\t eff 
,7 N:to  na  i -xnC,ryp ;,,3  K,,-$O2
1'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
! , 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soil cnod CeOpsp&:-. OpeTatioro period .
:Figure Environmental Monitoring Map of the EAP Fc
Xiaotang- Gangtaxig Expressway (National 2Iigi0a7s 11 Progect)



