                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 31460

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (SCL-41240 TF-23133)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$400 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR THE

                           SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT




                                       June 23, 2005




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                  Currency Unit = Yuan
                      Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.1207
                      US$ 1.00 = Yuan 8.2782

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1       December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
 AADT       -      Average Annual Daily Traffic
 BMS        -      Bridge Management System
 E&M        -      Electrical and Mechanical
 EAP        -      Environmental Action Plan
 EIA        -      Environmental Impact Assessment
 EIRR       -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
 ENPV       -      Economic Net Present Value
 FIRR       -      Financial Internal Rate of Return
 FYP        -      Five Year Plan
 GPCD       -      Guangdong Provincial Communications Department
 GPFC       -      Guangdong Provincial Freeway Company Limited
 HPCD       -      Hunan Provincial Communications Department
 HPECDC     -      Hunan Provincial Expressway Construction & Development Corporation
 ICB        -      International Competitive Bidding
 Jingzhu    -      Beijing-Zhuhai Expressway
 LLH        -      Loudi-Lianyuan Highway
 MOC        -      Ministry of Communications
 NCB        -      National Competitive Bidding
 NH2        -      Second National Highways Project
 NEPB       -      National Environmental Protection Bureau
 NPV        -      Net Present Value
 NTHS       -      National Trunk Highway System
 PAPs       -      Project-Affected Persons
 PCD        -      Provincial Communication Department
 PMS        -      Pavement Management System
 RAP        -      Resettlement Action Plan
 RMB        -      Chinese Renminbi
 SEPA       -      State Environmental Protection Authority
 SEPB       -      State Environmental Protection Bureau
 SDPC       -      State Development and Planning Commission
 SPC        -      State Planning Commission
 TOR        -      Terms of Reference
 XLE        -      Xiangtan to Leiyang Expressway
 XGE        -      Xiaotang to Gantang Expressway
 XZH        -      Xiangtan to Zhuzhou Highway


                 Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
              Country Director         David R. Dollar
               Sector Manager          Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Christopher R. Bennett

                                            CHINA
                       SECOND NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             46
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                50
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            51
Map        IBRD 27558

Project ID: P003654                                                  Project Name: CN-Nat Hwy2/Hunan-Guangdong
Team Leader: Christopher R. Bennett                                  TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: CN-Nat Hwy2/Hunan-Guangdong                              L/C/TF Number: SCL-41240; TF-23133
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (100%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S); Rural services
                            and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/07/1994                                     Effective: 11/27/1997                11/24/1997
     Appraisal: 04/05/1996                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/17/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          People's Republic of China/Hunan and Guangdong Provincial Communications
                                           Departments
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Nicholas C. Hope (Acting)
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Richard G. Scurfield
Team Leader at ICR:             Christopher R. Bennett                         Alfred Nickesen
ICR Primary Author:             Jacques Yenny


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project had the following objectives: (a) relieve road transport congestion and improve the integration
of interregional trade and commerce between Hunan and Guangdong by assisting in the development of two
key sections of the National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) in the principal North-South transport
corridor; (b) strengthen institutional capacity at the Hunan and Guangdong Provincial Communication
Departments (PCDs) and related institutions; (c) develop a policy dialogue in the areas of the
commercialization and corporatization of provincial expressway companies, highway maintenance
management, and transport and economic integration; and (d) improve the safety of road transport.

The project objectives were clear and in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented
to the Board in June 1995 and the Progress Report of March 26, 1996, supporting China's needs to rapidly
modernize and expand its highway system. The objectives were also consistent with the Government's
request for continuous assistance of the Bank and other multi and bilateral agencies in developing its
NTHS. The project was the second in the series of national highway projects NH1-NH2-NH3-NH4 on the
Beijing-Zhuhai (Jingzhu) expressway in the provinces of Guangdong, Hunan, Hubei, Hunan and Hebei. All
four projects supported an integrated approach to corridor development. Besides investments in priority
expressway links, the project also supported continued institutional development and sectoral reforms
aimed at modernizing the management of the highway system.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The original project comprised the following components:

(a) Construction of: (i) Xiangtan to Leiyang Expressway (XLE), a 169-km divided, four-lane,
    access-controlled toll highway in southern Hunan; and (ii) Xiaotang to Gantang Expressway (XGE), a
    109-km divided, four-lane, access-controlled toll highway in northern Guangdong. The works would
    include construction of administration, service and maintenance facilities as well as the supply and
    installation of electrical, electronic and mechanical (E&M) equipment for tolling, telecommunication,
    traffic monitoring, and lighting of interchanges, toll plazas and service areas;

(b) Interconnecting roads programs: (i) in Hunan, consisting of new construction and upgrading of four
    roads, with a total length of 39 km, including a new 16 km divided, four-lane, Class I,
    Xiangtan-Zhuzhou Highway (XZH); and (ii) in Guangdong, consisting of new construction and
    upgrading of 10 short road sections, with a total length of two km;

(c) Construction of Loudi-Lianyuan Highway (LLH), an auto-only, access-controlled, Class II, connecting
    road of 60 km length;

(d) Construction supervision services for XLE, XGE, the interconnecting roads programs in Hunan and
    Guangdong including XZH, and LLH;




                                                      - 2 -

(e) Studies/technical assistance in: (i) highway maintenance management in Hunan, (ii) expressway
    commercialization and corporatization in Hunan; (iii) transport and economic integration in
    Guangdong; and (iv) expressway safety in Guangdong and Hunan;

(f) Staff training programs in Hunan and Guangdong, covering all aspects of highway planning, design,
    construction, operation, finance, and maintenance; and

(g) Equipment for: (i) control of construction quality and monitoring of the environment; (ii) operation and
    maintenance of XLE and XGE after their completion; and (iii) maintenance of the provincial road
    network, the Road Data Bank (RDB) and the Pavement Management System (PMS) in Hunan.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The assessment is based on:

(a) the consistency of the project objectives with China's priorities for the sector and of the Bank's
    strategy for future highway lending in China;

(b) the importance given to improving the capabilities of highway personnel through training; and

(c) the attention given to Bank policies, in particular regarding environmental protection and resettlement.

Project monitoring indicators were agreed. Although detailed design had been completed by appraisal for
both expressway sections, once work started unexpected geological difficulties appeared, which required
numerous design and contract changes during execution.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overview: The overall achievement of the project objectives in the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) is assessed as satisfactory. Despite some delays in implementation due to technical difficulties in
both provinces related to inadequate designs, and slow procurement of electrical and mechanical (E&M)
works in Hunan, the project objectives were substantially met. The expressway has attracted a significant
portion of the corridor traffic, which has reduced congestion and improved travel times in the corridor. The
improved road infrastructure has stimulated socio-economic development in the corridor throughout the
province and regionally. Both Provincial Communications Departments (PCDs) took advantage of the
training and institutional strengthening programs to improve their operational effectiveness. Improvements
were made in traffic safety but one section of road in Guangdong was problematic and required additional
works to reduce traffic accidents.




                                                      - 3 -

A. Relieve Road Transport Congestion and Improve the Integration of Inter-regional Trade and
    Commerce

The Xiangtan to Leiyang Expressway (XLE) in Hunan was opened to traffic in December 2000 and the
Xiaotang to Gantang Expressway (XGE) in Guangdong opened in April 2003. All interconnecting and
other roads included in the project were completed and opened to traffic.

The objective of reducing congestion on roads parallel to the new road and increasing the parallel road
speeds was met. Of the total 2003 corridor traffic, the expressway took 72% in Hunan and 93% in
Guangdong. The diversion rate to the expressway is similar to that predicted in Hunan, but 60% higher
(93% vs. 55% predicted) in Guangdong. Travel time has been considerably reduced in both provinces.

The project has therefore made a significant contribution to inter-regional trade. It was a key component of
the Beijing-Zhuhai (Jingzhu) Expressway, linking the north and south of China. Crossing the provinces of
Guangdong, Hunan, Hubei, Henan and Hebei over a distance of approximately 2,500 km, the Jingzhu
Expressway had the highest priority of the 12 national trunk routes in the NTHS.

As an example of the trade benefits, in 2003, even before the opening to traffic, the city of Shaoguan in
Guangdong started the development of its "Expressway Economic Zone" and already reported 36 contracts
signed with a total investment of Y1.5 billion (about US$180 million). The economic benefits of the project
are considered sustainable, without any predictable element of risk, as traffic has been growing steadily
since opening.

B. Strengthen the institutional capacity at the Hunan and Guangdong Provincial Communication
    Departments

The impact of technology transfer through training is not easy to measure due to difficulties in defining
baseline parameters. However, the eagerness shown by the leaders of both provinces to engage their staff in
training activities is evidence of the importance they attached to acquiring modern highway management
techniques. More staff received training than the number planned in the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR). Overseas training took place in North America, Australia and eight different countries in Europe.
The topics of training included: operational management, maintenance management, and information
systems, traffic engineering and management, mountainous expressways and tunnel maintenance, and
highway safety. Numerous training courses were also organized locally. Through overseas training and
study tours, and participation in studies and supervision during project implementation, the highway staff
of both provinces received satisfactory exposure to new concepts and practices in highway management
and technology.

C. Develop a policy dialogue in the areas of the commercialization and corporatization of provincial
    expressway companies, highway maintenance management, and transport and economic
    integration

Hunan Province: The expressway commercialization study provided useful guidance to HPCD for moving
the toll road sector of the province towards market based activities. The toll rate study provided further
useful guidance for adjusting toll rates on the expressway to the market and to be consistent with other
provinces. The toll rates retained for Hunan and Guangdong, of about 0.45 Y/vehicle-km for small vehicles
and ranging from 1.30 to 1.35 for heavy vehicles, are close to the average of toll rates charged in a number
of other provinces. The highway maintenance study made recommendations regarding the collection of
information necessary for the organization of maintenance, modern technology for pavement maintenance,
and maintenance planning and financing. In parallel with the study, the HPCD further developed its



                                                     - 4 -

pavement and bridge management systems. By the end of the project, all the main paved roads and all
bridges in the province had been registered in the systems.

Guangdong Province: The study on transport and economic integration provided useful information on
transportation and its potential role in economic development. It also gave valuable suggestions on planning
and decision making for new transport networks, and identified transport nodes where goods and passenger
terminals could be located for modal interchanges.

D. Improve the safety of road transport.

Hunan Province: A number of road safety manuals were prepared and provincial road safety seminars
were held annually since 1997. All were very well received and professionally executed. The seminars
continued under the Fourth National Highway Project (NH4) and Hunan officials have indicated that they
will continue with the seminars after completion of NH4. A pilot study and remedial works at black spots
was conducted on NR 107 to serve as a model for the province. All road safety components under NH2
were completed satisfactorily and were followed by an implementation phase under the NH4 project. The
key performance indicators given in Annex 1 show a substantially reduced number of accidents involving
fatalities per 10,000 registered vehicles from 18 in 1999 to 5 in 2003, and well below the 2005 objective of
10 accidents per 10,000 registered vehicles.

Guangdong Province: The component in Guangdong Province focused on expressway safety given by the
rapidly expanding network of expressways in the province. Several efforts were made towards establishing
an Expressway Road Safety Organization comprising the various parties involved, such as the traffic
police, the Highway Administration Bureau (HAB), the maintenance units, and the maintenance operating
companies. The HAB has also been issuing a monthly road safety report since April 2001, distributed to all
the relevant parties. In 1999, the Ministry of Communication (MOC) issued an order to regulate
over-loaded vehicles. Guangdong province introduced a series of measures to address the problem,
including stopping the overloading vehicles and unloading the goods and levying fines for damage of the
roads. Fixed weighing stations were established in 2001 under a pilot project. The province continued with
its black spot eradication program and introduced a number of road safety initiatives. The safety indicator
for Guangdong at 12 fatalities per 10,000 registered vehicles for 2003 is in line with the benchmark set in
the SAR for 2002, and substantially lower than the 1996 baseline accident record of 20 fatalities per
10,000 vehicles.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Construction of Works included expressways, interconnecting roads and other roads as follows:
(for components A, B and C - US$938.4 million, SAR estimate includes contingencies;
US$980.0 million ICR; actual costs include all civil works)

A. Construction of Expressways

Hunan Province: This was the first Bank financed highway project in Hunan. Expressway construction
included 10 interchanges and about 37 km of connecting roads. The project's original slope design had to
be modified and problems for bridge foundations were encountered with karstic holes. These factors
contributed to increase the contract costs to some 43% above appraisal estimates. The quality of
construction was rated excellent, with smooth pavement and an important effort made for the planting
"which makes this expressway nice in the landscape" (April 2001 supervision mission). The expressway
was opened to traffic on December 26, 2000.




                                                     - 5 -

Guangdong Province: The expressway traversed a mountainous area and 25% of the 110 km were tunnels
(14 km) and bridges (13 km). Several alternative alignments were evaluated at appraisal and the completed
detailed design was reviewed and found satisfactory by foreign consultants in 1996. In spite of what
appeared as a thorough preparation, the contractors soon encountered substantial difficulties. The complex
geological conditions, which had been underestimated in the design stage, affected the tunnels, bridge
foundations and slopes of cuts and embankments. In many locations, the original design was not
appropriate for the given topography and geology. In addition, the construction of a new standard highway
in the same corridor as the expressway had changed the existing terrain conditions and created new
obstacles for bridge pillars in particular. The work contracts started in November 1998, and the larger
contracts that included bridges and tunnels took three years until November 2001. The opening of the
expressway was delayed by about 18 months until April 2003 because of the need to redesign many parts
of the project. Despite the numerous problems and delays encountered during construction, the final result
was deemed very good when a Bank mission visited in July 2003. All the slopes appeared very stable, the
tunnels looked dry with appropriate lighting and ventilation, and the pavement is smooth with good
marking. The expressway looks well integrated in the landscape as a result of the great efforts made for the
greening and planting, and rest areas have been provided for drivers to stop and admire the frequent scenic
views.

B. Construction of Interconnecting and Other roads

Hunan Province: The interconnecting roads program included: (i) the construction of the
Xiangtan-Zhuzhou (XZH) Highway, which was a 16 km divided, four-lane Class I road; and (ii) the
upgrading of 23 km Class II roads linking the expressway to various cities and towns, namely: 5 km linking
Zhuting interchange with PR1815; 4.7 km linking Xintang interchange with PR1820 to Hengshan and
Hengdong; 3 km at Xinshi interchange linking with the Xiangjian bridge and NR107; and 8.4 km linking
Leiyang interchange with NR107. Although the interconnecting roads were completed, the linking of the
expressway with the road network was a weakness in the project. For example: (i) interchanges were not
always located in the most appropriate sites; (ii) the city of Hengyang was served only by a Class II road in
anticipation of a future connection to the Kunming expressway, and in the interim, it is poorly served for
connections to NH2; (iii) some local governments had insufficient funds to upgrade their connecting roads;
(iv) the locally financed road section to Zhuzhou had inconsistent design standards relative to the NH2
financed sections. Bank missions identified a number of safety related issues for the local roads which were
addressed to varying degrees. Lessons learned from NH2 were applied to other Bank funded expressway
projects, for example, projects now include all interconnecting roads with a clear agreement with local
governments as to the required works and delivery schedule.

Guangdong Province: Interconnecting roads consisted of new construction and upgrading of 10 short road
sections, with a total length of 2 km to connect the interchanges with existing Class II roads. These works
were included under the contract for the expressway.

C. Construction of Loudi-Lianyuan Highway

The Loudi-Lianyuan Highway (LLH) links two important industrial cities and is part of a new route from
Changsha to Lianyuan to be extended in the future to western Hunan. Construction of this road also
encountered technical difficulties due to terrain and geology. The frequent rains usually allowed work for
only 120 days per year. The contracts signed for a period of 30 months were overly ambitious and had to
be extended to 48 months. The road was finally opened to traffic at the end of September 2002. Many
houses were built in the vicinity of this road during the extended length of the construction period, in spite
of the fact that the highway and its accesses were designed as an auto only access controlled highway. The
original design specified a speed of 80 km/h, in accordance with MOC standards, but Bank missions


                                                      - 6 -

expressed concern about the incompatibility of high speed vehicles trying to mix with pedestrians, bicycles,
tractors and animal carts and suggested that the road be reclassified. The MOC drew lessons from this
experience and cancelled this type of road in the new standards.

D. Construction of Electrical and Mechanical Works (US$86.2 million SAR; US$29.8 million ICR)

In Hunan, substantial delays were experienced with the procurement of the E&M equipment. These were
not completed until February 2004 and formally handed over in June 2004. Due to this delay the
expressway, and in particular the toll collection, had to operate for three and a half years with a manual
system. The delays also required extending the loan closing-date by one year. Guangdong province took
advantage of its previous experience with E&M procurement and managed to complete the works before
the opening of the project to traffic.

E. Construction Supervision Services (US$23.4 million SAR; US$26.2 million ICR)

Hunan Province: The construction supervision services were provided by foreign and domestic consultants.
For the latter, there were 18 contracts implemented by 17 supervision units. The foreign consultants shared
their international experiences and assisted the domestic consultants with the application of International
Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC) standards. The performance of both domestic and foreign
consultants was found satisfactory.

Guangdong Province: A single domestic consultant acted as Engineer for the project and there was a single
foreign consultant. Their performance was satisfactory.

F. Technical Assistance and Studies (US$1.6 million SAR; US$3.3 million ICR )            1




The five studies in the project (three in Hunan and two in Guangdong) were completed satisfactorily, albeit
delivering them between two and four years behind schedule. This illustrates the continuing difficulty of the
Bank in convincing its Chinese clients of the value of technical assistance when compared to the more
tangible outputs of civil works and equipment. The results of the studies have already been discussed in 4.1
above. The more practical of the studies were those on toll rates, which laid the basis for setting tolls on the
new expressways, and the safety study in Hunan, which produced a number of manuals, such as: the
safety audit manual for design and the safety manual at road work sites. A number of domestic experts
took part in the safety study, thus gaining further experience in the matter.

G. Training (US$4.0 million SAR; US$1.7 million ICR)

Training activities were eagerly pursued in both provinces and the number of man-months (m-m) of
training attended exceeded the targets of the SAR. In Hunan training reached a total of 849 m-m
domestically and 116 m-m abroad and in Guangdong, 672 m-m domestically and 114 m-m abroad.
Training covered road safety, expressway operation and environmental protection in Hunan. In
Guangdong, the topics ranged even more broadly, including in addition to the above topics: highway
financing, human resource development, mountainous expressway construction, project planning and
management, and quality control management. In addition to the formal training program, the staff of both
provinces acquired valuable experience in the construction and supervision of expressways and in the
application of the safeguard policies.
____________________________________________________________________________
Note: 1/The Guangdong Project Office had major difficulties in reconciling their final accounts due to staff
changes. While most problems were resolved with the assistance of a Bank mission in early 2005, the allocation for
`Technical Assistance' was not. This figure should therefore be viewed as unreliable.




                                                       - 7 -

H. Equipment (US$24.1 million SAR; US$9.5 million ICR)

In Hunan, the project included equipment for road maintenance, strengthening of laboratories,
environmental monitoring, and further development of the road data base and pavement management
system. In Guangdong, the province decided not to procure any equipment to maintain the expressway
because they intended to contract the maintenance out. All other equipment described in the SAR was
procured satisfactorily and is fully utilized.

I. Safeguard Policy

Environmental Protection

The finished products on the two expressways and the Loudi-Lianyuan highway show a pleasant
environment. Trees have been planted to provide protection against erosion and excavated material has
been properly shaped. Some environmental problems were noted during construction. In particular,
contractor camps had poor sanitary conditions for the workers, some dumped unsightly material and others
did not use sufficient spray trucks to minimize dust. These deficiencies were pointed out repeatedly by the
Bank's missions, but environmental supervision remained weak as the borrower was concerned primarily
with resolving the technical difficulties of the works and the necessary design and contract modifications.
The implementing agencies followed only partially the agreed mitigation measures, allowing negative
environmental impacts to occur, with the intention of mitigating the impacts later on. Improvements were
made as the pressure to solve other issues diminished. Construction camps were gradually improved and
areas of disposed material were landscaped. Air, water and noise were monitored regularly and found
within the contractual limits, except for some dust from trucks.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement (US$55.1 million SAR; US$64.8 million ICR)

Hunan Province: The resettlement work associated with the project was completed in 1997. After that, the
main activity of the Provincial Resettlement Office (PRO) was to carry out the maintenance of
infrastructure affected by the civil works. The resettlement process was well managed from the set up of
the PRO in November 1994, followed within one month by the setting up of offices in city, county and
townships affected by the project. The offices were fully staffed as required and, after several years of
experience, most of the employees became resettlement experts. The project affected persons (PAPs) were
generally satisfied with the process and the compensation they received. Their new housing is typically of
much higher quality than their previous homes, and with better access to utilities. Many of the new houses
are two or three stories high while the old ones were only one story. The total area of rebuilt houses was
495,531 m2 compared with 278,000 m2 of the demolition. Living standards increased also as households
were able to diversify their production from rice to fish, pig farms and orchard cultivation.

Guangdong Province: Land acquisition and resettlement was largely completed by the end of 1997. Bank
supervision missions found that impressive progress was achieved in improving the livelihood of the PAPs.
Average incomes were restored and all compensations delivered in a timely fashion. All house construction
was completed and all PAPs moved to new houses. According to surveys conducted independently by the
Guangzhou Social Science Institute, 80% of the original houses of the removed families were earth-type
houses of poor quality, without water or electricity, and with poor lighting and ventilation. The replacement
houses were typically of brick and reinforced concrete with more floor space and access to water and
electricity. The expressway construction also provided villagers with work and up to one third of the local
labor force was employed in one or other related activity. Many services including hotels, restaurants and


                                                      - 8 -

repair shops were started by the residents in smaller towns along the expressway, in addition to the already
mentioned Expressway Economic Zone in the city of Shaoguan.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic evaluation covers the two major components of the project: (a) the two expressways (XLE in
Hunan province, and XGE in Guangdong province), including the interchanges and connecting roads, and
(b) the other highways in Hunan province. Both costs and benefits reflect December 2004 prices. The
results of the two expressways are summarized in the following table. The detailed economic analysis is
provided in Annex 3.

                      EIRR (in %) AND ENPV (12%, Y million) of Expressways

                                                          SAR                     ICR
                                                    EIRR     ENPV           EIRR      ENPV
                            Hunan (XLE)              26.3    4,976.0         19.0     2,598.7
                         Guangdong (XGE)             18.1    2,111.0         19.7     2,636.3
                                  Total              22.1    7,087.0         19.3     5,241.5



                   Note: The ICR ENPV is different to the sum of the individual ENPVs due to different start and
                          end dates of the discount periods.

The combined economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the two expressways is estimated at 19 percent;
the economic net present value (ENPV), at a discount rate of 12 percent, is estimated at Y 5,242 million.

Hunan Province: In Hunan, the EIRR and ENPV of the XLE are lower than the SAR estimate, mainly
because of the lower demand for traffic in the corridor. While the SAR estimated approximately 20,000
veh/day in 2003, the actual flow was approximately 14,000. The SAR diversion rate was 74 percent
against an observed rate of 72.5 percent which shows that the relative demand for the expressway was
correctly forecasted.

Guangdong Province: In Guangdong, the ICR EIRR and ENPV of the XGE are higher than anticipated at
appraisal, mainly due to the much higher traffic levels. The SAR anticipated 2003 traffic at about 8,000
veh/day; the actual traffic was over 14,000 veh/day. The diversion rate was 93 percent compared to the
SAR estimate of 55 percent.

The following table shows that the overall performance of the other roads exceeded the SAR estimates.

                       EIRR (in %) AND ENPV (12%, Y million) of Other Roads

                                                          SAR                     ICR
                                                    EIRR     ENPV           EIRR      ENPV
                           Loudi-Lianyuan            20.7    200.0           22.9     239.7
                          Zhuzhou-Xiangtan           47.0    453.0           93.6     619.7
                                  Total              28.4    653.0           38.5     859.4




                                                       - 9 -

As shown in the following table, the EIRR for the entire project (the two expressways and the other roads)
is estimated at 20.2 percent, compared with 22.4 percent estimated in the SAR. The ENPV, at 12 percent
discount rate, is estimated Y 6,094 million compared with Y 7,733 million estimated in the SAR. The lower
returns are mainly due to lower than anticipated traffic in Hunan province.

                          EIRR (in %) AND ENPV (12%, Y million) of Project

                                                             SAR                         ICR
                                                       EIRR      ENPV            EIRR         ENPV
                      Expressways (XGE & XLE)          22.1      7,087.0          19.3       5,241.5
                           Other Highways              28.4       653.0           38.5        859.4
                                Project Total          22.4      7,733.0          20.2       6,094.3



                    Note: The ICR ENPV is different to the sum of the individual ENPVs due to different start and
                          end dates of the discount periods.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The XLE in Hunan was opened to traffic in December 2000, and the Guangdong XGE in April 2003.
Hunan and Guangdong each formed financially independent expressway companies in their provinces,
which are responsible for the day-to-day management, operations and maintenance of the expressways. As
shown in Annex 3, the main income of these companies is from tolls charged to the road users. The toll
rates are set by the provincial government. The toll revenues are used to cover amortization charges of the
Bank and domestic loans. Based on the current toll revenue and operating costs, the companies are able to
generate enough total revenue over the loan period to finance the operation, maintenance, and debt service.
The profits, however, particularly for Hunan, will be low during the early years of operation due to the high
debt-to-equity ratio and the lower than expected traffic demand.

The depreciation reserve represents a significant portion (about 55 - 60 percent) of the annual operating
costs for each expressway, or about 20 - 30 percent of the annual revenue. For example, in 2004 the
depreciation reserves were estimated to be about Y 135 million and Y 100 million for the XLE and XGE
respectively. The higher operating costs, resulting from the higher depreciation, would reduce the tax
liability and the higher depreciation also helps ensure strong internal cash flows during the life of the
project. This insulates the two expressway companies from issues arising from their high debt-to-equity
ratios. They are not likely to need to use their equity for external borrowings during the life of the project.

There was no financial analysis in the SAR. The detailed financial analysis is presented in Annex 3 and
summarized as follows.
                           FIRR (in %) AND FNPV (Y million) of Total Project

                                                                 SAR                        ICR
                                                                                   FIRR         FNPV
                  Hunan (4.77% FCI)                         --        --            -1.4       -2,084.9
                  Guangdong (4.79% FCI)                     --        --            -0.8       -2,305.5
                              Total (4.78% FCI)             --        --            -1.1       -4,389.9



                   Note: FCI is the `Financial Cost of Capital' which was used to calculate the FIRR and FNPV.




                                                       - 10 -

Based on the current financial status, the expressways may not need any additional external financial
assistance. However, the low profit margin produces a negative impact on the financial internal rate of
return (FIRR) for the capital investments. The results of the financial evaluation for the project show that
the FIRR of the project was -1.1 percent with a NPV (4.78 percent) of Y - 4,390 million. Of which, Hunan
has an estimated FIRR of -1.4 percent and Guangdong -0.8 percent.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Overall, the institutional impact of the project was positive. The training program was well attended and
successful, and many highway staff gained experience during the construction of the roads and the
management of the contracts. Frequent Bank visits and interactions with the implementing agencies
contributed to enhancing their knowledge on improving the environment, carrying out the resettlement
activities and improving road safety. In Hunan province, the maintenance study combined with further
development of the road data base (RDB), the pavement management system (PMS) and bridge
management system (BMS) have all contributed to improve maintenance in the province. The PMS has,
unfortunately, not been maintained with up-to-date data and includes only bituminous roads. The BMS has
been maintained and populated with recent data. Road safety manuals and the annual seminars have
contributed to sensitizing the staff on key safety issues. Vehicle weight control was prioritized following the
unfortunate accidents which accompanied the opening of the expressway in Guangdong province.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The rainy seasons, although anticipated, still delayed the works in both Hunan and Guangdong. In
particular, rain precipitation was higher than normal due to El Niño in the fall of 1997. The geological
conditions, with more karstic holes than expected and poor characteristics of material excavated, forced
redesigns in both provinces and resulted in longer construction periods.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Project effectiveness was delayed about eight months from March to November 1997 due to the slow
approval of the Guangdong expressway feasibility study by State Planning Commission (SPC) and design
by MOC. As Guangdong could not start construction before getting approval, the province delayed the
signing of the loan agreement (LA) to avoid commitment fees. Since Hunan had an advance
contracting/retroactive financing facility under the LA, they were able to start work in 1997, one year
earlier than Guangdong.

Although the project covered two provinces, there were few interactions or attempts to exchange knowledge
and experience between the two provinces. In particular, the delay in the procurement of E&M in Hunan
could possibly have been reduced if the previous experience of Guangdong in the matter had been sought.

Due to the regulations in force, GPCD was precluded from addressing truck overloading, the fines were
fixed by the law at a very low level, and could not be collected by the GPCD. The recent changes to the
legislation in China have improved the situation. Now that the PCDs are able to enforce overloading limits
there has been a substantial reduction in the degree and extent of overloading reported in several provinces.




                                                      - 11 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

There were insufficient geotechnical investigations and inadequate design of slopes. A very large number of
major design changes had to be made and variation orders issued to contractors in the mountainous areas
which contributed to large cost increases, above the contract values. During construction, less attention was
given to making contractors respect their obligations regarding the environment because of the concerns
with design changes and contract variation orders. The contractors took advantage of this situation.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, the total project cost, including contingencies and land acquisition, was estimated at
US$1,133 million, of which US$400 million (35%) was to be financed by the Bank loan (detailed cost
tables are provided in Annex 2). The actual costs (including land acquisition and resettlement) in Hunan
province were higher than estimated (SAR, US$505.6 million; ICR, US$512.4 million); while in
Guangdong province costs were less than estimated (SAR, US$627.2 million; ICR, US$615 million).
However, the final provincial contributions to the overall project costs (including land acquisition &
resettlement and design & investigation) was the same as planned in the SAR with Guangdong providing
55% of total costs and Hunan the remaining 45%. The total actual cost of the project US$1,127 million
(including US$12.1 million for design and investigation in Guangdong province) was 99% of the estimate
(US$1,133 million).

Civil works incurred cost overruns due to the adverse geological and topographical conditions of
mountainous alignments. Original bid prices in Guangdong were very low at only 50% of the engineering
estimates, mainly due to the high competition. Bids were won by many contractors from outside the
province. This was not the case in Hunan, where the competition from outsiders was low. In Hunan, the
actual costs of civil works and E&M works (US$454.2 million) were 104% of the costs estimates including
contingencies (US$438.2 million). In the end, in Guangdong the actual costs for civil works including the
E&M works (US$555.6 million) were 95% of the cost estimates including contingencies (US$586.4
million).

In both provinces, the costs of E&M works were substantially lower than the estimates, particularly in
Guangdong, where the actual costs (US$20.7 million) were only 29% of the cost estimates (US$71.4
million) including contingencies. Actual supervision costs (US$26.2 million) were higher than the estimates
(US$23.4 million) and increased according to the extended duration of the civil works contracts.

Because of the original low contract costs, Guangdong province requested the Bank to increase the
disbursement percentage from 34% to 50% in order to be able to use the loan in full. On May 30, 2000, the
Bank agreed to modify the loan agreement to increase the disbursement percentage to 48% and reallocated
more funds for civil works, mostly from the unallocated category. Funds were usually provided on time to
contractors.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project is rated satisfactory. The continuous traffic growth in the corridors served
by the expressways and other roads built under the project, combined with the large time-savings and
reduced congestion, indicates that the economic benefits are sustainable. Despite the problems encountered
during construction, the final quality of construction is good.



                                                      - 12 -

The maintenance equipment acquired by Hunan province should provide adequate long term service.

The lessons learned through project implementation and from staff training programs have already been
disseminated through seminars and workshops in both provinces and will have a long term influence on
provincial road administration and management methods.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

There has been no particular problem in operating the expressways since opening, except for the initial high
accident rate in Guangdong. The expressway in Hunan was operated for three and a half years before
installation of permanent E&M equipment and tolls were collected at temporary facilities. Toll revenue
leakage during this period was reportedly not a problem due to the tight supervision of the operations. All
E&M equipment is now in place in both provinces and operates on a permanent basis.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Project preparation was thorough and methodical. All Bank missions included an expressway design
engineer who worked with the local design institutes for over two years. Simultaneous financing and
completion of the entire corridor were required to fully realize the economic benefits of the two Bank
financed sections and ensure the economic viability of the project. Preparation missions closely coordinated
with the two provinces the financial arrangements of other sections along the corridor. The southern section
was opened to traffic at the same time as the Bank financed section, thus ensuring full benefits of the Bank
project from the beginning. Similarly for Hunan, a Japanese Export-Import Bank (JEXIM) loan had been
secured to finance the southern section linking the two Bank financed sections. The remaining section to
Changsha was financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB).

The Bank organized a review of the expressway design for both provinces using trust funds. In both
Guangdong and Hunan, the reviews found the design satisfactory, even though major problems were later
encountered during construction.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision was intensive and comprehensive with almost all missions including a highway engineer and an
institutional and traffic safety specialist. Missions took place at least twice a year and even three times in
Guangdong in the year 2000, when design and contract modifications were needed. The environmental and
resettlement aspects of the project were also supervised regularly. The continuity of staff was good, with
only one change of task manager in 2001. Another change occurred in 2004, around the time of the closing
date when the project was largely completed. The Bank showed flexibility in approving the design and
contract changes. A Bank financed highway expert assisted in the redesign of certain sections and features
of the expressway in Guangdong.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The supervision team paid adequate attention to
compliance with the Bank policies on resettlement and environment. The advice of the preparation and
supervision teams was appreciated and generally followed.



                                                       - 13 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance during project preparation was unsatisfactory. The preparation went more
smoothly in Guangdong than in Hunan since it was the second Bank highway project in Guangdong, while
for Hunan, this was the first project. There was still a tendency in both provinces to minimize the technical
complexities of the project and set overly optimistic time frames for the contractors. However, in
comparison with the earlier Guangdong project, progress was made in terms of acquiring the land for the
project without delaying the contractor's work.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The performance of the central and provincial governments during project implementation was generally
satisfactory. The Government was fully committed to the project which was contributing to the completion
of the major north-south corridor in China. However, internal clearance of the feasibility study and design
was slower than expected, and loan effectiveness was delayed due to cumbersome internal processes
involving both provincial and central government agencies.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. In both provinces, the implementing
agencies demonstrated commitment to achieve the project's objectives, including not only the construction
of roads, but also the institutional development objectives through studies, workshops, and training of their
staff. Both agencies broadly complied with the Bank's safeguard policies on environment and resettlement.
Guangdong successfully procured the E&M equipment using its previous experience. Hunan, however,
took a long time for E&M procurement, leading to extending the project duration, completing installation
three and a half years after opening the expressway to traffic. Guangdong had difficulties in closing the
loan, due to transferring of project staff. This required a further extension of the loan closing date to
provide sufficient time for new staff to be upskilled and process the necessary documentation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory. The project objectives were achieved and all
loan conditions were complied with. The cooperation between the Borrower and the Bank was good
throughout preparation and implementation of the project.




                                                      - 14 -

8. Lessons Learned

Projects in one or more provinces

The experience of this project is that preparation of a bi-provincial highway project consumes about the
same resources (in terms of staff weeks and budget) as two separate one-province highway projects.
Coordination between Guangdong and Hunan was complicated because Hunan was a first time Bank
highway borrower, while for Guangdong it was the second experience. During project preparation, the two
provinces remained on different levels of understanding of Bank procedures, specifically as regards
economic analysis, resettlement, environment, procurement and disbursement. There was limited exchange
of information between the two provinces during the preparation and execution of the project. As an
example, the procurement of E&M equipment in Hunan took a very long time and the installation was not
completed until the expressway had been operating for three and a half years. In Guangdong, E&M
equipment was already in place at the time of opening because of their previous experience. Better
information exchanges between provinces could have accelerated the Hunan E&M procurement.

Project preparation and design

With hindsight, the project was approved with insufficient attention paid to surveys and design. At the time
of preparation, the bidding documents were based on preliminary engineering design, and not the final one.
In recent years, the MOC has issued a regulation forcing the provinces to systematically include the final
design in the bidding documents.

While there is a limit on how many soil investigations and borings can be done on such long alignments,
sufficient testing needs to be performed to ensure that the designers have a good understanding of the
situations likely to be encountered. The testing should provide sufficient information on the geology and
types of soils to properly estimate the stability of slopes of cuts and fills. These issues were recognized in
the case of Guangdong and the GPFC took immediate actions including: stopping the works, requiring new
designs and nominating sub-contractors for assisting existing contractors in implementation of specialized
technologies. Hunan did not adopt as rigorous an approach to solving the field problems.

Expressway Safety

In the four months following opening of XGE to traffic there were 121 accidents with 33 deaths and many
injured. Two-thirds of the accidents happened on the long (3-4 km) down slope sections, even though the
maximum gradient of 4% was not unusually severe. The major causes of these accidents were:

·        the very poor condition of the commercial vehicles;
·        the gross overloading of trucks (two to three times the registered weight is frequent in China);
·        the over-long driving hours and fatigue of drivers; and,
·        their inexperience with expressways (drivers not used to relying on engine brake,
         changing lanes without warning, parking vehicles on driving lanes, etc.).

The situation drew great attention from the provincial government and the GPCD has addressed the
problem in a variety of ways. Measures implemented included: extra warning signs and speed restrictions,
strips painted on the longer slopes, instruction sheets given to drivers at toll stations, detecting and
combating overloading, building more rest parking areas and adding escape lanes. The accident rate came
down for a while, but 117 accidents with 22 deaths and 33 seriously injured were recorded on XGE again



                                                       - 15 -

during October ­ December 2003. Most accidents are still due to truck overloading (98% of the trucks)
and, until recently, the GPCD was not permitted to stop overloaded trucks as it was the domain of the
police.

While improvements in overweight enforcement will limit the degree of overloading, there are additional
measures that should in the future be implemented at the design stage to improve the safety of new roads.
These include factors such as ensuring a constant gradient over the length of the section, providing
additional lanes, and emergency bays. However, improvements such as these are not embodied in the
MOC's design standards, which designers closely adhere to, even with regard to how they may have
previously been applied. Working with the MOC to update design standards, improving training of
designers, and implementing proper design safety audits would significantly improve the safety situation on
similar projects.


Pressure to complete work in the shortest time

China was in a hurry to build its NTHS to meet the very high road traffic growth. This led to the project
specifying very tight schedules in its contracts, often necessitating extensions. It also affected quality, as
evidenced in some instances by problems with embankment settlement a short time after project completion.
It is important to adopt sensible schedules for construction, especially when the terrain is complex. This has
been recognized by the MOC and, recently, PCDs have been penalized for early completion of projects in
an attempt to improve the quality.

Interconnecting Roads

It is important to pay close attention to the interconnecting road program during project design. The
expressway alignment, number and location of interchanges need to be carefully considered to ensure that
the full potential benefits of the expressway are realized. It is necessary to carefully review the class and
designs of the interconnecting roads to ensure that they are sufficient to meet the likely traffic demand from
the expressway. Design institutes can be weak in designing at grade junctions and this can present major
traffic safety problems when the roads have a high speed alignment.




                                                      - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

            A. Contribution from the Hunan Provincial Communication Department

General

The NH2 Project Hunan components was appraised by the Bank in May 1996. The project loan
negotiations were held in Washington D.C. in November 1996. The Loan Agreement and Project
Agreement were signed on August 29, 1997, providing US$200 million for the Hunan components under
the NH2 Project. The loan was declared effective on November 24, 1997. The original loan closing date
was June 30, 2003 and was later extended to June 30, 2004. It was retroactively extended to December 31,
2004 to allow for Guangdong to complete processing disbursements. In general, all tasks described in the
Staff Appraisal Report, Loan Agreement and Project Agreement have been successfully implemented.

Project Components

1.       Construction of Xiangtan-Leiyang Expressway (XLE). The alignment is located in the middle part
of Hunan Province, with a total length of 168.85 km. It has four lanes, with a subgrade of 28 m (inclusive
of all necessary 35.56 km long interconnecting roads which connect with the expressway and the existing
highway network in this corridor); service and management facilities along the expressway; supply and
installation of expressway tolling, telecommunication, traffic surveillance, tunnel ventilation and lighting
facilities; provision of construction supervision services for control of construction quality and
environmental monitoring during the expressway construction; provision of equipment for the expressway
operation and maintenance.

2.       A 59.98 km long Class II auto-only highway from Loudi to Lianyuan.

3.       Institutional strengthening components:

         ·        Road maintenance study to check and make suggestions for road maintenance policy
                  and approaches consistent with the economic reform process;

         ·        Expressway management study, which aimed to promote the process of corporatization
                  and commercialization of Hunan provincial expressways; and,

         ·        Road safety activities, which aimed to hold an annual traffic safety workshop,
                  develop road safety audit procedures, and measures for traffic accident data
                  collection and analysis.

Project Financing

The final project cost totaled US$512.4 million. The Bank loan of US$192.6 million covered 37.6% of the
total project cost. The government provided US$168.3 million (32.9%), of the total cost, while co-financing
covered the remaining cost of US$151.5 million (29.6%).




                                                     - 17 -

Project Executing Organization

Hunan Provincial Expressway Construction & Development Corporation (HPECDC) was the employer for
the construction of XLE and its interconnecting roads. It was also responsible for the equipment
procurement. Hunan Provincial Communications Department (HPCD) was the executing agency for the
staff training program and the other three studies.

Project Objectives Achieved

The objectives of the project were:

·        To support sustained development of road infrastructure in Hunan;

·        Road maintenance study to evaluate and make suggestions for road maintenance policy and
         approaches, which were consistent with the economic reform process;

·        Expressway management study to promote the corporatization and commercialization process of
         Hunan provincial expressways; and,

·        Road safety activities, which aimed to hold annual traffic safety workshops, develop road safety
         audit procedures and measures for traffic accident data collection and analysis.

These were achieved through successful implementation of each project component.

Project Formulation and Preparation

The project pre-feasibility report and project proposal were approved by SDPC on November 8, 1994. The
project feasibility report was approved by SDPC on November 4, 1995. The project preliminary design
was approved by MOC on April 2, 1996.

The Bank carried out the project identification in July 1994. The project preparation was undertaken in
November 1995 and the Bank completed the project appraisal in May 1996.

The loan was negotiated in Washington, D.C. in November 1996. Both the loan and project agreements
were signed on August 29, 1997 and the agreements took effect on November 24,1997.

Project Implementation

Construction of Xiangtan-Leiyang Expressway (XLE)

·        Civil Works. The four-lane, 168.85 km XLE mainline included 11 civil works contracts
         and nine contracts of interconnecting roads. The civil works commenced on October 1, 1997,
         all the contracts were completed by December 21, 2000, and opened to traffic for trial
         operation on December 26, 2000.

·        Annex Area Works. The annex area works under the project cover eight tolling stations,
         three service areas, three parking areas, and three administrative centers. These works included
         three packages, which commenced in March 2000 and were completed by December 2003.



                                                     - 18 -

·        E&M Works. The ICB contract of the project E&M works commenced in April 2002 and
         was completed in March 2003. The pre-commissioning test was completed in March 2004.

Environmental Protection and Monitoring

An overall baseline environmental survey and monitoring were carried out along XLE in March 1996. The
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Environmental Action Plan (EAP) were prepared by the
Employer and found satisfactory to the Bank. The EAP specified major mitigation measures during the
construction and operation phases, including optimum planning of earthworks, use of excavated soil for
filling works, spraying water to minimize dust, construction of noise barriers at sensitive locations, etc. The
EAP was fully followed during the project implementation and operation stages. The State Environmental
Protection Bureau (SEPB) carried out an environmental inspection of the XLE and issued an acceptance
certificate in December 2001.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement

All of the project affected land acquisition, house relocation, power line and telecommunication facility
removal as well as resettlement of the project affected persons (PAPs) was carried out in accordance with
the Project Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Under the project, 26,026 mu of land were acquired and
451,903 m2 of buildings. Four enterprises and two primary schools were relocated. A total of US$36.0
million for land compensation was paid. The resettlement work for the PAPs was completed in 2000. All
the affected buildings were relocated to new locations. Those affected enterprises were also rebuilt and
resumed their production activities.

Institutional Strengthening

·        Road Maintenance Study. The study was helpful for the improvement of road services
         standards in Hunan Province. It was completed in accordance with TOR.

·        Study on Expressway Corporatization and Commercialization. The study aimed to make
         suggestions for institutional strengthening of Hunan expressways, and helped to establish
         a market-oriented corporation entity to manage the expressway.

·        Expressway Safety Study. There were three aspects to this component: (i) Annual workshops
         were held to discuss road safety issues, with the objective to learn more on road safety
         and to share the experiences of road safety from other countries. (ii) A road safety audit manual,
         was developed which put forward safety audit requirements for each stage of road design
         in terms of technical contents of road design. (iii) An analytical model of road black spots
         was established, covering the following 3 steps: find and identify the location, develop the
         implementation plan, implement it with before and after studies. NH4 continued the study.

·        Training A total of 58 persons participated in the overseas training (116 person/months),
         including construction supervision training, 741 persons (849 person/months) participated
         in the domestic training. All overseas training and study tours as well as domestic training were
         completed in accordance with the TORs.

·        Equipment Procurement All the equipment procurements were completed according to
         the approved procurement plan.




                                                     - 19 -

Project Operation and Maintenance

Since the opening of the XLE on December 26, 2000, its traffic volume and toll revenue have been
increasing steadily. XLE Management Division under HPECDC is in charge of the operation and
maintenance of the expressway. One management center, eight toll station stations, three service areas,
three parking lots, three maintenance centers and two administrative teams were established under the
project. The administrative teams carry out continuous daily patrols on the expressway to enhance traffic
administration and assist the traffic police in dealing with accidents and safety issues.

The routine maintenance, including small maintenance and cleaning work, is carried out by the maintenance
teams while the periodic maintenance works, especially for bridges and tunnels, are undertaken by eligible
specialized highway maintenance companies selected by open and competitive bidding. Tolling,
telecommunication and traffic surveillance systems have functioned well.

Construction Assessment

Performance by the Contractors and Consultants

·        Work Done by the Contractor. The project was divided into 27 contracts which were
         implemented by 24 qualified contractors. During the construction, all the contractors established
         appropriate construction organizations, strengthened contract management systems, set clear
         progress targets, developed detailed construction plans and overcame many difficulties. Under the
         organization and coordination of the Employer and the Engineer, the contractors completed the
         project successfully. The project was evaluated domestically and received an excellent grade.

·        Work Done by the Domestic Consultants. The construction supervision for this project
         consisted of 18 contracts, which were implemented by 17 qualified supervision units. They
         were responsible for the supervision of the construction of the subgrade, bridges and the tunnel,
         as well as the paving of the pavement, the set up of the safety facilities, the installation of E&M
         works and the greening works. They established specialized supervision teams, formulated
         specific supervision management programs and strictly followed relevant regulations of FIDIC
         Terms and Conditions. They cooperated with the employer in contract management
         and implemented good control of the project quality, progress and the cost.

·        Work Done by the Foreign Consultants. A foreign consulting firm was engaged to
         provide professional foreign consultants for the construction supervision service. During
         project construction, they had close cooperation with the domestic consultants and shared
         their international working experiences.

Performance by the Implementation Agency

·        Project Management Organization. As the owner of the project, HPECDC set up
         the Xiangtan-Leiyang Expressway Construction Company to be in charge of the implementation
         of the project. The XLE Company, as the representative of the owner, followed the
         state infrastructure construction guidelines, the Bank procurement procedures and FIDIC
         Terms and Conditions from the project preparation stage through implementation stage for the
         management of the project. Through close operation with the Engineer, the employer
         implemented effective control of the project quality, progress, construction safety and cost.



                                                      - 20 -

·     Project Study Achievements. A series of studies were carried out on the technical difficulties
      concerning the project, including: (i) Subgrade Construction Technique Study in Red Soil Region;
      (ii) Application Study of Small Particle Blast and Light Surface Blast Technique in Red Soil
      Region; and, (iii) Expressway Cut Slope Stability Experiment Study in Red Soil Region. These
      led to the issuing of "Temporary Regulation for Subgrade Construction in Red Soil " and
      " Regulation for Red Soil Subgrade Construction and Monitoring". The application of these study
      results contributed to resolving the difficulties during construction, and improve the project quality
      and control the cost.

·     Environmental Protection and Monitoring. An EAP for XLE was completed in March 1996 and
      was approved by the National Environmental Protection Bureau (NEPB). Specific measures
      required to mitigate the potential adverse impacts on the environment during construction and
      operation stage of the expressway were confirmed in the EAP. Both the Employer and the resident
      engineer's offices were staffed with environmental supervisors. In accordance with the regulations
      in EAP, the Hunan Provincial Environmental Monitoring Central Station was entrusted to
      undertake the environmental monitoring assignments during project construction stage and in the
      first year of the test operation. Necessary measures were taken to guarantee that the environmental
      monitoring index met the requirements. NEPB conducted an environmental check on XLE in
      December 2001 and issued an acceptance certificate.

·     Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The land acquisition for XLE and resettlement of the
      PAPs were carried out according to the Resettlement Action Plan which specified the land and
      crop compensation and resettlement subsidy standards, specific resettlement organization as well
      as internal and independent monitoring arrangements. By implementing the RAP, the living
      conditions of the PAPs were significantly improved. Completion of the project has improved the
      transport conditions and investment environment along the expressway corridor and stimulated
      the local economic growth.

Performance by the Bank

·     Project Identification. The Bank carried out project identification in July 1994. The Bank
      identification mission learned the following information: (i) the Bank was suggested to
      finance the NH2 project Hunan section; and, (ii) XLE was arranged to be
      implemented and completed concurrent with the sub-project Loudi-Lianyuan
      Class II auto-only highway.

·     Project Preparation. The scope of the project was determined after the Bank financed project
      preparation mission. In the follow-up mission, the Bank representative reviewed the RAP, EAP,
      design and bidding documents, procurement plan and the training program. The report also formed
      an essential part of the project and a basis for loan negotiation, project implementation and post
      evaluation.

·     Project Implementation. Since the loan for the NH2 project became effective on
      November 24,1997, the Bank sent at least two missions a year to supervise the project and
      monitor the progress of each project component. The Bank carried out efficient management
      on the project through close collaboration with the employer.




                                                   - 21 -

Experiences and Lessons

With the joint efforts of all the parties concerned, remarkable achievements were obtained in the aspects of
construction and the institutional strengthening of the project. The advanced experiences from modern
foreign expressway highway construction management have been applied, which will contribute to the
sustained development of Hunan highway network.

The Expressway Commercialization Study provided useful guidance for the HPCD to move the toll road
sector of the province towards market-oriented activities. The Toll Rate Study, which was more practical,
has provided useful guidance for adjusting toll rates on the expressway to the market and to the situation in
other provinces.

The Highway Maintenance Study has provided information and made recommendations for maintenance
management reform, modern technology of pavement maintenance as well as maintenance planning and
optimized allocation of maintenance funds. In parallel with the study, HPCD further developed its
Pavement Management System (PMS) and Bridge Management System (BMS).

The Provincial road safety seminars, formulation of Design Safety Audit Manuals and Safety Manual for
Road Works,a pilot study and remedial of black spots conducted on NR 107, serve as a model for the
province. All of these have laid the basis for improved safety for road transport in Hunan Province.

The application of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and FIDIC Terms and Conditions need to be
adapted to the concrete situations of the project. Further improvements should be made for enhancing
prequalification, implementing bid evaluation methods which better suits the present China market,
rationalizing bid packages, and strengthening supervision. The lowest bidder should be evaluated more
reasonably to ensure that the bidder has enough capacity to implement if winning the contract. Too much
emphasis on the lowest bidding price does not suit the Chinese construction market which has state-owned
entities as the major part.

Hunan and Guangdong Provinces shared the same World Bank-financed highway project. In both the
project preparation and implementation stages, the World Bank did not attempt to implement information
exchange and technical support. Accordingly, it is not especially beneficial to implement multi-province
projects.

         B. Contribution from the Guangdong Provincial Communications Department

General

The NH2 Project-Guangdong component was appraised by the Bank in May 1996. The project loan
negotiation was held in Washington D.C. in November 1996. The Loan Agreement and Project Agreement
were signed on August 29, 1997, providing US$200 million for Guangdong component under the NH2
Project. The loan was declared effective on November 24, 1997. The original loan closing date was June
30, 2003 and was later extended to June 30, 2004, and subsequently to December, 31 2004. In general, all
tasks described in the SAR, Loan Agreement and Project Agreement were successfully implemented.




                                                      - 22 -

Project Objectives

·       to support sustained development of road infrastructure in Guangdong;

·       to improve economic integration between Guangdong and Hunan;

·       to strengthen highway sector institutional capacity in Guangdong; and,

·       to improve safety of road transport in Guangdong.

Project components

·       construction of a four lane, 109.9 km Xiaotang-Gantang Expressway (XGE),
        inclusive of construction and upgrading of interconnecting roads;

·       supply and installation of expressway tolling, telecommunication, traffic surveillance,
        tunnel ventilation and lighting facilities;

·       provision of construction supervision services for control of construction quality
        and environmental monitoring during the expressway construction;

·       provision of equipment for the expressway operation and maintenance;

·       carrying out a study on transport and economic integration;

·       development and implementation of a program of expressway safety; and,

·       provision of training in the areas of expressway construction, operation, maintenance and finance.

Project financing

The final project cost totals US$615 million. The Bank loan of US$185.3 million covers 30.1% of the
total project cost. The central government (MOC) and Guangdong covered the remaining cost of
US$429.7 million (69.9%).

Project executing organizations

Guangdong Provincial Freeway Co. Ltd. (GPFC) was the Employer for the construction of XGE and its
interconnecting roads. It was also responsible for the equipment procurement and the expressway safety
study under the project. Guangdong Provincial Communications Department (GPCD) was the executing
agency for the staff training program and the transport and economic integration study under the project.

Project objectives achieved

The project objectives were realized through successful implementation of each project component.




                                                    - 23 -

Project formulation and preparation

The project pre-feasibility report and project proposal were approved by SDPC on September 11, 1996.
The project feasibility report was approved by SDPC on August 26, 1997. The project preliminary design
was approved by MOC on March 10, 1998.

The Bank carried out the project identification in July 1994. The project preparation was undertaken in
November 1995 and the Bank completed the project appraisal in May 1996.

The loan was negotiated in Washington, D.C. in November 1996. Both the loan and project agreements
were signed on August 29, 1997 and the agreements took effect on November 24, 1997.

Project implementation

Construction of Xiaotang-Gantang Expressway

·       Civil works. The XGE mainline included 13 ICB contracts, in which 10 contracts
        were for subgrade, bridge and tunnel works and three contracts for pavement works.
        In addition, a contract package for traffic safety facilities, communication conduits and
        greening was separated from the original ICB pavement works. The civil works commenced
        in November 1998 and all the contracts were completed in succession by the end
        of March 2003.

·       Annex area works. The annex area works under the project covered seven toll stations, two
        service areas, one parking area, one administrative center, one tunnel administrative center,
        one tunnel administrative station, two maintenance centers and two administrative depots.
        Packaging of these works included six NCB subcontracts commenced in January 2002 and
        was completed by March 2003.

·       E&M works. The contract package for the E&M works under the project included two ICB
        contracts, one for the expressway tolling, telecommunications and traffic surveillance system
        facilities and one for tunnel ventilation and lighting. The procurement was undertaken through
        single stage bidding. These contracts commenced in April 2002 and were completed in
        March 2003. The pre-commissioning test was completed in March 2004.

Environmental protection and monitoring

An overall baseline environmental survey and monitoring were carried out along XGE in November 1998.
The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Environmental Action Plan (EAP) were prepared by the
Employer and found satisfactory to the Bank. The EAP specified major mitigation measures during the
construction and operation phases, including optimum planning of earthworks, use of excavated soil for
filling works, spraying water to minimize dust, construction of noise barriers at sensitive locations etc. The
EAP was fully followed during the project implementation and operation. The State Environmental
Protection Authority (SEPA) has carried out an environmental inspection of the XGE and issued an
acceptance certificate in December 2003.




                                                     - 24 -

Land acquisition and resettlement

All of the project affected land acquisition, house relocation, power line and telecommunication facility
removal as well as resettlement of the project affected persons (PAPs) were carried out in accordance with
the project Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Under the project, 11,948 mu of land were acquired and
43,628 m2 of buildings, nine enterprises and one primary school were relocated. A total of US$28.8
million for land compensation and RMB 39.28 million for resettlement subsidy were paid. The
resettlement work for the PAPs was completed in 1998. All the affected buildings were relocated to new
locations. Those affected enterprises were also rebuilt and resumed their production activities.

Institutional strengthening

·       Transport and economic integration study. The objective of this study was to
        examine the long-term transport and economic integration effects of the transport corridor
        along Hunan and Guangdong provinces. The study analyzed the advantages of the
        completion of XGE in terms of promoting faster regional economic growth in northern
        Guangdong. The study was carried out according to the TOR.

·       Expressway safety study. The objective of this study was to examine causes of expressway
        accidents by analyzing expressway safety impacts from design, traffic facilities and driver
        aspects. The study was carried out according to the TOR.

·       Training. A total of 108 persons (114 man-months) were sent for overseas training, including
        construction supervision training, and 752 persons (672 man-months) participated in domestic
        training. All the overseas training and study tours as well as domestic training were completed
        in accordance with the TORs.

·       Toll rate study report. As per the Project Agreement, GPCD sent a recommendation
        for the structure of the toll rates for XGE to the Bank in December 2000 and submitted its
        justification and analysis report in March 2002 for the Bank's review. Upon taking into
        account of the Bank's comments, the study report was finalized.

·       Equipment procurement. Due to institutional reform, major maintenance work for XGE is
        undertaken by selecting specialized highway maintenance companies through competitive bidding.
        Therefore, the amount of equipment procured was reduced and the total procurement cost was
        cut from US$7.7 million to US$2.4 million with the approval of the Bank. GPFC assigned
        CITC to handle the procurement which was completed through ICB.

Project operation and maintenance

Since the XGE was opened to traffic on April 3, 2003, both the traffic flow and toll revenue have
been increasing steadily at a higher rate than forecasted. A newly established XGE subsidiary
company under GPFC is in charge of the operation and maintenance of XGE. It consists of one
administrative center, seven toll stations, two service areas, two maintenance centers and two
administrative teams. The administrative teams carry out daily patrol on the expressway around
the clock to enhance traffic administration and assist the traffic police in handling accidents and safety
issues.




                                                     - 25 -

The routine maintenance, including normal repair and cleaning work, is carried out by the maintenance
teams while periodic maintenance works, especially for bridges and tunnels, are undertaken by eligible
specialized highway maintenance companies selected through open and competitive bidding. The
pre-commissioning acceptance for the E&M works indicated that all the completed tolling,
telecommunication and traffic surveillance systems are functioning correctly.

Assessment of work

Performance by the contractors and consultants

·       Work by the contractors. The project was divided into 34 contracts which were
        implemented by 30 qualified contractors. During the construction, each contractor
        could set up as appropriate construction organization, strengthen its contract management
         system, establish clear progress targets, work out detailed construction plans
        and overcome numerous difficulties. Under the organization and coordination of the
        Employer and Engineer, the contractors completed the project successfully. The project
        works have been evaluated and reached excellent grade.

·       Work by the domestic consultants. A domestic institute was Engineer for the project,
        responsible for supervising construction and placement of subgrade, bridges, tunnels,
        pavement, safety facilities, plantation, building and E&M works. The Engineer set up a
        team of professional consultants, worked out specific supervision management methods
        and strictly followed FIDIC terms during the supervision. It cooperated with the Employer
        in contract management and had good control of the project quality, progress and cost.

·       Work by the foreign consultants. A foreign firm provided professional foreign consultants
        for the construction supervision. They had close cooperation and shared their rich international
        working experience with the domestic consultants during the project implementation. By
        analyzing features of expressway construction in China and abroad, they forwarded
        constructive advice to the Employer and contractors, which were accepted and applied to
        the project.

Performance by the implementation agency

·       Project management organization. As early as the project formulation, GPFC, as the
        Employer, established XGE Construction Management Division to be in charge of project
        implementation. The division, as the Employer's representative, followed the state infrastructure
        construction guidelines, the Bank procurement procedures, and FIDIC terms during the project
        preparation and implementation. In close cooperation with the Engineer, the Employer exercised
        effective control of the project quality, progress, construction safety and cost.

·       Project study results. In connection with the project technical difficulties, a series of studies
        were carried out, including (i) high-cut side slope stability analysis and support measures;
        (ii) highway tunnel surrounding rock stability analysis and support parameters; (iii) rock-fill
        embankment construction; (iv) traffic surveillance and traffic management; and (v) highway
        tunnel surveillance system rationalization. Application of these study results helped resolve the
        construction difficulties, ensure the project quality and control the cost.




                                                     - 26 -

·     Environmental protection and monitoring. An EAP was prepared for XGE in early
      January 1996, which specified measures required to mitigate the potential adverse impacts
      on the environment during construction and operation of the expressway. Both the Employer
      and resident engineer's offices were staffed with environmental supervisors. The central
      laboratory conducted an overall baseline environmental monitoring along the project alignment
      in November 1998 and carried out routine environmental monitoring during the construction
      as specified in the EAP. Appropriate mitigating solutions were taken when monitoring results
      fell beyond the standards. The SEPA carried out an environmental inspection of the XGE
      and issued an acceptance certificate in December 2003.

·     Land acquisition and resettlement. The land acquisition for XGE and resettlement of the
      PAPs were undertaken according to the Resettlement Action Plan which determined the land
      and crop compensation and resettlement subsidy standards, specified resettlement organization as
      well as internal and independent monitoring arrangements. Implementation of the RAP indicated
      that living conditions of the PAPs were obviously improved. Completion of the project has
      improved the transport condition and investment climate along the expressway corridor and
      boosted the local economic growth.

Performance by the Bank

·     Project identification. The Bank carried out the project identification in July 1994. The main
      findings of the Bank identification mission were as follows: (i) proposal for the Bank to finance
      Guangdong section under NH2 project and (ii) arrangements for
      Xiaotang-Gantang Expressway (northern section) and Guangzhou-Gantang Expressway
      (southern section) to be implemented and completed concurrently.

·     Project preparation. The project scope was formulated and refined after the Bank project
      preparation and follow-up missions investigated and examined vast amount of documents and
      information, including XGE engineering analysis, contract packaging, construction supervision,
      institutional strengthening and training, equipment procurement, environment, land acquisition
      and resettlement, project cost and financing plan as well as project implementation plan.

·     Project appraisal. The Bank appraisal missions discussed with GPCD and GPFC in
      detail the implementation schedule for both the northern and southern sections with a view
      to completing both sections at the same time. The Bank also reviewed the RAP, EAP, design
      and bidding documents, procurement plan and training program. In accordance with findings
      of the project appraisal, the Staff Appraisal Report was prepared which formed an essential
      element of the project documentation and basis for the loan negotiation, project implementation
      and post evaluation.

·     Project implementation. After the loan effectiveness of NH2 project took place on
      November 24, 1997, the Bank dispatched at least two missions a year to supervise the
      project and monitor the progress of each project component. The Bank supervision missions
      carried out effective project management throughout its implementation in close collaboration
      with the Employer.




                                                  - 27 -

Experience and lessons

With joint efforts by all participants involved, the project completion has achieved remarkable results
which could be seen not only from physical completion of XGE but also from strengthening of the
institutional capacity. The emergence of numerous well trained management and technical staff and
application of updated experience in international modern highway construction management will greatly
contribute to the sustained development of highway network in Guangdong.

Application of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and FIDIC terms need to be in line with the concrete
situations of the project. Further improvements may be made for enhancing prequalification, implementing
suitable bid evaluation methods, rationalizing bid packages, strengthening performance supervision, etc. In
particular, the lowest bid should be evaluated more reasonably to ensure that the bidder, if winning the
contract, has enough capacity to implement it.

A good design is essential to project success. Due to geological complexity in the mountainous region
along the XGE, the engineering design encountered many unexpected factors which made the design
inconsistent with the actual situation to some extent. During the construction, strict review was made to
ensure the design drawings were in line with reality. Design variations and optimization were proposed
accordingly so that the smooth implementation the project could be guaranteed.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                             Indicators/Matrix                                  2002 Benchmark         Actual/latest
                                                                                                         Estimate
  Development of road infrastructure:                                                                As of 12/31/2003
   1. Reduced traffic congestion on roads parallel to the proposed road:
      a. Hunan Component:
         Majiahe-Xintang section                                                 3,800 vehicle /day   4,195 vehicle /day
         Xintang- Hongshi section                                                4,200 vehicle /day   2,126 vehicle /day
         Hongshi- Leiyang section                                                3,300 vehicle /day   5,277 vehicle /day
      b. Guangdong Component:
         Xiaotang- Daqiao section                                                3,000 vehicle /day   1,063 vehicle /day
         Daqiao- Ruyuan section                                                  2,000 vehicle /day   1,011 vehicle /day
         Ruyuan- Gantang section                                                 1,000 vehicle /day   1,013 vehicle /day

   2. Increased average travel speed on roads parallel to the proposed road:
      a. Hunan Component:
         Majiahe-Xintang section                                                        60                   60
         Xintang- Hongshi section                                                       55                   60
         Hongshi- Leiyang section                                                       60                   60
      b. Guangdong Component:
         Xiaotang- Daqiao section                                                       60                   60
         Daqiao- Ruyuan section                                                         50                   40
         Ruyuan- Gantang section                                                        50                   60

   3. Increase highway safety :
     Reduced number of traffic accidents involving fatalities
     (Number of annual fatalities accidents / number of registered vehicles):
      Hunan Component                                                               12/ 10,000           5 / 10,000
      Guangdong Component                                                           10/ 10,000           12 / 10,000

 Notes: a/ The data are from 2003. A more current data was not available.

                          Indicators/Matrix                                  Projected in last PSR  Actual/latest Estimate

% Percentage of civil works completed:
  a. XLE                                                                             100                      100
  b. XGE                                                                             100                      100

 Number of person- months of completed training
  a. XLE
     Domestic                                                                        518                      849
     Overseas                                                                        110                      116
  b. XGE
     Domestic                                                                        672                      672
     Overseas                                                                        122                      114

  Percentage of equipment purchased
  a. XLE                                                                             100                      100
  b. XGE                                                                             100                      100

  Expected Completion Date of Studies
  Hunan Component:
  Highway Maintenance Study                                                       06/30/2000              05/30/2004
  Expressway Commercialization and Corporatization Study                          06/30/2000              06/30/2002
  Road Safety Study                                                               06/30/2000              06/30/2002

  Guangdong Component:
  Transport and Economic Integration Study                                        06/30/2000              12/16/2002




                                                             - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 2a: Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                     Hunan                                      Guangdong
                                    Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage       Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage
                                    Estimates       Estimates          of        Estimates       Estimates        of
                                   US$ million     US$ million Appraisal        US$ million US$ million       Appraisal


Civil Works
Expressway                                 276.1            395.8       143.4            405.1          534.9       132.0
E&M                                          11.7              9.1       77.8             56.1           20.7        36.9
Interchange Roads                            22.4            -- /_a         --               --             --          --
Other Roads                                  35.3             49.3      139.7                --             --          --
      Subtotal Civil Works                 345.5            454.2       131.5            461.2          555.6       120.5


Supervision                                  10.1             13.4      132.7              8.3           12.8       154.2


   Subtotal Civil Works & SPN              355.6            467.6       131.5            469.5          568.4       121.1

Equipment                                    11.3              7.1       62.8              7.7             2.4       31.2


Training                                      1.2              0.9       69.2              2.0             0.8       40.0
TA/Studies                                    0.8              0.8      114.3              0.5             2.5 /_b  500.0
  Subtotal Training/TA/Studies                2.0              1.7       85.0              2.5             3.3      132.0


Total Baseline Cost                        368.8            476.4       129.1            479.7          574.1       119.7


Contingencies:
    Physical                                 36.7                --         --            45.6              --          --
    Price                                    62.3                --         --            84.6              --          --
     Subtotal Contingencies                  99.0                --         --           130.2              --          --


       Total Project Costs                 467.8            476.4       101.8            609.9          574.1        94.1
Design and Investigation                                                                 -- /_c          12.1       -- /_d
Land Acquisition
and Resettlement                             37.8             36.0       95.2             17.3           28.8       166.5


   Total Financing Required                505.6            512.4       101.3            627.2          615.0        98.1

/_a: The cost of interchange roads is included in the cost of the expressway.
/_b: The Guangdong Project Office had major difficulties in reconciling their final accounts due to staff changes.
     While most problems were resolved with the assistance of a Bank mission in early 2005, the allocation for
     `Technical Assistance' was not. This figure should therefore be viewed as unreliable.
/_c: The category "Design and Investigation" was not included in the original project appraisal document.
/_d: The original allocation was not registered; therefore, the percentage of appraisal was not calculated.




                                                               - 30 -

Table 2b: Appraisal Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal/Estimate) (US$ m equivalent)

Expenditure                          Hunan: Procurement Method                    Guangdong: Procurement Method
Category                      ICB       NCB    Other /a NBF /b       Total    ICB      NCB       Other /a    NBF /b  Total
1. Works                       381.2      57.0        0.0      0.0     438.2    561.7       24.6         0.0     0.0   586.3
                             (164.7)     (23.0)       0.0      0.0    (187.7) (180.8)      (6.2)         0.0     0.0  (187.0)
2. Goods                         10.3      0.0        4.0      0.0      14.3      5.8       0.0          4.0     0.0     9.8
                                (6.3)      0.0      (1.7)      0.0      (8.0)   (5.3)       0.0        (3.8)     0.0    (9.1)
3. Services
   Construction                   0.0      0.0      12.8       0.0      12.8      0.0       0.0         10.7     0.0    10.7
   Supervision                    0.0      0.0      (2.6)      0.0      (2.6)     0.0       0.0        (2.5)     0.0    (2.5)
   Consultants and                0.0      0.0        2.5      0.0       2.5      0.0       0.0          3.1     0.0     3.1
   Training                       0.0      0.0      (1.7)      0.0      (1.7)     0.0       0.0        (1.4)     0.0    (1.4)
         Subtotal                 0.0      0.0      15.3       0.0      15.3      0.0       0.0         13.8     0.0    13.8
                                  0.0      0.0      (4.3)      0.0      (4.3)     0.0       0.0        (3.9)     0.0    (3.9)
4. Land Acquisition and
   Resettlement                   0.0      0.0        0.0     37.8      37.8      0.0       0.0          0.0     17.3   17.3
                                  0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0     0.0     0.0
          Total                391.5      57.0      19.3      37.8     505.6    567.5       24.6        17.8     17.3  627.2
                             (171.0)     (23.0)     (6.0)      0.0    (200.0) (186.1)      (6.2)       (7.7)     0.0  (200.0)




Table 2c: Actual Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate ) (US$ m equivalent)


Expenditure                          Hunan: Procurement Method                    Guangdong: Procurement Method
Category                      ICB       NCB     Other /a NBF /b       Total   ICB       NCB       Other /a   NBF /b   Total
1. Works                        387.8     66.4        0.0       0.0    454.2    425.4       17.3         0.0    112.9  555.6
                              (182.9)      0.0        0.0       0.0   (182.9) (175.9)      (8.3)         0.0      0.0 (184.2)
2. Goods                          6.0      0.0        1.1       0.0      7.1      1.3        0.0         0.0      1.1    2.4
                                (5.7)      0.0      (1.1)       0.0     (6.8)     0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0    0.0
3. Services
   Construction                   0.0     11.7        1.7       0.0     13.4      0.0        0.0         1.7     11.1   12.8
   Supervision                    0.0      0.0      (1.7)       0.0     (1.7)     0.0        0.0        (1.0)     0.0   (1.0)
   Consultants and                0.0      0.0        1.7       0.0      1.7      0.0        0.0         0.8      2.5    3.3
   Training                       0.0      0.0      (1.2)       0.0     (1.2)     0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0    0.0
     Subtotal Services            0.0     11.7        3.4       0.0     15.1      0.0        0.0         2.5     13.6   16.1
                                  0.0      0.0      (2.9)       0.0     (2.9)     0.0        0.0        (1.0)     0.0   (1.0)
   Design and                                                                      --         --           --    12.1   12.1
   Investigation                                                                   --         --           --     0.0    0.0
4. Land Acquisition and
   Resettlement                   0.0      0.0        0.0      36.0     36.0      0.0        0.0         0.0     28.8   28.8
                                  0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0    0.0
         Total                  393.8     78.1        4.5      36.0    512.4    426.7       17.3         2.5    168.5  615.0
                              (188.6)      0.0      (4.0)       0.0   (192.6) (175.9)      (8.3)        (1.0)     0.0 (185.2)

/_a: Other include force account, international shopping, limited international bidding, consultants and training.
/_b: NBF means not Bank-financed.
Note: 1. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.




                                                             - 31 -

Table 2d: Hunan Province - Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                            Appraisal Estimate                Actual/ Latest Estimate
              Component                         Bank         Gov't     CoF.     Total   Bank    Gov't        CoF.     Total

A.    Expressway Civil Works                       146.4       203.8              350.2  158.1    117.5        120.2   395.8
B.    Interconnecting Roads                         11.8        16.6               28.4      0          0           0       0
C.    Other Roads                                   18.9        25.9               44.8   18.5      14.8         16.0    49.3
          ABC Subtotal Civil Works                 177.1       246.3              423.4  176.6    132.3        136.2   445.1
D.    Expressway M&E                                10.6          4.2              14.8    6.3          0         2.8     9.1
E.    Construction Supervision                       2.6        10.2               12.8    1.7          0        11.7    13.4
F.    TA/Studies                                     0.5          0.5               1.0    0.4          0         0.4     0.8
G.    Training                                       1.2          0.3               1.5    0.8          0         0.1     0.9
H.    Equipment                                      8.0          6.3              14.3    6.8          0         0.3     7.1
            TOTAL PROJECT /_a                      200.0       267.8              467.8  192.6    132.3        151.5   476.4
I.    Land Acquisition & Resettlement                   0       37.8               37.8      0      36.0            0    36.0

             TOTAL FINANCING                       200.0       305.6              505.6  192.6    168.3        151.5   512.4

Table 2e: Guangdong Province - Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                            Appraisal Estimate                Actual/ Latest Estimate
              Component                         Bank         Gov't     CoF.     Total   Bank    Gov't        CoF.     Total

ABC. Expressway Civil Works                        140.8       374.2                515  181.3    353.6                534.9
D.    Expressway M&E                                46.2        25.2               71.4    3.0      17.7                 20.7
E.    Construction Supervision                       2.5          8.1              10.6    1.0      11.8                 12.8
F.    TA/Studies                                     0.2          0.4               0.6      0        2.5                 2.5
G.    Training                                       1.2          1.3               2.5      0        0.8                 0.8
H.    Equipment                                      9.1          0.7               9.8      0        2.4                 2.4
            TOTAL PROJECT /_a                      200.0       409.9              609.9  185.3    388.8                574.1
      Design and Investigation /_b                      0           0                 0      0      12.1                 12.1
I.    Land Acquisition & Resettlement                   0       17.3               17.3      0      28.8                 28.8

             TOTAL FINANCING                       200.0       427.2              627.2  185.3    429.7                615.0

Table 2f: Consolidated Hunan and Guangdong Provinces - Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                            Appraisal Estimate                Actual/ Latest Estimate
              Component                         Bank         Gov't     CoF.     Total   Bank    Gov't        CoF.     Total

ABC. Civil Works                                   317.9       620.5              938.4  357.9    485.9        136.2   980.0
D.    Expressway M&E                                56.8        29.4               86.2    9.3      17.7          2.8    29.8
E.    Construction Supervision                       5.1        18.3               23.4    2.7      11.8         11.7    26.2
F.    TA/Studies                                     0.7          0.9               1.6    0.4        2.5         0.4     3.3
G.    Training                                       2.4          1.6               4.0    0.8        0.8         0.1     1.7
H.    Equipment                                     17.1          7.0              24.1    6.8        2.4         0.3     9.5
                SUBTOTAL /_a                       400.0       677.7            1,077.7  377.9    521.1        151.5  1,050.5
      Design and Investigation /_b                      0           0                 0      0      12.1            0    12.1
I.    Land Acquisition & Resettlement                   0       55.1               55.1      0      64.8            0    64.8

             TOTAL FINANCING                       400.0       732.8            1,132.8  377.9    598.0        151.5  1,127.4

/_a:  Total project costs including price and physical contingencies.
/_b:  The category "Design and Investigation" was not included in the SAR.




                                                                  - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


                     Table 3a: Economic and Financial Evaluation Summary
                                                           SAR                                 ICR
                                           EIRR     ENPV                  FNPV     EIRR  ENPV
                                            (%)     (12%,      FIRR       (4.8%,    (%)  (12%,   FIRR     FNPV
                                                     mY)        (%)        mY)           mY)     (%)
 1. Hunan:
    a. XLE                                 26.3     4,976        --         --     19.0 2,598.7   --        --
    b. Other highways                       /_a      /_b         --         --     38.5   859.4   --        --
              Hunan total                    --       --         --         --     20.6 3,458.0  (1.4)   (2,084.9)
 2. Guangdong: XGE                         18.11    2,111        --         --     19.7 2,636.3   0.8    (2,305.5)

 Total expressways (XLE & XGE)               --       --         --         --     19.3 5,241.5   --        --

             Total project                 22.4     7,733        --         --     20.2 6,094.3  (1.1)   (4,389.9)

 /_a: In the SAR, the EIRR for the other highways range from 20.7% to 47.0%.
 /_b: In the SAR, the ENPV for the other highways range from 200 mY to 453 mY.



Traffic

The XLE (Hunan) opened in December 2000 and both the total corridor traffic and the traffic on the new
highway for 2001 was only about 60 percent of the SAR's estimate. After three years of operation, in
2003, the total corridor traffic and the traffic on the new highway improved to about 70 percent of the
SAR's estimate. The expressway diversion ratios (the portion of the road users using the expressway)
during 2001-2003 is also improved slightly. This reveals that the road users are gradually accepting the
toll expressway concept. Considering the lower traffic demand, the long-term traffic growth for the XLE
are estimated to be 2.5- 3.5 percent from 2003- 2020. In the SAR, the growth rate forecast is 6.8 percent.

The XGE (Guangdong) opened to traffic in April 2003 and both the total corridor traffic and the traffic on
the new highway for 2003, despite only eight full months of operation, were about 3 percent and 74
percent, respectively, higher than the SAR's estimates. The expressway diversion ratio for 2003 was
estimated to be 93 percent which is much higher than the SAR's forecast of 55 percent. This reveals that
the road users of the XGE have totally accepted the toll expressway. Since the project road is located in
either mountains or hilly terrain, the economic development in the project area may be lower than in the
other parts of Guangdong province, the long-term traffic forecast is conservatively estimated to be about
4.2- 5.6 percent from 2003- 2020. In the SAR, the growth rate forecast is 6.8 percent.

The expressway corridor traffic and distribution between the old and the new highway are presented in the
following table, including the SAR forecast and actual traffic census data.




                                                           - 33 -

             Table 3b: Number of Motorized Vehicle Per Day (2001-2020)
                                     SAR                            ICR1/
                      Old       New           Diversion  Old  New           Diversion
                      Road     Road    Total    ratio   Road  Road    Total   ratio
                       (1)       (2) (3=1+2)   (4=2/3)   (1)   (2)   (3=1+2) (4=2/3)

1. Hunan (XLE):
        2001         4,423     12,589 17,012   74.0%    2,888 7,402  10,290  71.9%
        2002         4,777     13,597 18,374   74.0%    3,288 8,285  11,573  71.6%
        2003         5,159     14,684 19,843   74.0%    3,866 10,217 14,083  72.5%
        2004         5,572     15,859 21,431   74.0%    4,017 10,737 14,754  72.8%
        2005         6,018     17,128 23,146   74.0%    4,174 11,284 15,458  73.0%
        2010         8,842     25,165 34,007   74.0%    4,867 13,762 18,628  73.9%
        2015        11,832     33,677 45,509   74.0%    5,353 15,857 21,210  74.8%
        2020        15,835     45,067 60,902   74.0%    5,888 18,272 24,160  75.6%
   Average growth pa
     2003-2020        6.8%     6.8%    6.8%             2.5%  3.5%    3.2%     --
2. Guangdong (XGE):
        2001         5,724     6,996  12,720   55.0%    2,667   --    2,667    --
        2002         6,182     7,556  13,738   55.0%    3,445   --    3,445    --
        2003         6,676     8,160  14,836   55.0%    1,029 14,196 15,225  93.2%
        2004         7,210     8,813  16,023   55.0%    1,091 15,266 16,357  93.3%
        2005         7,788     9,518  17,306   55.0%    1,156 16,417 17,573  93.4%
        2010        11,443     13,986 25,429   55.0%    1,460 21,957 23,417  93.8%
        2015        15,313     18,716 34,029   55.0%    1,744 28,003 29,747  94.1%
        2020        20,492     25,046 45,538   55.0%    2,084 35,714 37,798  94.5%
Average growth pa
     2003-2020        6.8%     6.8%    6.8%             4.2%  5.6%    5.5%     --

Sources: HPCD, GPCD and the Bank staff.
Note: 1/ 2004 onwards are estimates




                                             - 34 -

                    Table 3c: Hunan: Second National Highway Project
                   EIRR: Xiangtan - Leiyang Expressway (million Yuan)

                        Costs                    Benefits (Savings)           Net cash
               Capital  O & M   Total    VOC    Congestion Accident   Total    flow

    1997          516.62        516.62                                         (516.6)
    1998          922.22        922.22                                         (922.2)
    1999          802.12        802.12                                         (802.1)
    2000          710.42        710.42                                         (710.4)
    2001          602.53  26.60 629.13    392.26      5.22       4.02   401.5  (227.6)
    2002          451.86  26.60 478.46    524.28      6.84       4.67   535.8      57.3
    2003                  26.60  26.60    686.71     11.49       5.64   703.8     677.2
    2004                  26.60  26.60    760.70     11.84       5.85   778.4     751.8
    2005                  26.60  26.60    842.84     12.21       6.06   861.1     834.5
    2006                  26.60  26.60    934.08     12.59       6.28   953.0     926.4
    2007                  26.60  26.60  1,035.43     12.99       6.50 1,054.9  1,028.3
    2008                  26.60  26.60  1,148.06     13.41       6.73 1,168.2  1,141.6
    2009                  26.60  26.60  1,273.25     13.85       6.97 1,294.1  1,267.5
    2010/_a             138.36  138.36  1,412.42     14.31       7.27 1,434.0  1,295.6
    2011/_a             138.36  138.36  1,516.65     13.92       7.42 1,538.0  1,399.6
    2012                  26.60  26.60  1,628.76     13.53       7.57 1,649.9  1,623.3
    2013                  26.60  26.60  1,749.37     13.15       7.73 1,770.3  1,743.7
    2014                  26.60  26.60  1,879.13     12.78       7.89 1,899.8  1,873.2
    2015                  26.60  26.60  2,018.75     12.43       8.06 2,039.2  2,012.6
    2016                  26.60  26.60  2,168.99     12.09       8.23 2,189.3  2,162.7
    2017                  26.60  26.60  2,330.68     11.76       8.40 2,350.8  2,324.2
    2018                  26.60  26.60  2,504.72     11.43       8.57 2,524.7  2,498.1
    2019                  26.60  26.60  2,692.06     11.12       8.75 2,711.9  2,685.3
    2020                  26.60  26.60  2,893.73     10.82       8.89 2,913.4  2,886.8

  Total         4,005.77                                             30,772.2 26,010.9
                                                           EIRR                 19.0%
                                                           NPV (12%)           2,598.7

/_a: Major maintenance




                                          - 35 -

                 Table 3d: Guangdong: Second National Highway Project
                   EIRR: Xiaotang- Gantang Expressway (million Yuan)
                        Costs                     Benefits (Savings)            Net cash
               Capital  O & M   Total    VOC     Congestion Accident   Total     flow

    1997          118.65         118.65                                          (118.65)
    1998          138.27         138.27                                          (138.27)
    1999          512.86         512.86                                          (512.86)
    2000          897.74         897.74                                          (897.74)
    2001        1036.92         1036.92                                         (1036.92)
    2002        1013.58         1013.58                                         (1013.58)
    2003          590.40  21.06  611.46   647.47      10.34       1.16   657.81     46.35
    2004          222.34  21.06  243.40   728.97      10.61       1.22   739.58    496.18
    2005                  21.06  21.06    820.76      10.89       1.29   831.65    810.59
    2006                  21.06  21.06    924.15      11.17       1.35   935.32    914.26
    2007                  21.06  21.06  1,040.62      11.47       1.42 1,052.09  1,031.03
    2008                  21.06  21.06  1,171.82      11.77       1.50 1,183.59  1,162.53
    2009                  21.06  21.06  1,319.61      12.09       1.57 1,331.70  1,310.64
    2010                  21.06  21.06  1,486.08      12.42       1.65 1,498.50  1,477.44
    2011                  21.06  21.06  1,621.15      12.36       1.73 1,633.51  1,612.45
    2012/_a             107.07   107.07 1,768.52      12.30       1.81 1,780.82  1,673.76
    2013/_a             107.07   107.07 1,929.31      12.24       1.90 1,941.55  1,834.49
    2014                  21.06  21.06  2,104.75      12.18       1.99 2,116.93  2,095.87
    2015                  21.06  21.06  2,296.15      12.12       2.10 2,308.27  2,287.21
    2016                  21.06  21.06  2,505.00      12.06       2.21 2,517.06  2,496.00
    2017                  21.06  21.06  2,732.87      12.00       2.33 2,744.87  2,723.81
    2018                  21.06  21.06  2,981.50      11.94       2.47 2,993.44  2,972.38
    2019                  21.06  21.06  3,252.78      11.88       2.62 3,264.66  3,243.60
    2020                  21.06  21.06  3,548.78      11.80       2.80 3,560.58  3,539.52

  Total         4,530.76                                              33,091.9   28,779.9
                                                            EIRR                   19.7%
                                                            NPV (12%)             2,636.3

/_a: Major maintenance




                                            - 36 -

                        Table 3e: Second National Highway Project
                         EIRR: Total Expressway (million Yuan)

                        Costs                     Benefits (Savings)            Net cash
               Capital  O & M   Total    VOC     Congestion Accident    Total    flow

    1997           635.3    0.0   635.3                                          (635.3)
    1998         1,060.5    0.0 1,060.5                  0.0        0.0     0.0 (1,060.5)
    1999         1,315.0    0.0 1,315.0                  0.0        0.0     0.0 (1,315.0)
    2000         1,608.2    0.0 1,608.2                  0.0        0.0     0.0 (1,608.2)
    2001         1,639.5   26.6 1,666.1     392.3        5.2        4.0   401.5 (1,264.6)
    2002         1,465.4   26.6 1,492.0     524.3        6.8        4.7   535.8  (956.3)
    2003           590.4   47.7   638.1   1,334.2      21.8         6.8 1,362.8     724.8
    2004           222.3   47.7   270.0   1,489.7      22.5         7.1 1,519.2  1,249.2
    2005             0.0   47.7    47.7   1,663.6      23.1         7.3 1,694.1  1,646.4
    2006             0.0   47.7    47.7   1,858.2      23.8         7.6 1,889.6  1,842.0
    2007             0.0   47.7    47.7   2,076.1      24.5         7.9 2,108.4  2,060.8
    2008             0.0   47.7    47.7   2,319.9      25.2         8.2 2,353.3  2,305.6
    2009                   47.7    47.7   2,592.9      25.9         8.5 2,627.3  2,579.7
    2010/_a               159.4   159.4   2,898.5      26.7         8.9 2,934.2  2,774.7
    2011/_a               159.4   159.4   3,137.8      26.3         9.2 3,173.2  3,013.8
    2012/_a               133.7   133.7   3,397.3      25.8         9.4 3,432.5  3,298.8
    2013/_a               133.7   133.7   3,678.7      25.4         9.6 3,713.7  3,580.0
    2014                   47.7    47.7   3,983.9      25.0         9.9 4,018.7  3,971.1
    2015                   47.7    47.7   4,314.9      24.6       10.2  4,349.6  4,302.0
    2016                   47.7    47.7   4,674.0      24.2       10.4  4,708.6  4,660.9
    2017                   47.7    47.7   5,063.6      23.8       10.7  5,098.0  5,050.4
    2018                   47.7    47.7   5,486.2      23.4       11.0  5,520.6  5,473.0
    2019                   47.7    47.7   5,944.8      23.0       11.4  5,979.2  5,931.6
    2020                   47.7    47.7   6,442.5      22.6       11.7  6,476.8  6,429.2

  Total          8,536.5                                               63,897.2 54,054.1

                                                            EIRR                   19.3%
                                                            NPV (12%)            5,241.5


/_a: Major maintenance




                                           - 37 -

                            Table 3f: Hunan: Income Statement - Consolidated
                                       (million Yuan, year ending 31, December)

                                    2001      2002  2003    2004    2005 2006     2007    2008    2009   2010     2011

Traffic (million veh-km)             311.84 348.36 431.52 450.46 470.25 491.01 512.72 535.40 559.14       584.10 601.09

Revenue
 Tolls                               293.81 353.18 415.50 436.95 456.14 476.28 497.34 599.65 626.24       654.19 673.22
 Others                                 0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
 Total                               293.81 353.18 415.50 436.95 456.14 476.28 497.34 599.65 626.24       654.19 673.22

Operating Taxes
 Business tax                         14.69    17.66 20.78   21.85 22.81 23.81     24.87   29.98   31.31   32.71 33.66
 City tax                               1.03    1.24  1.45    1.53   1.60   1.67    1.74    2.10    2.19    2.29   2.36
 Education levy                         0.44    0.52  0.62    1.09   1.14   1.19    1.24    1.50    1.57    1.64   1.68
 Total                                16.16    19.42 22.85   24.47 25.55 26.67     27.85   33.58   35.07   36.64 37.70

Net Revenue                          277.65 333.76 392.65 412.48 430.59 449.61 469.49 566.07 591.17       617.55 635.52
Operating Costs
 Wages and benefits                   14.16    14.90 15.68   20.54 21.44 22.39     23.37   28.18   29.43   30.75 31.64
 Maintenance                          11.05    11.60 12.18   12.79 13.43 14.10     87.34   15.55   16.33   17.15 18.01
 Fuel & materials                       1.58    1.66  1.75    2.18   2.28   2.38    2.49    3.00    3.13    3.27   3.37
 Administration                       37.84    18.43 51.71   50.25 52.46 54.77     57.19   68.96   72.02   75.23 77.42
 Total working costs                  64.63    46.59 81.32   85.76 89.61 93.64 170.39 115.69 120.91       126.40 130.44
  Depreciation                        80.37 110.49 128.04 134.65 135.99 136.06 136.13 136.21 136.28       136.37 136.45
 Total operating costs               145.00 157.08 209.36 220.41 225.60 229.70 306.52 251.90 257.19       262.77 266.89
Operating Profit                     132.65 176.68 183.29 192.07 204.99 219.91 162.97 314.17 333.98       354.78 368.63
Financial charges:
   IBRD                                 0.00    0.00 61.43   58.09 54.59 50.95     47.15   43.19   39.07   34.75 30.26
   Local Bank                         41.69    57.31 66.41   69.84 69.84 64.66     59.47   54.29   49.10   43.92 38.74
   Others                                   -      -     -       -      -      -       -       -       -       -      -
 Other income (expenses)           (207.49)(159.45) (53.40) (21.85)(22.81)(23.81) (24.87) (29.98) (31.31) (32.71)(33.66)


Profit Before Taxes/1              (116.53) (40.08)   2.05   42.29 57.75 80.49     31.48 186.71 214.50    243.40 265.97
 Income tax                                 -      -     -       -      - 26.56    10.39   61.61   70.79   80.32 87.77


Net Profit After Taxes             (116.53) (40.08)   2.05   42.29 57.75 53.93     21.09 125.10 143.72    163.08 178.20


Actual: 2003, forecast: 2004 thereafter.
/_1: Income rate = 33.3% after the tax credit.
/_2: Opened to traffic on December 2000.




                                                           - 38 -

                Table 3g: Hunan: Sources and Applications of Funds - Consolidated
                                  (million Yuan, year ending 31, December)

                   1997 1998 1999      2000    2001    2002      2003 2004 2005          2006 2007       2008    2009 2010



Sources:
Net profits             -      -      -      - (116.53)  (40.08)   2.05   42.29   57.75   53.93   21.09   125.1 143.72 163.08
Depreciation            -      -      -      -   80.37   110.49 128.04 134.65 135.99 136.06 136.13 136.21 136.28 136.37
State contribution  21.32  24.84 92.14 161.29   186.30   182.10 106.07    39.95        -      -        -       -      -        -
Provincial
  contribution      12.89  15.02 55.72   97.54  112.66   110.13   64.15   24.16        -      -        -       -      -        -
 Borrowing: IBRD    41.86  48.78 180.94 316.73  365.84   357.60 208.30    78.45        -      -        -       -      -        -
            Local   35.28  41.11 152.50 266.95  308.33   301.39 175.55    66.10        -      -        -       -      -        -
Others                  -      -      -      -        -        -      -       -        -      -        -       -      -        -


       Total       111.35 129.75 481.30 842.51  936.97 1,021.63 684.16 385.60 193.74 189.99 157.22 261.31 280.00 299.45


Applications:
Capital
  expenditure      111.35 129.75 481.30 842.51  973.13   951.22 554.07 208.66     13.43   14.10   14.81   15.55   16.33   17.15
Other expenditure       -      -      -      -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Loan repayment:
       IBRD             -      -      -      -        -        -  78.16   81.50   85.00   88.64   92.44   96.40 100.52 104.84
       Local            -      -      -      -        -        -      -       - 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00
Others                  -      -      -      -        -        -      -       -        -      -        -       -      -        -
Change w/ capital       -      -      -      -  (36.16)  (32.53) (34.15) (11.76) (10.51) (11.04) (11.54) (56.07) (14.57) (15.31)


       Total       111.35 129.75 481.30 842.51  936.97   918.69 598.08 278.40 187.92 191.70 195.71 155.88 202.28 206.68


Net Funds Flow          -      -      -      -        -  102.94    86.1 107.20     5.82 (1.71) (38.49) 105.43     77.72   92.77

 Open balance                                                  - 102.94 189.02 296.22 302.04 300.33 261.84 367.27 444.98
 Closing balance                                         102.94 189.02 296.22 302.04 300.33 261.84 367.27 444.98 537.75


D/S Cover                         --     --     --       --      1.66    2.17    1.05    1.01    0.82    1.33    1.40    1.46




                                                       - 39 -

                           Table 3h: Hunan: Balance Sheet - Consolidated
                                  (million Yuan, year ending 31, December)

                            2001     2002     2003     2004     2005     2006     2007     2008     2009    2010     2011

Assets:
Fixed Assets
 At cost                    2,411.14 3,314.80 3,841.16 4,039.39 4,039.39 4,039.39 4,039.39 4,039.394,039.39 4,039.39 4,039.39
 Less: Depreciation            80.37   110.49  128.04    262.69  398.68   534.74   670.87    807.08 943.36 1,079.73 1,216.18
       Net fixed assets     2,330.77 3,204.31 3,713.12 3,776.70 3,640.71 3,504.65 3,368.52 3,232.313,096.03 2,959.66 2,823.21


Current Assets
 Inventory                         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -
 Receivable                    15.28    18.37   21.61     22.72   23.72    24.77    25.86     31.18   32.56   34.02    35.01
 Cash                              -   102.94  189.02    296.22  302.04   300.33   261.84    367.27 444.98   537.75   635.49
           Subtotal            15.28   121.31  210.63    318.94  325.76   325.10   287.70    398.45 477.54   571.77   670.50

Other Assets                  155.72   187.19  220.22    231.58  241.75   252.43   263.59    317.81 331.91   346.72   356.81


        Total Assets        2,501.77 3,512.81 4,143.97 4,327.22 4,208.22 4,082.18 3,919.81 3,948.573,905.48 3,878.15 3,850.52


Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity           479.02   777.64 1,047.02 1,147.91 1,196.65 1,241.12 1,252.24 1,385.311,518.82 1,671.17 1,835.74

L/T loans: IBRD               954.15 1,311.75 1,441.89 1,438.84 1,353.84 1,265.20 1,172.76 1,076.36 975.84   871.00   761.67
             Local            804.17 1,105.56 1,281.11 1,347.21 1,247.21 1,147.21 1,047.21   947.21 847.21   747.21   647.21
           Subtotal         1,758.32 2,417.31 2,723.00 2,786.05 2,601.05 2,412.41 2,219.97 2,023.571,823.05 1,618.21 1,408.88

Current Liabilities           176.29   211.91  249.30    262.17  273.68   285.77   298.40    359.79 375.74   392.51   403.93

Other Liabilities              88.14   105.95  124.65    131.09  136.84   142.88   149.20    179.90 187.87   196.26   201.97

Total Liabilities & Equity  2,501.77 3,512.81 4,143.97 4,327.22 4,208.22 4,082.18 3,919.81 3,948.573,905.48 3,878.15 3,850.52


Debt- to- equity ratio     77/23    75/25    72/28     70/30    68/32    66/34    64/36    60/40   56/44    52/48    47/53
Current ratio                0.1      0.6      0.8       1.2      1.2      1.1      1.0      1.1     1.3      1.5      1.7




                                                       - 40 -

                          Table 3i: Hunan: Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1. Toll and Traffic (AADT):
                          Small     Medium      Large       Small      Medium       Large     Tractor
                           car       bus         bus         truck      truck       truck     -Trailer Total

   Toll (Y/v-km) /_a      0.400      0.700      1.000       0.400       0.700       1.000      1.300

  1. Majiahe- Xintang
            2001           922       140         916        2,324        351        2,352        8     7,013
            2002          1,035      157        1,029       2,609        394        2,640        9     7,873
            2003          1,321      182        1,193       3,025        457        3,060        10    9,248
            2010          1,859      224        1,467       3,720        562        3,763        12    11,607
            2020          2,622      260        1,703       4,317        652        4,367        14    13,935
   2. Xintang- Hongshi
            2001          1,076      163        1,069       2,712        410        2,754        10    8,194
            2002          1,201      182        1,194       3,028        458        3,064        11    9,138
            2003          1,607      221        1,453       3,684        557        3,728        13    11,263
            2010          2,416      291        1,912       4,848        733        4,906        17    15,123
            2020          3,752      373        2,448       6,206        938        6,280        22    20,019
  3. Hongshi- Leiyang
            2001           920       139         914        2,319        351        2,347        8     6,998
            2002          1,031      156        1,025       2,599        393        2,631        9     7,844
            2003          1,446      199        1,308       3,317        502        3,358        11    10,141
            2010          2,322      280        1,840       4,667        706        4,725        15    14,555
            2020          3,606      395        2,596       6,583        996        6,665        21    20,862

   /_a: 15 % increase every 5 years.

2. Operating Taxes:
      Business tax                   5.0% of the total revenue.
      City tax                       5.0% of the business taxes.
      Education levy                 3.0% of the business taxes.

3. Operating Cost:                        Increase 5 % pa.
      a. Wages and benefits          4.7%of total revenue.
      b. Maintenance                 3.0%of total revenue.
      c. Fuel & materials            0.5%of total revenue.
      d. Administration             11.5%of total revenue.
      e. Depreciation                  30years straight-line method.
      f. Other expenses              5.0%of total revenue.

4. Capital maintenance (MY/km):
      Increase 5% p.a.
                                      Routine              Medium                      Major
                                    maint./ year        maint./ 5 years           maint./ 10 years
                                      0.0623                0.350                      0.650

5. Income tax rate                  33.3%, after 2005.

6. Borrowing:        The IBRD       4.24%, 20 year maturities, LIBOR US$ based single currency,
                                          5 years grace period and the foreign exchange risks.
                     Local Bank     5.18%, flexible principal payment.




                                                              - 41 -

                          Table 3j: Guangdong: Income Statement- Consolidated
                                       (million Yuan, year ending 31, December)

                                    2003    2004   2005   2006   2007 2008     2009   2010   2011  2012    2013

Traffic (million veh-km)             568.92 605.40 644.23 685.55 729.61 776.51 826.59 880.01 923.58969.43 1,017.57

Revenue
 Tolls                               279.00 424.00 451.20 480.13 510.99 628.97 669.54 712.81 748.10785.24  946.34
 Others                                    -     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -        -
 Total                               279.00 424.00 451.20 480.13 510.99 628.97 669.54 712.81 748.10785.24  946.34

Operating Taxes
 Business tax                         14.00  21.00 22.56   24.01 25.55 31.45    33.48  35.64 37.41 39.26    47.32
 City tax                               1.00  1.00  1.13    1.20  1.28   1.57    1.67   1.78  1.87   1.96     2.37
 Education levy                         0.50  0.60  0.68    0.72  0.77   0.94    1.00   1.07  1.12   1.18     1.42
 Total                                15.50  22.60 24.37   25.93 27.60 33.96    36.15  38.49 40.40 42.40    51.11

Net Revenue                          263.50 401.40 426.83 454.20 483.39 595.01 633.39 674.32 707.70742.84  895.23
Operating Costs
 Wages and benefits                   12.00  22.00 23.46   24.97 26.57 32.71    34.82  37.07 38.90 40.83    49.21
 Maintenance                          11.00  28.00 29.78   31.69 112.10 41.51   44.19  47.05 49.37256.94    62.46
 Administration                         9.00 29.00 31.58   33.61 35.77 44.03    46.87  49.90 52.37 54.97    66.24
 Others                               34.00   2.00  2.26    2.40  2.55   3.14    3.35   3.56  3.74   3.93     4.73
 Total working costs                  66.00  81.00 87.08   92.67 176.99 121.39 129.23 137.58 144.38356.67  182.64
  Depreciation                        54.00 100.00 171.08 171.19 171.29 171.41 171.53 171.65 171.78171.92  172.06
 Total operating costs               120.00 181.00 258.16 263.86 348.28 292.80 300.76 309.23 316.16528.59  354.70
Operating Profit                     143.50 220.40 168.67 190.34 135.11 302.21 332.63 365.09 391.54214.25  540.53
Financial charges:
   IBRD                               17.00  19.00 57.61   54.12 50.48 46.68    42.72  38.59 34.29 29.80    25.11
   Local Bank                         95.00 105.00 80.77 106.63 106.63 106.63 101.45   93.67 85.90 75.53    59.98
   Others                                  -     -  7.16    5.14  3.13       -      -      -      -     -        -
 Other income (expenses)                4.00  2.00      -      -      -      -      -      -      -     -        -
Profit Before Taxes/1                 35.50  98.40 30.29   29.59(22.00) 148.90 188.46 232.83 271.35108.92  455.44
 Income tax                                -     - 10.00    9.76      - 49.14   62.19  76.83 89.55 35.94   150.30


Net Profit After Taxes                35.50  98.40 20.29   19.83(22.00) 99.76 126.27 156.00 181.80 72.98   305.14


Actual: 2003, forecast: 2004 thereafter.
/_1: Starting 2005, income rate = 33.3%
/_2: Opened to traffic on April 2003.




                                                        - 42 -

             Table 3k: Guangdong: Sources and Applications of Funds-Consolidated
                                  (million Yuan, year ending 31, December)

                   1997  1998 1999      2000     2001      2002    2003 2004    2005    2006 2007       2008    2009 2010



Sources:
Net profits             -      -      -        -        -        -   35.5  98.40 20.29   19.83 (22.00)    99.8 126.27 156.00
Depreciation            -      -      -        -        -        -  54.00 100.00 171.08 171.19 171.29 171.41 171.53 171.65
State contribution  16.44  19.16 71.09   124.43    143.73   140.49  81.83  30.83      -      -        -      -       -        -
Provincial
  contribution      29.84  34.77 128.98  225.77    260.77   254.90 148.48  55.91      -      -        -      -       -        -
Borrowing: IBRD     40.12  46.76 173.43  303.59    350.66   342.76 199.65  75.19      -      -        -      -       -        -
             Local  40.80  47.54 176.36  308.71    356.57   348.54 203.02  76.46      -      -        -      -       -        -
Others              5.96   6.95  25.76    45.10     52.09    50.92  29.66  11.16      -      -        -      -       -        -


       Total       133.16 155.18 575.62 1,007.60 1,163.82 1,137.61 752.14 447.95 191.37 191.02 149.29 271.17 297.80 327.65


Applications:
Capital
  expenditure      133.16 155.18 575.62 1,007.60 1,163.82 1,137.61 662.64 249.55   6.03   6.33     6.65   6.98    7.33     7.70
Other expenditure       -      -      -        -        -        -      -      -      -      -        -      -       -        -
Loan repayment:
       IBRD             -      -      -        -        -        -  73.00  77.00 81.47   84.96   88.60   92.40   96.36 100.49
       Local            -      -      -        -        -        -      -      -      -      -        - 100.00 150.00 150.00
      Others            -      -      -        -        -        -      -      - 50.00   50.00   50.00   77.60       -        -
Change w/ capital       -      -      -        -        -        - (41.50) 74.40 (6.26) (15.85) (16.91) (64.65) (22.23) (23.72)


       Total       133.16 155.18 575.62 1,007.60 1,163.82 1,137.61 694.14 400.95 131.24 125.44 128.34 212.33 231.46 234.47


Net Funds Flow          -      -      -        -        -        -   58.0  47.00 60.13   65.58   20.95   58.84   66.34   93.18

 Open balance                                  -        -        -      -  58.00 105.00 165.13 230.71 251.66 310.50 376.84
 Closing balance                               -        -        -  58.00 105.00 165.13 230.71 251.66 310.50 376.84 470.02


D/S Cover                         --      --       --       --     1.23   2.58   2.35   2.25     1.68   1.41    1.21     1.31




                                                        - 43 -

                          Table 3l: Guangdong: Balance Sheet- Consolidated
                                  (million Yuan, year ending 31, December)

                            2003     2004     2005     2006     2007     2008     2009     2010     2011    2012     2013

Assets:
Fixed Assets
 At cost                    4,617.00 5,095.00 5,096.21 5,097.48 5,098.81 5,100.21 5,101.68 5,103.225,104.84 5,106.54 5,108.32
 Less: Depreciation            54.00   154.00  325.08    496.27  667.56   838.97 1,010.50 1,182.151,353.93 1,525.85 1,697.91
       Net fixed assets     4,563.00 4,941.00 4,771.13 4,601.21 4,431.25 4,261.24 4,091.18 3,921.073,750.91 3,580.69 3,410.41


Current Assets
 Inventory                         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -
 Receivable                    69.00    22.00   23.46     24.97   26.57    32.71    34.82     37.07  38.90    40.83    49.21
 Cash                          58.00   105.00  165.13    230.71  251.66   310.50   376.84    470.02 530.06   377.54   420.14
           Subtotal           127.00   127.00  188.59    255.68  278.23   343.21   411.66    507.09 568.96   418.37   469.35

Other Assets                  255.00   225.00  239.14    254.47  270.82   333.35   354.86    377.79 396.49   416.18   501.56


        Total Assets        4,945.00 5,293.00 5,198.86 5,111.36 4,980.30 4,937.80 4,857.70 4,805.954,716.36 4,415.24 4,381.32


Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity         1,510.00 1,500.00 1,435.09 1,406.51 1,336.28 1,380.00 1,509.75 1,669.541,852.98 1,927.72 2,262.78

L/T loans: IBRD             1,067.00 1,349.00 1,300.69 1,215.73 1,127.13 1,034.73  938.37    837.88 733.09   623.81   509.84
             Local          2,075.00 2,057.00 2,057.00 2,057.00 2,057.00 1,957.00 1,807.00 1,657.001,457.00 1,157.00  757.00
           Subtotal         3,142.00 3,406.00 3,357.69 3,272.73 3,184.13 2,991.73 2,745.37 2,494.882,190.09 1,780.81 1,266.84

Current Liabilities           197.00   263.00  270.72    288.08  306.59   377.38   401.72    427.69 448.86   471.14   567.80

Other Liabilities              96.00   124.00  135.36    144.04  153.30   188.69   200.86    213.84 224.43   235.57   283.90

Total Liabilities & Equity  4,945.00 5,293.00 5,198.86 5,111.36 4,980.30 4,937.80 4,857.70 4,805.954,716.36 4,415.24 4,381.32


Debt- to- equity ratio     68/32    69/31    70/30     70/30    70/30    68/32    65/35    61/39   56/44    51/49    42/58
Current ratio                0.6      0.5      0.7       0.9      0.9      0.9      1.0      1.2     1.3      0.9      0.8




                                                       - 44 -

                     Table 3m: Guangdong: Assumptions for Financial Forecasts

1. Toll and Traffic (AADT):
                         Small     Medium      Large       Small      Medium       Large     Tractor
                          car       bus         bus         truck      truck       truck     -Trailer Total

   Toll (Y/v-km) /_a     0.450      0.675      0.900       0.450       0.675       0.900      1.350

  1. Xiaotang - Daqiao
           2003          2,909      2,203       520          532       5,139       1,212      1,681   14,196
           2010          4,986      3,312       782          800       7,727       1,822      2,528   21,957
           2020          9,359      5,143      1,214       1,242      12,000       2,830      3,926   35,714
  2. Daqiao - Ruyuan
           2003          2,909      2,203       520          532       5,139       1,212      1,681   14,196
           2010          4,986      3,312       782          800       7,727       1,822      2,528   21,957
           2020          9,359      5,143      1,214       1,242      12,000       2,830      3,926   35,714
  3. Ruyuan - Gantang
           2003          2,909      2,203       520          532       5,139       1,212      1,681   14,196
           2010          4,986      3,312       782          800       7,727       1,822      2,528   21,957
           2020          9,359      5,143      1,214       1,242      12,000       2,830      3,926   35,714

  /_a: 15 % increase every 5 years.

2. Operating Taxes
     Business tax                   5.0% of the total revenue.
     City tax                       5.0% of the business taxes.
     Education levy                 3.0% of the business taxes.

3. Operating Cost:                       Increase 5 % pa.
     a. Wages and benefits          5.2%of total revenue
     b. Maintenance                 6.6%of total revenue
     c. Administration              7.0%of total revenue
     d. Others                      0.5%of total revenue
     e. Depreciation                  30years straight-line method.

4. Capital maintenance (MY/km):
     Increase 5% p.a.
                                     Routine              Medium                      Major
                                   maint./ year        maint./ 5 years           maint./ 10 years
                                      0.043                0.650                      1.200



5. Income tax rate                 33.3%, after 2005.

6. Borrowing:        The IBRD      4.24%, 20 year maturities, LIBOR US$ based single currency,
                                         5 years grace period and the foreign exchange risks.
                     Local Bank    5.18%, flexible principal payment.

                     Bonds         4.03%, flexible principal payment.




                                                         - 45 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/19/1994                4    Task Manager (1);
                                             Operations Unit Chief (1),
                                             Finance Specialist (1);
                                             Engineering Consultant (1);

              11/09/1994                8    Task Manager (1);
                                             Operations Unit Chief (1);
                                             Highway Engineer (1);
                                             Engineering Consultant (1);
                                             Finance Specialist (1);
                                             RMC Project Officer (1);
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1);
                                             Environment Specialist (1)
                                             Consultant (1)

              04/2/1995                 8    Task Manager (1) ;
                                             Operations Unit Chief (1)
                                             Highway Consultant (1) ;
                                             RMC Project Officer (1);
                                             Institutional SPEC. (1);
                                             Environment Specialist (1)
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1)
                                             Transport Consultant (1)

              07/26/1995                6    Task Manager (1);
                                             Highway Consultant (1);
                                             RMC Project Officer (1);
                                             Institutional Specialist (1);
                                             Environment Specialist (1);
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/26/1996                6    Task Manager (1)
                                             Highway Consultant (1);
                                             Institutional Consultant(1);
                                             Environment Specialist (1) ;
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1) ;
                                             Transport Specialist (1)

 Supervision

              06/15/1997                2    Task Manager (1);                    S               S
                                             Highway Consultant (1)
              11/28/1997                6    Task Manager (1);                    S               S
                                             Environment Specialist (1);
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1);




                                              - 46 -

                      Institutional Specialist (1);
                      Procurement Specialist (1);
                      Disbursement Specialist (1)
      05/21/1998    3 Task Manager (1);                     S    S
                      Highway Engineer (1);
                      Institutional Specialist (1)
      12/02/1998    4 Task Manager (1);                     S    S
                      Highway Engineer (1);
                      Institutional Specialist (1);
                      Resettlement Specialist (1)
      04/17/1999    3 Highway Engineer (1);                 S    S
                      Environment Specialist (1);
                      Resettlement Specialist (1)
      04/17/1999    4 Task Manager (1);                     S    S
                      Highway Engineer (1);
                      Institutional Specialist (1);
                      Resettlement Specialist (1)
      11/27/1999    4 Task Manager (1);                     S    S
                      Highway Engineer (1);
                      Environment Specialist (1);
                      Institutional Specialist (1)
      03/17/2000    2 Task Manager (1);                     S    S
                      Highway Engineer (1)
      07/15/2000    3 Task Manager (1);                     S    S
                      Highway Engineer (1);
                      Institutional Specialist (1)
      04/07/2001    4 Pr. Transport Finance Specialist      S    S
                      (1); Institutional Development
                      (1); Engineering (1);
                      Environment (1)
      11/23/2001    4 Team Leader (1);                      S    S
                      Engineering (1); Institutional (1);
                      Resettlement (1)
      05/31/2002    1 Team Leader (1)                       S    S
      12/07/2002    2 TTL/Pr. Transp. Fin. Spec. (1);       S    S
                      Institutional Consultant (1)
      03/15/2003    3 TTL/Pr. Transp. Fin. Spec.            S    S
                      (1);Engineering Consultant (1);
                      Senior Environment Spec. (1)
      07/25/2003    1 Engineering Consultant (1)            S    S
      03/04/2004    3 TTL/Pr. Transp. Fin. Spec. (1);       S    S
                      Finance Officer (1); Institutional
                      Development & Road Safety (1)

ICR
      10/01/2004    2 TTL/Sr. Transp. Specialist            S    S
                      (1); Highway Engineer (1)




                      - 47 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             134                           463
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    21                           63
  Supervision                              90                          558
  ICR                                      12                           40
  Total                                  257                         1,124




                                            - 48 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 49 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. The World Bank, Second National Highway Project: Staff Appraisal Report (No. 15428-CHA),
   November 12, 1996

2. The World Bank, Second National Highway Project: Loan Agreement (No. 4124-CHA),
   between the People's Republic of China and International Bank for Reconstruction and
   Development, August 29, 1997

3. The World Bank, Second National Highway Project: Project Agreement, between International Bank
   for Reconstruction and Development and Guangdong and Hunan Provinces, (No. 4124-CHA),
   August 29, 1997

4. The World Bank, Aide-memoires of the Second National Highway Project from 1994 to 2005

5. The World Bank, Project Status Reports for the Second National Highway Project (No. 1 to No. 18);
   from 1997 to 2004

6. The China Highway Engineering Consulting & Supervision Company (CHECSC), Report on
   "Evaluation of Traffic Forecast" and "Toll Rate Justification Analysis", August, 2002

7. The World Bank Project Office of Hunan Provincial Communications Department, Study Report
   on Toll Standard of Tanlei Expressway; December 2001

8. The World Bank Loan Office of Guangdong Provincial Communication Department, Research Report
   on Freeway Safety; August 2000

9. Hunan/Guangdong Project Headquarters, Documents for ICR, 2004




                                                   - 51 -

                                                                       112°                             113°                                      114°                   115°                                          116°
                      This map was produced by                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHINA
                      the Map Design Unit of The
                      World Bank. The boundaries,
                      colors, denominations and                                                                                               Xinyang                                                                                      NATIONAL HIGHWAY II
                      any other information shown
                      on this map do not imply, on                                Xiangfan                                                                                                                                      (HUNAN-GUANGDONG)
                      the part of The World Bank
                      Group, any judgment on the
                      legal status    of any territory,                                                                                                        HENAN                                                                                          PROJECT
              32°     or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                            32°

                      a c c e p t a n c e o f  s u c h
                      boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HIGHWAY PROJECTS:

                   0          20             40               60                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD FINANCING
                                                                                                                                                                                                ANHUI
                                 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INTERCONNECTING ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERCHANGES

                                                                          Jingmen          Han                                                                                                                                                              INTERCONNECTING ROADS

                                                                                               Shui                                                                                                                                                      COMPLETED PROJECT ROADS
                                                                                                        HUBEI
              31°                        Yichang                                                                                                                                                                       31°

                                                                                                                                                      Wuhan                                                                                           RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                         Huangzhou                                                                    RAILROADS
                                                                     Chang        Jiangling                                                                                                                                                           SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                          Jiang                                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                        Chang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL (INSET)
                                                                                                                                                                                             Jiang                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

              30°                                                                                                                                                                                                      30°                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                                                                                                                         Hong
                                                                                                                           Hu                            Xianning

                                                                                                                                 Jiang         Puqi

                                                                                                                            Chang
                                                               Linli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Zhuzhou
                                                                                                                         Yueyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Xiangtan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Poyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       116°  Hu                                       DASHIQIAO
                                                                Changde                                                                                                                                                                     29°
              29°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHANPU
                     Yuan  Jiang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gnaiJgnaiX
                                                                               Dongting Hu                                                                                                       Nanchang




                                                                                                                                                                         JinJiang                                           FuHe
                                                                HUNAN                                                                     Liuyang
                                                                                                           Changsha                                                                                                                                                   ZHUTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            28°
              28°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hengshan
                                                                                          Xiangtan                         Zhuzhou
                                            Fu Jia Ba                                                                                                       Yichun
                                                               Tan Jia   Yasitang
                                                Lian Yun                                                                                                                 Xinyu
                                                                                         DASHIQIAO                                    Liling
                                                                         Loudi                SHANPU
                                                                Xinqi                                          gnaiJgnaiX                       Pingxiang                       Gan Jiang                                                                                            XINGTANG


                                                                                        Hengshan          ZHUTING

                                                           Shaoyang                                                                                                                                                                                                        DAPU
                                                                                                          XINGTANG                                                   Ji'an

              27°                                                                                                                                                                                                                           27°
                                                                                                       DAPU                                                                                                                                                Hengyang
                                                                                Hengyang                                                                                                  JIANGXI
                                                                                                      HONGSHI                            Chaling                                                                                                                          HONGSHI

                                                                                                       GUANSHI

                                                                                  Jiang
                                                                             Xiang                      XINGSHI                                                                                                                                                             GUANSHI
                                                                                                         LEIYANG
                                                                                         Leiyang                                                                                                                                                       XiangJiang
                                                                                                         INSET A                                                                                                                                                                 XINGSHI
                                                            Yongzhou
              26°                                                                                                                                                                                 Qin           Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEIYANG

                                                                                                 Chenzhou
                                                                                                                                                                              Ganzhou                                                                                         Leiyang


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INSET A
                 GUANGXI
                                                                                                                                Dayuan
                                                                                              PINGSHI                                                                                                                MONGOLIA
                                                                                                   MEIHUA                                                                                                                                                                          LIAONING
              25°                                                                                                                                                                     25°                                                                                                               DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BEIJING                               REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Beijing
                                                                                                   DAQIAO                                                                                                                  NEI             MONGOL                 SHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TAINJIN SHI
                                   111°                                 112°                     DONGTIAN                              Shaoguan                                                                                                                   HEBEI                                       REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KOREA
                                                                                                      RUYUAN
                                                                                                                                       Gantang                                                                                                        SHANXI
                                                                                                                         SHEZHU                                                                                                                                        SHANDONG            Yellow
                                                                                                    INSET B                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea
                     Xiaotang                                                                                                                                                                            QINGHAI                    NINGXIA
                                                  Dayuan                                                                                                                                                                  GANSU                             HENAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHAANXI      Area of                  JIANGSU
              PINGSHI                                                                                                                          G U A N G D O N G                                                                                       main map
                                                                                         24°                                                                                          24°                                                                                                  SHANGHAI SHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ANHUI
                  MEIHUA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUBEI

                                                           Lechang                                                                                                      Tingjiang                                      SICHUAN                                                       ZHEJIANG              East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          China
                                                    W                                                                                                                                              XIZANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHONGQING
                                                     uJiang                                                                             Tang Tang                                                                                                                      JIANGXI                              Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HUNAN
                                    DAQIAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GUIZHOU                                         FUJIAN

                                               Guitou                                              Yinzhan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TAIWAN

                  DONGTIAN                                                                                                                                                                                         YUNNAN                      GUANGXI          GUANGDONG

DECEMBER            Nanshui                                                              23°                                    Taihe                                                 23°                                                                                 HONG KONG                                   IBRD
                   Reservoir                            SHEZHU         Shaoguan                                            Guangzhou                                                                                                                                  MACAO
                                    RUYUAN                          Gantang                Xijiang                                                                                                       ANMAR              VIETNAM                                                                                       27558R
                                                                                                                                                                                                              MY       LAO
        2004                                                                                                                                                                                                         PEOPLE'S
              INSET B                                                                     To                                                                                                                           DEM.                           HAINAN
                                                                                         Kaiping        113°                                                              115°                    THAILAND             REP.                                                               PHILIPPINES

