Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4124 CHA
Project Agreement
(Second National Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GUANGDONG PROVINCE
and
HUNAN PROVINCE
Dated August 29, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4124 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and GUANGDONG PROVINCE (Guangdong) and HUNAN PROVINCE 
(Hunan) (Guangdong and Hunan hereinafter collectively referred to as the Project 
Provinces, and individually as a Project Province).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project 
Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the concerned Project Province shall otherwise agree, each 
Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each Project Province shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and said Project Province, 
a plan for the 
future operation of its Respective Part of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
said Project 
Province on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress on its Respective Part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by 
said Project Province of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its Respective Part of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of said Project Province responsible for 
carrying out said Part of the Project.
(b)
Each Project Province shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
Page  3
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than 6 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of each Project 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each 
Project Province thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Guangdong Province:
Guangdong People’s Government
305 Dongfeng Road (c)
Guangzhou 510031
Guangdong Province
People’s Republic of China
Telex: 
44437 GDSIC CN
For Hunan Province:
Page  4
HPCD Foreign Capital Promotion Project Office
466 Bayi Road
Changsha, Hunan 410011
People’s Republic of China
Cable:
0024
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project 
Province may be taken or executed by the Governor or Vice Governor of said Project 
Province or such other person or persons as said Governor or Vice Governor shall 
designate in writing, and said Project Province shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
GUANGDONG PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong 
Authorized Representative
HUNAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong 
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Page  5
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for all contracts for works shall be prequalified in 
accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 2.09 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for 
works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C: 
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the estimated cost thereof, may be procured for up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 for each of Parts A and B of the Project, 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping Procedures
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent for each of Parts A and B of the Project, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Competitive Bidding
Works for Parts A(1) and B(1) of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed: (i) in 
the case of Guangdong, $24,600,000 equivalent; and (ii) in the case of Hunan, 
$57,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  6
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for:
(a)
works estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more; and
(b)
goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (i) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms; 
(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (iv) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to  $100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Environment, Land Acquisition and Resettlement
1.
In respect of Parts A (1) and B (1) of the Project, each Project Province shall:
(a)
implement its Respective EAPs and its Respective RAP in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
furnish any proposed revision to the plans referred to in paragraph (a) 
above to the Bank for its prior approval.
Page  7
2.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the implementation of its Respective EAPs and its Respective RAP; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank:
(i)
an annual environmental monitoring report during the construction 
phase under 
Part A(1) of the Project in respect of Guangdong, and 
under Part B (1) of the 
Project in respect of Hunan, and for 
each of the first three (3) years 
following completion 
of construction; and
(ii)
by December 31 of each year, commencing in 1996, internal 
monitoring reports 
prepared by appropriate agencies of said 
Project Province, and external 
monitoring reports 
prepared by an independent agency acceptable to the Bank 
regarding the implementation and impact of resettlement activities in said 
Project Province during the previous twelve (12) months.
B.
Construction Supervision
Each Project Province shall employ and maintain during the implementation of 
Parts A (1) and B (1) of the Project, construction supervision teams with qualified 
staff in adequate numbers to ensure that all works are carried out in accordance with 
technical specifications and that strict quality controls are exercised on all sites.  
C.
Part A (2) of the Project: Institutional Strengthening and Training in 
Guangdong
1.
Guangdong shall: (a) carry out the training under Part A (2) (b) of the Project 
in accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and (b) to that end, 
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval, by June 30 of each year commencing in 
1997, a rolling two-year training implementation schedule.
2.
Guangdong shall, by December 31, 2000, furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comments, an analysis and recommendations for the structure of toll-rates on the 
Xiaotang-Gantang Expressway, taking into consideration the results of studies on 
toll-rate structures under Bank-financed highway projects in China and the recent 
experience with toll-rates in Guangdong, Hunan and other provinces.
3.
Guangdong shall: (a) by June 30, 1997, establish a Leading Group with 
representation acceptable to the Bank to guide the study on transport and economic 
integration in the Changsha, Guangzhou, Hong Kong corridor under Part A (2) (a) of the 
Project; (b) by June 30, 1999, carry out said study in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish a draft final report thereof to said 
Leading Group and the Bank for review and comments; (c) furnish the final report of 
said study, taking into account comments made by the Leading Group and the Bank, to 
the Bank not later than six months following receipt of comments made by the Bank on 
said draft final report; and (d) thereafter, take all appropriate steps to implement 
the recommendations set out in said final report.
D.
Part A (3) of the Project: Program of Expressway Safety in Guangdong
Guangdong shall: (a) by June 30, 1997, establish a Leading Group with 
representation acceptable to the Bank to guide the study on expressway safety under 
Part A (3) of the Project; (b) by June 30, 1999, carry out said study in accordance 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish a draft final report 
thereof to said Leading Group and the Bank for review and comments; (c) furnish the 
final report of said study, taking into account comments made by the Leading Group and 
the Bank, to the Bank not later than six months following receipt of comments made by 
the Bank on said draft final report; and (d) thereafter, take all appropriate steps to 
implement the recommendations set out in said final report.
Page  8
E.
Part B (2) of the Project: Institutional Strengthening and Training in Hunan
1.
Hunan shall: (a) carry out the training under Part B (2) (c) of the Project in 
accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank, and (b) to that end, 
furnish to the Bank for its prior approval, by June 30 of each year commencing in 
1997, a rolling two-year training implementation schedule.
2.
Hunan shall, by December 31, 2000, furnish to the Bank for its review and 
comments, an analysis and recommendations for the structure of toll-rates on the 
Xiangtan-Leiyang Expressway, taking into consideration the results of studies on 
toll-rate structures under Bank-financed highway projects in China and the recent 
experience with toll-rates in Guangdong, Hunan and other provinces.
3.
Hunan shall: (a) by June 30, 1997, establish a Leading Group with representation 
acceptable to the Bank to guide the study on the management of highway maintenance 
under Part B (2) (a) of the Project; (b) by June 30, 1999, carry out said study in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish a draft final 
report thereof to said Leading Group and the Bank for review and comments; (c) furnish 
the final report of said study, taking into account comments made by the Leading Group 
and the Bank, to the Bank not later than six months following receipt of comments made 
by the Bank on said draft final report; and (d) thereafter, take all appropriate steps 
to implement the recommendations set out in said final report.
4.
Hunan shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, by June 30, of each 
year from 1997 until 2001, an annual highway maintenance report for the previous 
calendar year which shall: (a) indicate the length and condition of each class of road 
in Hunan; (b) establish targets for the following year, including an estimate of 
planned works and the costs thereof; and (c) measure the results and the actual 
expenditures of the past year against the targets and the funds budgeted therefor.
5.
Hunan shall: (a) by June 30, 1997 establish a Leading Group with representation 
acceptable to the Bank to guide the study on the commercialization of expressways 
under Part B (2) (b) of the Project; (b) by June 30, 1999, carry out said study in 
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish a draft final 
report thereof to said Leading Group and the Bank for review and comments; (c) furnish 
the final report of said study, taking into account comments made by the Leading Group 
and the Bank, to the Bank not later than six months following receipt of comments made 
by the Bank on said draft final report; and (d) thereafter, take all appropriate steps 
to implement the recommendations set out in said final report.
F.
Part B (3) of the Project: Program of Road Safety in Hunan
Hunan shall:
(a)
by June 30, 1997, establish and thereafter maintain a Leading Group with 
representation acceptable to the Bank to work with the Hunan Traffic Engineering 
Society in:
(i)
incorporating road safety issues into the agenda of the annual 
meetings of 
said Society; and
(ii)
establishing a program of annual seminars on road safety;
(b)
by June 30, 1999:
(i)
complete a manual on road safety at road works; a safety audit 
manual and a 
program of selected black spot analysis and 
improvement along National Route 
107 under Part B (3) of the 
Project, all in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish said manuals, and program to the Leading Group referred to 
in 
paragraph (a) of this Part F and to the Bank for 
review and comments; and
Page  9
(iii)
thereafter, take all appropriate measures to implement said 
manuals, and 
program, taking into consideration the 
comments of said Leading Group and the 
Bank thereon.
G.
Monitoring and Reporting
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions:
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the carrying out of its Respective Part of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) a quarterly report; and (ii) by June 30 of each year commencing in 1997 
and ending three (3) years after completion of its Respective Part of the Project, an 
annual report, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part G, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project during the period preceding the 
dates of such reports and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of said Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such dates; and
(b)
review with the Bank by such subsequent dates as the Bank shall request, 
the reports referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 2 and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its Respective Part of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3
Table 1a:  Development Indicators
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL DOCUMENT FOR TABLE, IT WILL NOT FIT IN DOCUMENT)
