Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20602
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(24640)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.0 MILLION (US$48.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE FAMILY HEALTH II PROJECT
JUNE 26, 2000
HEALTH, NUTRITION AND POPULATION SECTOR
SOUTH ASIA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 10, 2000)
Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 1.00 = USS 0.0193
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 51.8875
FISCAL YEAR
July I  -  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHU         Basic Health Unit
CDC         Communicable Disease Control
CPR         Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DFID        Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
DHDC        District/Divisional Health Development Center
DoH         Department of Health
DOTS        Directly Observed Treatment Short-course
EOC         Emergency Obstetric Care
EPI         Expanded Program of Immunization
FIC         Fully Immunized Children
fp          Family Planning
GoP         Government of Pakistan
GoBalochistanGovernment of Balochistan
GoPunjab    Government of Punjab
HDC         Health Development Center
HMIS        Health Management Information System
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
ICT         Islamabad Capital Territory
IDA         International Development Association
IMR         Infant Mortality Rate
IUD         Intra-uterine Device
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LHV         Lady Health Visitor
MCH         Maternal and Child Health
MoH         Ministry of Health
MTR         Mid-term Review
NBF         Not for Bank Funding
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NGO         Nongovernmental Organization
PC- I       Planning Commission Form I
PDHS        Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey
PFFPS       Pakistan Fertility and Family Planning Survey
PHNS        Public Health Nursing School
PIHS        Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
PHC         Primary Health Care
PHDC        Provincial Health Development Center
RHC          Rural Health Center
RH           Reproductive Health
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
SAP         Social Action Program
SAPP         Social Action Program Project
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
TB          Tuberculosis
TBA          Traditional Birth Attendant
TT          Tetanus Toxoid
WHO         World Health Organization
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimnizu
Country Manager/Director:   John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:   Richard Lee Skolnik
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Hugo Diaz-Etchevehere/Muhammad Bashirul Hag



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   13
6. Sustainability                                                                       14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      18
9. Partner Comments                                                                     19
10. Additional Informnation                                                            19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  32
Annex 8. Borrower/Implementing Agencies's Contribution to the ICR                       34
Annex 9. Cofinanciers' Contribution to the ICR                                         43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P0 10414                                      Project Name: FAMILY HEALTH II
Team Leader: Muhammad Bashirul Haq                        TL Unit: SASHP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 25, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: FAMILY HEALTH 11                               L/C/TF Number: 24640
Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                             Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: HT - Targeted Health
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/17/90                                Effective. 07/15/93            07/12/93
Appraisal:  05/25/92                                  MTR: 06/15/96              06/11/97
Approval:  02/23/93                                Closing: 06/30/99             12/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN/BALOCHISTAN & PUNJAB DOH
Other Partners: Department for International Development (DFID), United Kingdom;
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), Germany
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Joseph D. Wood
Country Manager:     John W. Wall                               Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:      Richard Lee Skolnik                        Roberto Cuca
Team Leader at ICR:   Hugo Diaz-Etchevehere                    Christopher D. Walker
ICR Primary Author:   Muhammed Bashirul Haq
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HlU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective was to improve the health status of the population in general, but with
special emphasis on high-risk and under-privileged sections of the community in the Provinces of
Punjab and Balochistan and the Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT). This objective was to be
accomplished through (a) increasing the availability and quality of maternal health services,
including family planning; (b) improving the quality and integration of primary health care
services, particularly for communicable disease control (CDC); and (c) building the institutional
capacity to realize the above objective.
The objectives were in line with the National Health Policy of the Government of Pakistan (GoP)
announced in May 1990, and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of June 12, 1992.
The project design took into account the lessons learnt from an earlier population project, the
International Development Association (IDA) experience in education projects, and other donors'
experience in the health sector including the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID).
The project was co-financed with the Department for International Development (DFID) and
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW). The project was carried out in the context of the Bank
and other donors' work with government through the Social Action Program Projects I and II
(SAPP I and SAPP II). The Social Action Program provided a framework within which
government addressed key policy matters in the health sector and financed certain inputs at the
community level. As such, the Social Action Program helped to create an enabling environment
for the Family Health II Project.
The borrower's commitment to changing the existing situation was reflected in its Policy
Framework Paper at that time, which committed it to increases in development and recurrent
spending for Primary Health Care (PHC), especially Maternal and Child Health (MCH) care; a
Public Sector Adjustment Loan; and undertakings in the Social Action Program in the form of
time-bound plans for policy and institutional reforms and improving program implementation.
The project, in retrospect, had a few shortcomings. It was complex, as it involved nine
implementing agencies and six nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) with a large geographical
spread covering 61 districts and about 54 million rural population. The complexity increased as it
was funded by three donors under parallel financing, who had different rules and procedures for
operations. For instance, the project became effective at different times (IDA - July 12, 1993;
DFID - 14 months after IDA; and KfW - 16 months later) and had different closing dates (IDA -
June 30, 1999; DFID - December 1999, and KfW - December 2000). At the design stage,
agreement was not reached on a framework for joint monitoring by the donors, or on
performance indicators which would form the basis of project monitoring. It took nearly two
years to reach an agreement on the indicators.
- 2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no change in the original objective.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components were ambitious in terms of scope and targets and were not in line with
the technical and management capacity of the implementing agencies. The project had four major
components:
*  Strengthening Health Services (US$64.5 million). This component included: (a) the
introduction of an enhanced package of maternal health services, including family planning
and (b) integrating and expanding communicable disease control activities, mainly in rural
areas but with some experiments in urban areas. The project also included support for
emergency referral services including obstetric emergencies and expanding the health services
of six well-established NGOs.
i  Staff Development (US$31.2 million). This component included: (a) the introduction of a
comprehensive, continuing in-service training program for existing PHC staff and (b)
expanded female paramedical training and improved quality.
*  Management and Organization Development (US$13.2 million). This component included
activities to improve the institutional capacity for planning and management.
*  Federal Component (US$5.2 million). This component included: (a) developing primary
health services in the ICT and (b) strengthening health systems research (HSR) capacity.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project restructuring in May 1997 sought to bring the project in closer alignment with
implementation capacity. It involved changes in the scope of the project components in terms of
reduction of targets and deletion/addition of some activities. The deleted activities had low
priority or had experienced prolonged implementation delays, or resources were made available
for them from outside the project.
New activities introduced were to pilot interventions such as decentralization of health services to
the district level, tuberculosis (TB) treatment using the directly observed treatment short-course
(DOTS), reproductive health, and community-based education for medical students (for PHC
orientation). However, the broad original project components remained unchanged.
The total estimated project cost declined as a result of restructuring by about 25%. The IDA
credit was reduced from its original amount of US$48 million equivalent to US$28.73 million
equivalent at the time of restructuring. Later, in April 1999, the Bank further canceled an amount
of US$3.7 million equivalent from the IDA credit because of slow implementation and exchange
-3 -



rate-related savings.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
In this Implementation Completion Report (ICR), the quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory.
The project was consistent with the CAS and sector strategy. The programs of the two provinces
were fully in accordance with the Social Action Program proposed by the Government to ensure
better implementation of ongoing activities in the social sectors. However, the project turned out
to exceed the implementing agencies' capacity, a fact that was acknowledged at restructuring.
There was no Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review at the time of this project preparation.
However, a QAG supervision assessment in August 1997 noted that the project design was sound
but complex and extremely ambitious, and that the project was not ready for implementation at
approval.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not make very clear the objectives of the project. Nor did it
make very clear exactly what was to be done to reach the objectives as stated, or offer a small
number of indicators that would be used to measure the achievement of outcomes. Rather, the
SAR noted in the annexes a large number of indicators, some of which related to the Social
Action Program and some to this project. However, it was not clear what was the exact relation
of the two sets of indicators.
As the project unrolled, and as confirmed at the Mid-term Review (MTR), the Bank and
Government agreed on a small set of mostly process indicators that could be used to track how
the project was doing. These focused largely on the amounts of services used, and clients for
maternal health services, the number of places where appropriate services would be offered, and
immunization rates, as well as some indicators relating to the building of capacity.
The comments below on the achievement of objectives follow the refinement of objectives as they
were elaborated over the first few years of the project and at the MTR.
Overall, the project inputs, put in place in an enabling environment assisted by the Social Action
Program, contributed to an important improvement in maternal health services, immunization, the
start of TB control, and helped to build important capacity in the health sector in two provinces.
Thus, the project is deemed to have been satisfactory in meeting its objectives.
4.1.1 Increasing the availability and quality of maternal health services, includingfaimily planning
Based on Department of Health (DoH) service statistics, a rising trend in utilization of MCH
services was observed in the rural health facilities during the project life. DoH Balochistan
provided antenatal care to 11.5% of pregnant women in 1996 which increased to 19.8% in
1998 while the number of supervised deliveries by trained birth attendants increased from
3.8% to 6.3% in the same period. In rural Punjab, antenatal care services increased from 11%
- 4 -



in 1996 to 23.6% in 1998 while the proportion of deliveries supervised increased from 5.7% to
11% during this period. The envisaged target for the provision of antenatal care to 20% of
pregnant women has, therefore, been largely met. Higher utilization of MCH services could
probably have been achieved if planned social mobilization activities had been implemented.
Most PHC facilities are currently providing family planning services as compared to a small
percentage in 1993. This was believed to be under 5%, although a benchmark was not
established in 1993 as provision of family planning services was not part of the PHC package.
At project close, 83% of PHC facilities having female staff in Balochistan and 82% in Punjab
were providing family planning services and advice. The total clients for family planning
services served during calendar year 1999 were 566,000 in Punjab and 201,000 in Balochistan,
which were almost three times more than the ones served two years before.
A Health Facility Survey of 128 PHC facilities, conducted in April 1999 to compare the
situation in 1993 with 1998, showed an increase over the base year in antenatal clients (52% in
Punjab and 120% in Balochistan) and family planning clients (67% in Punjab and 126% in
Balochistan); an improvement in the availability of contraceptives and essential drugs (an
increase by more than 100% for 15 essential drugs in Punjab and 18 in Balochistan out of 30
essential drugs); and an improved female health staff situation (with females working in 87%
of sample PHC facilities in Punjab and 82% in Balochistan).
A study conducted in 1999, covering 12,000 married women from 2,000 households in 80
villages from eight districts in Punjab, and supplemented by a review of 22 health facilities,
revealed that 18.2% of all deliveries were attended by a trained person (12.1% by doctors and
6. 1% by lady health visitors (LHVs); 11.8% of deliveries took place in a hospital; 37.2%
received antenatal care from an LHV or a doctor and the mean number of antenatal visits was
3.9; 19 out of 22 sample facilities were providing MCH care; 21 sample facilities had an LHV
in position; and 13 out of 15 Tehsil hospitals and rural health centers (RHCs) had a female
doctor in position.
The service delivery outlets of provincial DoHs and of the provincial Population Welfare
Departments were the main source of servicing the rural clients for family planning services.
The increase in the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) among the rural population and
improved knowledge of contraception can therefore be partly credited to the project.
According to the Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey of 1990/91, the CPR was 13% in
Punjab and 2% in Balochistan, while the percentage of currently married women who knew at
least one method of contraception was 80% in Punjab and 36% in Balochistan. The Pakistan
Fertility and Family Planning Survey of 1996/97 revealed that the CPR had increased to 26.8%
in Punjab and 7.1 % in Balochistan, while the percentage of currently married women who
knew at least one method of contraception had risen to 94% in Punjab and 78% in
Balochistan. The comparison of CPR in rural populations of Punjab and Balochistan between
1994/95 and 1996/97 also showed an upwards trend; it had moved from 14.1% to 22.2% in
Punjab and from 1.9% to 4% in Balochistan.
The provincial DoHs substantially improved gender balance through increased recruitment of
female staff and provision of incentives. The stock of female paramedics at PHC and first
- 5 -



referral facilities increased more than two fold in Balochistan from 243 in 1993 to 641 in 1998
and by 27% in Punjab from 2,730 in 1993 to 3,462 in 1999. More specialists (63) and
equipment were made available at first level referral hospitals during 1997/99.
Support to six major NGOs for upgrading their maternity services is a successful example of
public-private partnership. Overall, there is a need to focus on quality of care through
follow-up interventions for improving the outcome of obstetric emergencies and maternal and
child care.
4.1.2 Improve the qualitv and integration of primary health care services, particularly for communicable
disease control
Improvements were registered in malaria control and immunization of the target population.
The pilot for TB control through DOTS strategy in Balochistan province was highly
successful, and World Health Organization (WHO) recommended expansion of the program.
The integration of CDC programs was one of the legal covenants of the project but progress
was only registered in development of a conceptual framework for integration.
Immunization. The Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 1990/91 revealed that the
proportion of fully immunized children (FIC) in the age group 12-23 months was only 38.6%
in Punjab and 17.8% in Balochistan, while pregnant women who received two or more doses
of tetanus toxoid (TT) vaccine were 23% in Punjab and 6% in Balochistan. According to the
Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) of 1996/97, the immunization coverage rates
show substantial improvement: FIC of 12-23 months age were 51% in Punjab (urban 57% and
rural 49%) and 59% in Balochistan (urban 70% and rural 57%). The PIHS did not record
coverage of pregnant women with two or more doses of TT. However, a TT coverage study
of 1999 conducted in Punjab province showed that 39% of married women had received 2-5
doses of TT vaccination.
Malaria control activities. Surveillance activities have markedly improved in the last three
years. The number of patients screened through blood tests almost doubled while the number
of confirmed malaria cases declined by about two and a half times in Balochistan and around
five times in Punjab. The proportion of falciparum malaria also came down from 37% to 23%
in Balochistan and from 48% to 18.6% in Punjab.
TB control using DOTS strategy. The program was introduced on a pilot basis in Balochistan,
and 167 sputum positive cases were detected during January 1998-October 1999. The sputum
conversion rate was 89% while the cure rate was 82%. This led to a change in TB treatment
policy from a conventional clinic based approach to the DOTS strategy.
4.1.3 Building the institutional capacity
Continuing education. The establishment of 38 Health Development Centers (HDCs) at the
provincial and divisional/district levels led to the evolution of a system of ongoing in-service
training for service providers and managers. These HDCs will continue functioning as
provincial governments transfer their operational costs to their regular budgets. The targets set
- 6 -



for in-service training were also met. However, an independent review rated the quality of
in-service training as only marginally satisfactory.
Improving gender balance. Expansion of pre-service training of female paramedics was
achieved through seven Public Health Nursing Schools (PHNS) which were established or
upgraded under the project. Communication programs initiated in Balochistan focused on
recruiting local young women for admission to the PHNSs instead of young women from
other provinces. For instance, all 85 trainees selected in 1999 were local young women, as
compared to just one in 1993. However, the quality of training was found marginally
satisfactory in two newly established PHNSs in Punjab province.
Improved planning and management capacity. Long- and short-term training courses abroad for
DoH staff have substantially contributed to establishing a team of public health practitioners with
skills in management and planning. The Health Planning Cells in the provinces are now staffed by
a group of trained professionals.
Decentralization of health services to district level. The provincial DoHs made significant
progress in the decentralization of powers. Achievements in this regard include:
conceptualizing a model after two years of field testing; application of the tested model
separately at district and hospital level; and initial development of administrative and financial
protocols. The Government of Punjab also enacted an Autonomy Bill in November 1998 to
provide legal cover to the health sector decentralization initiatives.
Health Management Information System (HMIS). The system has been established for
first-level health care facilities at outpatient level in both provinces. Nevertheless, the use of
HMIS data in planning and management is only starting to take roots.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The achievement of the physical targets, as revised during the MTR, is satisfactory. The
component wise project inputs described below are only the broad details and do not represent
the entire picture.
Component 1: Strengthening Health Services
MCH services were improved by the upgradation of 30 dispensaries with the addition of an
MCH section; construction of 102 residences for LHVs; supply of equipment including 2,300
intra-uterine device (IUD) insertion tables and kits, 2,000 MCH kits, 758 baby resuscitation kits,
and weighing scales; in-service training of LHVs in areas of MCH, family planning and health and
nutrition education; supply of 24 vehicles for supervision; and improved availability of female
health staff, medicines and logistics. The skills of 4,800 practicing traditional birth attendants
(TBAs) were also enhanced through training along with the supply of delivery kits.
Health and Nutrition Education. Modest contributions were made through in-service training in
areas of interpersonal communication (IPC) and nutrition education, and preparation of two video
films for IPC training and TB DOTS promotion. A communication campaign for Student Health
- 7 -



Education and Parent Education was highly successful for motivating local young women in
Balochistan to join paramedic and nursing schools.
Preventive Programs. A joint WHO, World Bank, and DFID mission reviewed implementation
of TB control using the DOTS strategy in a pilot district of Balochistan in March 1999. The
results were promising, and the joint review mission recommended program expansion. After the
review mission, DoH Balochistan expanded TB control to another eight districts. Currently 90%
of TB cases are supervised by the community within the DOTS approach. A building for
establishing a Public Health Laboratory was completed in Balochistan province, but DoH could
not fully equip it before project closing for lack of timely procurement of all needed equipment.
The DoH Punjab strengthened its malaria control program by providing 2,595 bicycles for
outreach workers, 242 motorcycles for supervisory staff, repair of 27 vehicles, and antimalarial
drugs. The DoH Balochistan provided 50 motorcycles, 100 spray pumps, 11 mini-foggers, and
antimalarial drugs.
DoH Punjab strengthened its immunization program, using the project's KfW grant, by
providing 86 million disposable syringes, 10 refrigerated vans, eight cold rooms, 300 ice liner
refrigerators, 100 deep freezers, 702 vaccine storage refrigerators, 80 generators, 800 cold boxes,
2,500 vaccine carriers, 9,000 flasks, 2,500 dial/VP thermometers, and eight cold chain repair kits
(for some items the delivery is planned up to December 2000). The Expanded Program of
Immunization (EPI) program was also provided with 1,258 bicycles for outreach work, 252
motorcycles, and 106 vehicles for monitoring and supervision. The cold chain and supervisory
vehicles, if maintained properly, should remain functional for the next ten years. The inputs in
Balochistan were restricted to major repair of 23 vehicles, supply of 10 new vehicles, and two
mnillion disposable syringes.
Upgrading referral services. The KfW grant contributed to refurbishing 82 district and tehsil
hospitals in the areas of blood bank, diagnostic and monitoring equipment (laboratory,
anaesthesia, sonography, X-ray), MCH equipment, and provision of medicines and other supplies.
TIhe equipment to refurbish Intensive Care Units of Balochistan district hospitals reached in March
2000, while in Punjab some equipment is planned to reach end users up to December 2000. The
IDA Credit supported procurement of 24 ambulances for district hospitals. The two provincial
DoHs recruited 63 specialists during 1994/99 (44 in Punjab and 19 in Balochistan) to improve
emergency handling capacity including obstetric and paediatric emergencies. However, it is too
early to assess the impact of additional resources in enhancing the quality of and access to
emergency services.
Pilot-testing Reproductive Health package. The DoH Balochistan in 1998 developed a
Reproductive Health package for testing on a pilot basis. The staff training, baseline survey, and
improvements in buildings were completed. An ambulance was also assigned for obstetric
emergencies. Implementation is planned during 2000/01 using the Govemment's own
development budget.
-8 -



Improvement in staff mix and skill mix. The DoH Balochistan recruited 18 female supervisors,
398 female paramedics, and 80 female doctors during 1993-1999 at district level and below,
thereby improving gender balance. Since 1997, the DoH Punjab recruited 1,862 technical staff
comprising LHVs, male medical officers, women medical officers, and specialists at tehsil and
district hospitals. However, PHC facilities in hard to reach areas continue to face shortages of
female paramedics. Two hundred and fifty two posts of LHVs for example, were vacant in Punjab
province by the end of the project.
Support to NGOs for maternal health through KfW grant. In Balochistan, the Farnily
Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP) was assisted in establishing a maternity hospital at
Quetta and in upgrading a maternity facility in the interior of the province. The latter facility is
operational while the first one would be operational by December 2000. The Lady Dufferin
Maternity Hospital, Quetta, was also assisted in expanding its nursing school and renovating the
hospital building. In Punjab, five NGOs were assisted in establishing or expanding MCH and
maternity services in three cities. All facilities would become functional by December 2000.
Expansion of Local Government MCH services. Four MCH centers were constructed for the
Municipal Corporation, Quetta, besides supply of two dump trucks for sanitation and spray
equipment. However, the MCH centers have been awaiting commissioning for one year.
The DoH Punjab could not implement the planned Urban MCH activities in two Municipal
Corporations and inputs for sanitation because these municipalities failed to provide land for
construction and funds for incremental operating costs. With the DFID grant, 30 MCH centers of
the Lahore Metropolitan Corporation (LMC) were strengthened along with a health promotion
center and training in reproductive health. The continuation of these interventions at present level
is unlikely because of budgetary shortfalls.
Component 2: Staff Development
Provincial Health Development Centers (PHDCs) and Divisional/District Health
Development Centers (DHDCs). Balochistan established seven centers (one PHDC and six
DHDCs) housed in newly constructed buildings with an attached hostel, while Punjab established
one PHDC and 30 DHDCs (two DHDCs in Punjab were not functional at project closing). These
institutions provided support to the DoHs in the areas of management development, human
resource development, health and nutrition education, and monitoring and evaluation. The last
function was, however, not fully developed.
The DoH Balochistan prepared 33 in-service training curricula and met the in-service training
targets. For example, 2,710 persons were trained and retrained in technical areas and 2,744 in
management areas including training in HMIS. In Punjab, the PHDC prepared 20 in-service
training curricula and met 99% of the in-service training targets. Transfer of trained staff from
these centers and their replacement with untrained staff was a major concern during project
implementation.
-9-



An independent review of PHDCs and DHDCs revealed that the impact of training in enhancing
the skills of the staff was less than desirable. The recommendations of the review were discussed
during the ICR mission, and there was agreement to institute appropriate measures to retrain staff,
vacant posts at PHDCs and DHDCs, and that PHDC would continue to review the curricula for
creating a better balance between theory and hands-on training.
Expansion of training for female paramedics, nurses, and postgraduate public health
training for doctors. In Balochistan the project substantially contributed to improving the
physical facilities (construction of hostels, MCH center, labour rooms, staff offices, equipment
and furniture) and in meeting additional staffing needs of already functioning schools, including
three PHINSs and one Nursing School. The project also initiated educational programs to attract
local young women for pre-service training as paramedics and nurses. The campaign was highly
successful. At present, all LHV trainees are local young women while in 1993 there was only one.
The project, in conjunction with an ADB-funded project, contributed to increasing enrollment
capacity for LHVs in PHNSs from 25 in 1993 to 85 in 1999. DoH also established an Institute of
Public Health with a qualified faculty of 18 members. The first batch of trainees for a diploma in
public health was inducted in April 2000.
In Punjab the two PHNSs at Lahore and Multan were substantially improved. In 1998, DoH
commissioned two new PHNSs in temporary premises. The permanent buildings of these two
schools and attached hostels are now complete and occupied. The newly commissioned PHNSs
have only 9 tutors against the requirement of 30, based on the standards set by the Pakistan
Nursing Council. The DoH plans to provide additional furniture and equipment in these schools
and in all the PHDC/ DHDCs up to December 2000 using the KfW grant. The enrollment of
LHVs has increased from 370 in 1994 to 520 in 1999.
Technical Assistance (TA) and Fellowships. In Balochistan technical skills of DoH staff were
enhanced in relevant fields through 13 short-term and seven long-term training courses. Technical
and management capacity of the DoH was also expanded through 51 short-tern and nine
long-term consultants.
In Punj'ab technical assistance was provided through 18 long-term and 38 short-term consultants.
The project also funded 15 long-term and seven short-term fellowships in various disciplines of
public health. All fellows returned back and were working in the DoH by the end of the project.
Eleven studies were done, covering a health facility survey; quality review of in-service training;
quality review of civil works; unit costs of first level care facilities; institutional review of PHDC
and DHDCs; situation analysis on administrative positions for females in DoH Punjab; tetanus
toxoid coverage study; assessment of health services development; equipment effectiveness audit;
community participation in the Lady Health Workers program; and assessment of human resource
development.
Focus group discussions in December 1999 revealed that long-term consultants were helpful in
institutional strengthening. However, there were mixed feelings on the usefulness of short-term
TA. All the studies were rated as useful except the last two.
- 10-



Twining arrangements. The PHDCs in Punjab and Balochistan established linkages with the
Institutes of Public Health at Quetta and Lahore in the area of in-service training, with the
Provincial Population Welfare Departments for family planning services, with Balochistan
University, and with PHDCs in other provinces.
Component 3: Management and Organization Development
Decentralization. In Balochistan major preparatory work for decentralizing health systems to the
district level in six districts was completed a year before the project closing including short-term
in-service training and re-training of health staff in supervision and management. The DoH
submitted a proposal to the government in 1998, outlining the administrative and financial
changes required at the district level. However, no decision was taken by the Government by the
project closing date.
The Government of Punjab enacted an Autonomy Bill in November 1998 to decentralize health
management to the district level, as well as the management of tertiary care hospitals. Pilot testing
for decentralizing health management to the district level in four districts showed improvements in
service delivery and governance aspects. The DoH submitted a proposal in October 1999 for
approval of the Government, outlining the administrative and financial changes required at the
district level. The decision to proceed with decentralization to the district level has been delayed
because of the change of Government in October 1999.
Health Management Information System (HMIS). The district offices of the DoHs were
provided computers and supplies for the HMIS and staff training. In Balochistan, 56% of all PHC
facilities were reporting on HMIS instruments in 1998 (against a target that 90% PHC facilities
would start reporting by June 1999). The reporting rate in Punjab rose from 11% in 1994 to 95%
in 1999 against a target of 95%. There were deficiencies in data analysis, feedback and use of data
for management and planning.
Component 4: Federal Component
The Pakistan Medical Research Council (PMRC) organized 38 orientation and eight in-depth
workshops for capacity building in Health Systems Research. More than 800 participants were
trained. In addition, two data analysis and report writing workshops were also arranged, and
skills of 42 participants were enhanced. Thirty-four research studies in priority areas
(excluding the National Health Survey of Pakistan) were completed and disseminated.
Equipment was also provided to six research institutions for strengthening their data analysis
capacity.
The overall implementation by the ICT health administration had been slower than planned. There
were improvements in several areas like delivery of MCH services, improved staff mix, skill
development of staff through in-service training, implementation of HMIS, and initiation of
treatment of TB cases on DOTS strategy. However, immunization rates of target population were
low especially of women against tetanus and there was lack of utilization of HMIS data for
- 11 -



feedback to the facilities and re-planning.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project successfully established an extensive network of two PHDCs and 36 DHDCs at
province, division, and district level which are now the nucleus for work on management
development, human resource development, health and nutrition education, and monitoring
and evaluation. These institutions have begun training large numbers of health staff in
management and in technical areas. However, currently the quality of training is only
marginally satisfactory. The quality of training is highly likely to improve with follow-up
through SAPP II.
Forty-three health professionals trained abroad in management, planning, human resource
development, health education, and other topics, have returned and were generally posted
against relevant positions. These trained professionals have started contributing to improved
planning and management such as the development of decentralized health systems, the
improvement of gender balance, expansion of TB control using DOTS strategy, and
developing a reproductive health pilot project. The research activities carried out under the
project have enhanced operational research capacity in the country through availability of
human resources trained in systems research.
The two provincial DoHs in the project benefited from the work of more than 89 short-term
consultants, both expatriate and local consultants. During focus group meetings, almost 75%
of these consultants were rated as useful by the implementing agencies. In the last two years of
the project, a local counterpart was attached to every visiting consultant which helped to
enhance knowledge and skills of these individuals. Twenty seven long-term consultants also
assisted in imparting skills to the DoH staff in areas of planning, management, human resource
development, and district health systems.
The provincial DoHs undertook extensive groundwork for decentralization of health
management to district level and conducted testing in 10 districts. This initial experience
would be an asset for the DoHs to carry forward the more ambitious decentralization agenda
of the new government. The HMIS for first level care facilities has been firmly established, and
data generated should assist in improved planning.
Staff training and on-the-job experience in procurement procedures and financial management,
especially in the later years of the project, have equipped some managers with skills in these areas.
This would be beneficial for future procurement and for improving internal financial controls.
- 12 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two changes of government in the early stages of the project temporarily slowed down the pace
of implementation. Separate legal agreements with each of the three donors, with different
effectiveness and closing dates, and lack of a framework for joint monitoring created a complex
arrangement for implementation. Furthermore, the DFID suspended its grant 14 weeks before its
original closing date of December 31, 2000 due to takeover by the military, and some of the
ongoing activities were left incomplete.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The two provincial governnents signed their legal agreement with DFID 14 months after
effectiveness of the IDA Credit, and with KfW 16 months later. The delayed signing of
agreements substantially affected implementation of planned activities in the first two years of
project life. The Finance and Planning & Development Departmnents in Punjab province started
reopening the parameters of the approved project and repeatedly raised questions about the
validity of the approved plans. The project suffered due to frequent transfers of senior managers
and project staff, and from political interference, especially in Balochistan. However, sector
policies favoured a shift of budgetary resources towards disease prevention and health promotion
under the framework of the Social Action Program.
During the course of implementation, the adequacy and timeliness of provision of counterpart
funds were never a problem in the provinces of Balochistan and Punjab, but adequate funding and
releases of allocated funds remained a major concern for the small federal component managed by
the Ministry of Health.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The factors subject to implementing agency control were mainly related to management
effectiveness.
- Weak financial reporting and monitoring resulted in financial mis-management throughout
project implementation. Although audit reports were submitted, many of them contained
observations that were required to be resolved by Government. An effective financial
management system for the project should have been established.
* The Director General Health (DGH) and his line managers in Punjab did not accept the
"ownership" of the project in early periods. This was because a clear line of command for
carrying out project implementation was not established between the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), the DGH and the Health Secretariat, which created implementation bottlenecks
prior to MTR.
* The DoH Punjab did not agree to apply the Bank procedures for procurement of goods for
nearly two years, thereby decelerating project implementation, and this impasse was finally
resolved with instructions from the Chief Minister of the province to use the procurement
- 13-



procedures of the respective donors.
* The project staff had to follow four different sets of procedures (World Bank, DFID, KfW,
and GoP) to meet the requirements for procurement of goods and services, which resulted in
confusion and obstacles at different levels and even led to re-tendering of procurement of
vehicles in Punjab province.
*  Land for construction was not acquired in a timely way; and building designs, consultants'
terms of references and bid documents were not finalized in a timely manner.
* Most project staff, in early periods of project life, did not have sufficient experience for
managing a large size project, especially the software components.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was estimated at US$ 114.0 million equivalent at the time of appraisal and
was to be financed by a GoP contribution of US$3 1.6 million equivalent, an IDA credit of
US$48.0 million equivalent (SDR 35.0 million), a KfW grant of US$22.2 million equivalent and a
DFID grant of US$12.2 million equivalent.
As of the time of closing of the IDA credit (December 31, 1999), total project expenditure
amounted to US$58.6 million, or about 51% of the total project cost estimated at appraisal in
US$ terms. The total project expenditure was financed as follows: government contribution,
US$8.5 million; IDA credit, US$22.3 million (SDR 16.1 million); DFID grant, US$10.8 million;
and KfW grant, US$17.0 million.
Several factors explain the large difference between total project cost estimated at appraisal and
total project expenditure, including: (a) the restructuring of the project in 1997; (b) slower than
anticipated implementation subsequent to restructuring; (c) the DFID grant was not fully
disbursed because of suspension of DFID assistance in October 1999; (d) the KfW grant is still
under disbursement until December 2000; (e) some of the project inputs were made available from
outside the project (like contraceptives); and (f) exchange rate-related savings.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The project's sustainability has been rated "Likely." As compared with the situation before the
project started, there is a stronger government commitment to provision of the types of health
services which were the focus of the project--maternal and child health including family planning
and communicable disease control. The prospects are good that these services will continue to
expand and become more effective. Specific examples that point in this direction include:
* Many more couples are choosing to use contraceptives, as reflected in the rising trend in the
contraceptive prevalence rate in recent years.
* The proportion of pregnant women availing themselves of antenatal care services and the
- 14 -



proportion of deliveries attended by trained personnel are expected to expand because
substantial numbers of LHVs have taken up jobs at rural PHC facilities and the capacity for
pre-service training of LHVs has been increased by almost 50%.
*  The expansion of MCH services including family planning at the community level through the
Lady Health Workers program is expected to continue until nationwide coverage is obtained.
*  The Ministry of Health in collaboration with SAPP II donors and WHO are presently
undertaking a strategic review of the imrnunization program for taking corrective measures.
The Global Alliance for Vaccine Initiative (GAVI) has also shown an interest in supporting
the immunization program in Pakistan for the introduction of new antigens.
*  A new culture of continuing education is firmly in place with the establishment of a network
of PHDCs and DHDCs.
*  The TB control program is expanding in all provinces using the DOTS strategy.
*  The Autonomy Bill of November 1998 enacted by the Government of Punjab became the
basis for appraisal of the "Hospital Autonomy Project."
*  The expanded MCH and maternity services of five well established NGOs will help in
expanding services for low income groups.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has transferred the operational costs of the project to the regular budget from
July 1999. This included PAK Rs 123.2 million for continuation of the jobs of paramedics and
doctors recruited under the category of "incremental staff' for delivery of health services and
PAK Rs 53.1 million for continuing operations of newly established or expanded institutions like
HDCs, planning cells, and PHNSs. The PHDCs and DHDCs have been placed under the
administrative control of the Director General of Health in each province. These centers have
made twinning arrangements with other institutions for technical support. Staff training has
become an ongoing process. The HMIS has become functional for the routine monitoring of PHC
services in first-level care facilities.
Under SAPP II, the Bank will continue to monitor the continuation and expansion of activities
initiated under the project for the next three years. These will include measures for increasing the
number of female staff in health services delivery and management; continuation of in-service
training and improvements in quality of training; decentralization of management to district level;
and overall progress in further improving quality and access of MCH and preventive services.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was in line with the Governnent's development strategy and the Bank's CAS.
Assistance to the borrower was provided during project preparation through a reasonably good
skill mix of Bank staff and consultants. Risks were appropriately identified and possible remedies
were also suggested. Lessons learnt from previous Bank operations were adequately incorporated
in the project design. However, the scope and targets were overly optimistic. The implementing
agencies' financial management system and training of borrower's staff in application of Bank's
guidelines were not addressed as part of project design as a result of which serious instances of
-15-



financial mismanagement arose. In addition, as noted earlier (Section 4.1) project objectives at
appraisal were not stated clearly or in terms easy to measure. There was no agreement on an
appropriate set of indicators to be used for measuring the achievement of outcome, and there was
a lack of clarity about the links in terms of outcome achievement and measurement between this
project and SAPP.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was done through regular supervision missions, pre-mission monitoring through
consultants, problem-solving visits by appropriate Bank staff or consultants, and informal regular
contact with the implementing agencies. During May 1997, the project was restructured and
scaled down. In association with implementing agencies, the challenges facing implementation
were documented in every mission along with options to resolve them as "agreed critical actions,"
and then followed up regularly. A review of "agreed critical actions" since restructuring in May
1997 showed that a total of 94 critical actions were identified jointly by the Bank missions and the
implementing agencies. Out of these, 55 (59%) were fully resolved; 24 (26%) were partially
resolved; 12 (13%) remained unresolved; and three were addressed under SAPP II. In the latter
half of project life, regular project monitoring was supported by two independent reviews to
assess quality of the civil works and of the in-service training program, and a facility survey was
conducted to assess improvements over time. With the introduction of OP/BP 10.02 the Bank
began to pay more attention to the fiduciary aspects of projects, and the Bank's Financial
Management Specialists spent additional supervision time with the provinces on improving their
financial management systems during supervision. As a result of this increased attention, two
end-use audits and a special review were undertaken by consultants on behalf of the Bank. The
latter review revealed serious deficiencies in the financial management systems of DoH
Balochistan and Punjab.
The project was at risk for about one and a half years prior to MTR. Therefore, staff mix and skill
mix of post MTR supervision missions were made more elaborate. This change in supervision
strategy helped in improving project performance.
Weakness in supervision. A QAG rapid supervision assessment in August 1997 rated the Bank's
supervision performance as marginally satisfactory. The supervision by the donors lacked
coordination, and KfW, and DFID were supervising their own inputs independently. The project's
legal covenants were regularly tracked.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance, based on the restructured project, is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The planning section of the provincial DoHs took a lead role in project preparation, and most
technical areas were adequately developed to meet pre-appraisal mission requirements. Draft
PC-Is (Planning Commission Formn Number 1, the main project planning document for internal
- 16 -



government approval) were ready at the time of Negotiations. The project coordination units
were made functional before the project became effective.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The governments' implementation efforts resulted in improved gender balance, rising
contraceptive prevalence, increased enrollment for ante-natal care, successful pilot testing of TB
control and of decentralization of health management to the district level, modest increase in the
proportion of fully immunized children against six vaccine preventable diseases of childhood,
institutionalizing HMIS and creating a new culture of continuing education. Developing
partnership with NGOs was a unique experience in the health sector. These accomplishments
were achieved despite weaknesses in fiduciary areas, weak coordination and lack of clear roles
within the DoHs especially in Punjab, limited expertise in handling complex projects, and
governance issues (frequent staff transfers and political interference).
Procurement. In Balochistan no significant problems were encountered. However, it took more
than two years to reach an agreement with the DoH in Punjab to enforce implementation of IDA
procedures for procurement through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Financial management and Auditing. The financial management aspects of the project were
not adequately addressed at appraisal which resulted in serious problems in financial management
as the project progressed. Although the DoH Punjab developed a software package and recruited
a qualified firm for managing the project funds, the financial management system remained weak
in Balochistan. Submission of Audits was often delayed in meeting IDA audit requirements. The
Auditor General of Pakistan had raised some audit observations on the expenditure incurred under
the federal component during the years 1996/97 and 1997/98. These observations are yet to be
resolved by Government. In 1997, a special review performed by an independent consulting firm
from Pakistan on behalf of the Bank, noted there were serious financial irregularities including
apparent fraud. Government were requested to take corrective measures and establish an effective
financial management system for the project. Subsequently, the ineligible expenditures were
refunded with some delay. The FY 1998/99 audit reports were due on March 31, 2000 and are still
pending. The Punjab and Federal Special Accounts still have an outstanding balance that needs to
be refunded to the Bank.
Legal covenants. The project was in default for two legal covenants: (i) delegation of powers to
District Health Officers to hire, transfer and promote staff up to Basic Pay Scale 12 in their
district; and (ii) a review of the administrative and staffing implications of the reorganization of
the communicable disease control programs and implementation of agreed measures. The first had
repercussions across sectors and hence it was not possible to effect this change for the health
sector alone. In the latter case, there was opposition from paramedic unions.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The perfornance of the Special Projects Unit of the DoH Punjab and the TB control section of
the DoH Balochistan, is rated as highly satisfactory for their work in pilot-testing decentralization
of health management to the district level and TB control using DOTS strategy respectively. The
- 17-



work done by the PHDC, Balochistan, in mobilizing parents and school teachers to attract local
girls for pre-service LHV training is another example of highly satisfactory outcome. The
performance of PHDCs and DHDCs in terns of quality of training is rated marginally satisfactory.
The overall performance of the Punjab PCU in procurement of goods and of the Balochistan PCU
in dealing with financial management is also rated marginally satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance, based on the restructured project, is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Capacity building
* An assessment needs to be made of the capacity of the implementing agencies at the time of
appraisal in financial management and procurement. Capacity building in these areas should
become part of project design. Further, safeguards need to be built-in in the form of end-use
audit reviews.
* The project's performance indicators need to be agreed at appraisal, and costs must be built
into the project for establishing benchmark values and then tracking these indicators through
independent surveys.
Technical aspects.
i A well-targeted conununications campaign and incentives package proved successful in
securing the enrollment of local young women in the paramedical schools in Balochistan and
can serve as a model for what might be done elsewhere.
3 Capacity building for social mobilization needs to proceed early on in the project for demand
creation and increased utilization.
Operational aspects.
i  Umbrella projects spanning more than one province need to be replaced with province specific
projects to reduce complexity in terms of geographical spread, the number of implementing
agencies, and to embed projects better in the macro framework of provinces.
*  The project had a 10 year cycle and more than six years implementation period. It is desirable
to keep 3-4 years of implementation period which is more likely to equate with the maximum
duration of original champions being in the same job. Further, it is difficult to prescribe a
precise 6-7 year road map and associated project inputs.
Administrative aspects.
* For multi-donor funded projects with parallel financing arrangements, a well-defined
coordination mechanism among donors, including joint monitoring, needs to be defined at
appraisal stage.
* An umbrella PC- I for the main components of the project should be approved at Executive
Committee of National Economic Council (ECNEC) level. Smaller PC-i s then can be
developed for different components/sub-components and approved and subsequently revised
at departmental level.
* Guarantees need to be obtained through the legal documents for continuity of key managerial
- 18 -



and technical staff directly involved in project management.
* A clause needs to be added in the Project Agreement that could minimize political interference
in future projects. One option to minimize transfers of essential project staff could be that the
borrower/implementing agencies, and the Bank should agree on criteria for selection of
essential project staff or that they should have a minimum time in grade.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower/implementing agencies evaluation is given in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The project was cofinanced by the DFID and KfW. DFID has carried out its own evaluation at
the end of the project which is generally based on the assessment of decentralization reform
introduced at MTR, and the progress made in the HMIS in the second half of the project. The
report is given in Annex 9.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  ActuaULatest Estimate
A. Improvements in the health status of the  Increase MCH service use by 20% in  A survey of 128 PHC facilities, conducted in
population within the provinces of Punjab and Balochistan and by 15% in the Punjab.  April 1999, showed improvements between
Balochistan and Islamabad Capital Territory                                   1993 and 1998 in several areas: - increase
(ICT) with special emphasis on increasing                                     in number of antenatal visits by 52% in
the availability and quality of matemal health                                Punjab and 120% in Balochistan;
services, including family planning.                                          - increase in number of fp clients by 67% in
Punjab and 126% in Balochistan; and
- significant increase in supply of drugs and
contraceptives.
The HMIS data showed that DoH
Balochistan provided antenatal care to 11.6%
of rural pregnant women in 1996, which
increased to 19.8% in 1998. The number of
supervised deliveries also increased from
3.8% to 6.73% in the same period. DoH
Punjab provided antenatal care to 11 % of
rural pregnant women in 1996, which
increased to 23.6% in 1999. The proportion
of deliveries supervised by trained birth
attendant increased from 5.7% to 11%
during this period in Punjab.
Increase immunization coverage for <1 yr. to The proportion of fully immunized children
65% in Balochistan and 80% in Punjab by   (FIC) in the age group of 12-23 months
the end of project.                   increased from 38.6% in 1990/91 to 51 % in
1996/97 in Punjab, and from 17.8% to 59%
in Balochistan during the same period.
(PIHS).
Increase Tetanus toxoid (TT) coverage to    Coverage in Balochistan increased from 6%
50% in Balochistan and 60% in Punjab by   in 1990/91 to 27% in 1997/98, and in Punjab
the end of project.                   from 23% to 66% during the same period.
(source: DoH service statistics)
Reduce IMR by 30% by year five.        IMR fell from 105 per thousand live births in
1996/97 to 89 in 1998/99 in Punjab, and
from 108 per thousand live births in 1996/97
to 86 in 1998/99 in Balochistan. The
reduction in IMR is in the range of 15-20%
(source: PIHS 1998/99).
Reduce female paramedical vacancies by    The achievements exceeded the target.
20% by year five.                      Balochistan increased the stock of
paramedics from 243 in 1993 to 641 in 1999,
and Punjab from 2730 to 3462 durng the
same period.
Make available full family planning services in 83% of PHC facilities with female health staff
all health facilities by year four.   in Balochistan, and 82% in Punjab were
providing fp services in 1999.
The CPR in rural populabon increased from
14% in 1994/95 to 22% in 1996/97 in
Punjab, and 1.9% to 4% in Balochistan
during the same period (source: Pak
Contraceptive Prevalence Survey 1994/95
and PFFPS 1996/97).
- 20 -



Increase knowledge of contraception by 50%  Currently married women who knew at least
by year five.                         one method of contraceptio increased from
80% in 1994195 to 94% in 1996/97 in Punjab
and from 36% to 78% in Balochistan in the
same period (source: PDHS 1990191 and
PFFPS 1996/97).
Deliver 75% of the total training program by  The achievements exceeded the target.
year five.                             However, improvement in quality of training is
desirable.
B. Improvements on quality of care and  Reduce preventable diseases by 20 per  Scientific evidence is not available to support
integration of prmary health care services,   100,000 population especially among  this. However, improvements were noted.
particularly for communicable disease control children over five years.      * There are major gains towards polio
eradication.
* Surveillance activities for malaria control
have markedly improved in last three years.
The number of patients screened through
blood test almost doubled, whereas the
number of confirmed malaria cases declined
by two and a half times in Balochistan and by
about five Umes in Punjab. The proportion of
falciparum malaria also came down from
37% to 23% in Balochitan and from 48% to
18.6% in Punjab.
* TB control on DOTS strategy was
introduced on a pilot basis in Balochistan.
The sputum conversion rate was 89%
whereas the cure rate was 82%. This led to a
change in TB management policy in Pakistan
from a conventional clinic based approach to
DOTS strategy.
C. Institutional capacity building    Improve planning management capacity by  The target was met except at two distridcts in
establishing Health Development Center at  Punjab province. 38 health development
different levels and evolution of a in-service  centers were set-up and fully operational.
training system for service provider and  However, there was shortage of staff in these
manager.                               units.
Expand planning cells in the DoH.     The planning cells were equipped and are
managed by trained professionals.
Expand monitoning/evaluation system with   The HMIS reporting rate by the first level
related information system support.   Care health facilities increased from 11% in
1994 to 95% in Punjab against a target of
95%, and 56% in Balochistan against a
target of 90% in 1999. The use of data for
planning purposes is taking root.
Establish a functioning, on-going     The training targets for management have
management training system.            been satisfactorily met. A functioning system
is in place in both Punjab and Balochistan
province.
Decentralization of staff and financial  Major preparations for decentralizing the
authorities.                           health system to the district level have been
satisfactorily completed. The
decentralization to district level is highly likely
to continue, as it is a priority for the new
government.
Strengthen supervisory capacities.    The supervisory capabilities were
strengthened by staff training in management
and supervision and by provision of 552
motors cycles and 237 operational vehicles.
- 21 -



OutpUt Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. of Health Development Centers/training  Construct 42 centers/training schools by the  Target has been fully met.
schools constructed                    end of project.
No. of Health Development Centers/training  Make 42 centers/training schools functional  40 (95%) centers/training schools have been
schools made functional               at the end of project.                  made functional.
In-service training in technical areas  Train 3,210 persons in Balochistan; 12,844  Balochistan met 84% of the target ( 2.710
persons in Punjab                      persons trained)
Punjab met 99% of the target (11,249
persons were trained).
In-service training in management areas  Train 1280 persons in Balochistan; 1568  Balochistan exceeded the target. More than
persons in Punjab                     twice the of number persons (2,744) were
trained and re-trained.
Punjab exceeded the target by 14% (1,790
persons were trained).
% of Basic Health Units (BHUs) and Rural  In Balochistan - Increase from 11% to 90%   In Balochistan, 56% of PHC facilities were in
Health Centers (RHCs) i.e. Primary Health  of PHC facilities in compliance with use of   compliance with use of HMIS.
Care facilities in compliance for reporting    HMIS.
through Health Management Information    In Punjab - Increase from 11% to 95% of   In Punjab, the agreed target was fully
System (HMIS)                          PHC facilities in compliance with use of  achieved.
HMIS.
% of MCH centers, BHUs and RHCs with   Increase from 67% to 90% of MCH centres,  In Balochistan, 86% of the centers have
female health staff                    BHUs and RHCs with female health staff.   female staff.
In Punjab, 92% of the centers have female
staff.
% of PHC facilities having female staff and  Increase the number of female staff and  83% of PHC facilities have female health
providing family planning services     provide FP services in 70% of PHCs in  staff and providing fp services in
Balochistan and 90% of PHCs in Punjab.    Balochistan, and 82% in Punjab.
No. of health system research studies  Conduct 60 health system studies by the end 34 studies were completed and results
awarded by the MoH                     of project.                            disseminated.
No. of NGO projects completed by end of   Complete five NGO projects in Balochistan,  Four NGO projects in Balochistan and seven
program                               and nine in Punjab by the end of program.   in Punjab were either completed or will be
completed by December 2000.
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost b Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million     US$ million
1. Provincial Health Services
Punjab                                              42.15            19.95            47
Balochistan                                         10.55            9.94             94
2. Staff Development
Punjab                                              18.00            11.24            62
Balochistan                                          8.50             7.76            91
3. Management and Organizational Development
Punjab                                               7.75            4.57             59
Balochistan                                          3.45             3.27            95
4. Federal Component                                    4.40            1.87            543
Total Baseline Cost                                    94.80           58.60
Physical Contingencies                                 7.30
Price Contingencies                                   11.90
Total Project Costs              114.00            58.60
Total Financing Required               114.00           58.60
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Ap raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB        Mthod          N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB         Othee
1. Works                     0.00         13.60         0.00         3.30         16.90
(0.00)       (12.20)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (12.20)
2. Goods                     11.30         1.70         1.40        24.00         38.40
(7.40)       (1.50)       (1.00)       (0.00)        (9.90)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          8.40         10.60        19.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (8.20)       (0.00)        (8.20)
4. Contraceptives and        0.00          0.00        11.50         8.70         20.20
Medicines supplies          (0.00)        (0.00)      (11.10)       (0.00)       (11.10)
5. Salaries and Operating    0.00          0.00        12.30         6,00         18.30
Costs                       (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.40)       (0.00)        (5.40)
6. Project Coordination      0.00          0.00         1.20         0.00          1.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.20)       (0.00)        (1.20)
Total                     11.30         15.30        34.80        52.60        114.00
(7.40)      (13.70)      (26.90)        (0.00)      (48.00)
-23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB  :hr                      N.B.F.       Total Cost
NCB       Other'
1. Works                         0.00           9.45           0.00           2.22           11.67
(0.00)         (7.77)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (7.77)
2. Goods                         7.16           2.29           1.10           13.78          24.33
(4.38)         (1.60)         (0.74)         (0.00)         (6.72)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           3.06           9.21           12.27
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.51)         (0.00)         (2.51)
4. Contraceptives and            0.42           0.00           0.00           0.68            1.10
Medicines supplies              (0.25)          (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.25)
5. Salaries and Operating        0.00           0.00           5.17           0.94            6.11
Costs                           (0.00)          (0.00)         (3.19)         (0.00)         (3.19)
6. Project Coordination          0.00           0.00           1.84            1.28           3.12
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.84)         (0.00)         (1.84)
Total                         7.58           11.74          11.17          28.11          58.60
(4.63)         (9.37)         (8.28)         (0.00)         (22.28)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
t Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 24 -



Project financing by Category of Expenditure (in US$ million equivalent)
Category of       a    al sallpate E4rst3-i ,f  pr.J
F xpegditure  .    A  GovtiKIW  ,U_  IDA 1   Ei
Civil Works          12.2   2.0  2.2  0.5  7.8  1.7  2.2  0.1  64%   85%  100%  20%
Equipment, Furniture,
and Vehicles,
Contraceptives and
Supplies             21.0  16.7  180.  2.9   7.0  4.4  13.2  0.8  33%   26%   73%  28%
Training, Educ.
Materials,
Fellowships           8.2  0.3   1.7  8.8  2.5  0.5  0.6  7.9  30%  167%   35%  90%
Salaries, and
Operating Costs       5.4  12.6  0.3      -  3.2   1.9  1.0  0.7  59%   15%  333%          -
Project Coordination    1.2   -    -    -  1.8        -    -   1.3 150%        -     -    -
Total Financing      48.0  31.6  22.2  12.2  22.3  8.5  17.0  10.8  46%   27%   77%  89%
Note: Actual/Latest Estimates were based on the data from ICS dated 05/07/00.
- 25 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal or for the ICR.
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(q) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Spccialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Ycar    Count       Specialty                        Progrcss          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Preparation                   6   Mission Leader, Health Advisor,
05/13/1991 - 06/05/1991            Implementation Specialist,
Health Planner,
Management Specialist,
Economist
Preparation                   7   Mission Leader, Health Advisor,
10/12/1991 - 10/31/1991            Implementation Specialist,
Health Planner,
Management Specialist,
Economist, MCH Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Pre-appraisal                 8   Mission Leader, Health
01/29/1992 - 02/24/1992            Advisor, Implementation
Specialist, Health Planner,
Management Specialist,
Economist, MCH Specialist
Appraisal                    12   Mission Leader, Health Advisor,
05/21/1992 - 06/10/1992            2 Implementation Specialist,
Health Planner,
2 Management Specialist,
2 Economist, Public Health
Specialist, Training Specialist,
MCH Specialist
Supervision
05/4/1993 - 05/24/1993         6  Mission Leader, Project               S                  S
(Was rated in Nos. "1 "            Adviser, Health Planner,
Management Specialist,
Implementation Specialist,
Financial Analyst
01/14/1994 - 02/13/1994        5  2 Public Health Specialist,           S                 S
Architect, Disbursement Officer,
Health Planner/Economist
10/08/1994 - 10/30/1994       5  Mission Leader, Public Health          S                 S
Specialist, Architect,
Disbursement Officer, Health
Planner/Economist
08/19/1995 - 09/13/1995        6  Mission Leader, Architect,            S                 S
Health Planner/Economist, 2
Public Health Specialist,
Disbursement Officer
03/29/1996 - 04/21/1996        3  Mission Leader, Architect, HRD        U                 U
Specialist
- 27 -



11/17/1996 - 12/05/96          3  Mission Leader, Health                 U                 S
Planner/Economist, Public
Health Specialist
05/02/1997 - 06/11/1997        3  Health Planner, Mission Leader,        S                 S
Health Specialist
11/17/1997 - 12/17/1997        9  Health Specialist, Population          S                 S
Specialist, Social Sector
Economist, Reproductive Health,
Health and Population Advisor,
Procurement specialist,
Procurement analyst,
Disbursement Officer, Architect
04/14/1998 - 05/19/1998        9  Mission Leader, Architect,             S                 S
Management Specialist, Health
Planner, Human Resource
Specialist, Population Specialist,
Public Health, Financial Auditor,
Health Economist
11/23/1998 - 12/17/1998        5  Mission Leader, Public Health          S                 S
Specialist, Human Resource
Specialist, MIS Specialist,
Architect
05/03/1999 - 05/28/1999        5  Mission Leader, Public Health,         S                  S
MIS Specialist, Reproductive/
Population Specialist,
Preventive Program Officer
11/23/1998 - 12/17/1998        9  Mission Leader, Architect,             S                 S
Management Specialist, Health
Planner, Human Resource
Specialist, Population Specialist,
Public Health, Financial Auditor,
Health Economist
05/03/1999 - 05/28/1999        9  Mission Leader, Architect,             S                 S
Management Specialist, Health
Planner, Human Resource
Specialist, Population Specialist,
Public Health, Financial Auditor,
Health Economist
ICR
11/18/1999 - 12/13/1999       5   Mission Leader, Public                 S                 S
Health, MIS Specialist,
Population/Reproductive
Specialist, Preventive
Program Officer
- 28 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,0()
Identification/Preparation               45.7                       160.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                    70.3                       246.2
Supervision                             193.8                       339.1
ICR                                      26.4                        60.8
Total                                   336.2                       806.2
Source: Project Details at a Glance as of 05/09/00
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
?Sector Policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Institutional Development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
M Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                            O H *SUOM O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
? Lending                                            OHS OS   *U  OHU
I Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
F  Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
? Preparation                                        OHS OS  *  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
N Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  OU  O HU
OI Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Department of Health, Punjab. Presentation and Brieffor ICR Mission, November 1999.
2. Faisel, Arjumand and Kamal, Imtiaz. Institutional assessment ofprovincial and divisional
health development centers, Balochistan. July 1998.
3. Faisel, Arjumand and Rehman Abdur. Assessment of Health Services Development over the
project life in Balochistan. April 1999.
4. Faisel, Arumand; Qadir, Ghulam; Mahmood, Sana; and Ahmad, Saeed. Assessment of Health
Services Development over the project life in Punjab. April 1999.
5. Faisel, Arjumand and Rehman Abdur. Assessment of accomplishments under Second Family
Health Project in Balochistan. December 1999.
6. Faisel, Arjumand and Qadir, Ghulam. Assessment of accomplishments under Second Family
Health Project in Punjab. December 1999.
7. IDA. Staff Appraisal Report, Second Family Health Project, Pakistan. 1993.
8. IDA. Restructuring/Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, May 2 - 24, 1997.
9. IDA. ICR Mission Report, November 18 - December 13, 1999.
10. Kamal, Imtiaz and Faisel, Arjumand. Institutional assessment ofprovincial and divisional
health development centers, Punjab. July 1998.
1 1. Vendal, Pervaiz. Quality Review of Civil Works, 1998.
12. Anjam Asim Shahid and CO. Final Ex-post Review and End-use Checks Report for Family
Health II Project, 1998.
13. Anjam Asim Shahid and CO. Final Ex-post Review and End-use Checks Reportfor Family
Health H Project, November 1999.
14. HMIS Reports for 1996/99. Provincial Departments of Health, Punjab and Balochistan.
15. Federal Bureau of Statistics, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad. Pakistan Integrated
Household Survey, Round 2: 1996-97.
16. National Institute of Population Studies, Islamabad and Centre for Population Studies,
London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, December 1998. Pakistan Fertility and Family
planning Survey, 1996/97.
- 32 -



17. National Institute of Population Studies, Islamabad, July 1992. Pakistan Demographic and
Health Survey, 1990/91.
18. Population Council, Islamabad, September 1995. Pakistan contraceptive Prevalence Survey
1994/95.
19. Population Census Organization, Statistics Division, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad.
Population and housing Census, 1998: Census Bulletin 8 & 10.
20. Pakistan Medical Research Council, Islamabad. Utilization of Basic Rural Health Services in
Pakistan, 1993.
21. IDA. Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 2464-PAK, April 1993.
22. IDA. Project Agreement, Credit Number 2464-PAK, April 1993.
23. DFID. Final Review of The DFID Funded Components of The Second Family Health
Project, Punjab. Western Asia Department of DFID, November 1999.
24. DFID. Final Review of The DFID Funded Components of The Second Family Health
Project, Balochistan: Western Asia Department of DFID, November 1999.
25. EPOS. Second Family health Project, quarterly Progress Report, January - March 2000.
26. Malmud, Asif. Ex-post Review of Civil Works, Second Family Health Project, August 1997.
27. Ilyas, Muhammad. Ex-post Review of Goods, Second Family Health Project, August 1997.
28. Sidat Hyder Morshad Associates (Pvt. Limited. Family Health Project II, Quetta,
Balochistan: Special Review of Accounts (July 1999 to December 1997), May 1997.
29. Sidat Hyder Morshad Associates (Pvt. Limited. Family Health Project II, Lahore, Punjab:
Special Review of Accounts (July 1999 to December 1997), May 1997.
30. Federal Bureau of Statistics, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad. Pakistan Integrated
Household Survey, : 1998/99.
31. Khan, Amanullah. Study on Persistent Low Coverage of Tetanus Toxoid Among Pregnant
Women in Punjab. May 1999.
- 33 -



Annex 8. Borrower/Implementing Agencies' Contribution to the ICR
FAMILY HEALTH II PROJECT
EVALUATION REPORT BY DoH BALOCHISTAN
Introduction
The Project was started during the year 1993-94, then fine turned through mid-term review in
May 1997 (with a revised PC- I at a cost of Rs.786.219 million) and closed on June 30, 1999. The
project components included: Health Service Development; Staff Development; and Management
Development.
Health Services Development Component
Under this component civil works were completed in 22 Districts comprising construction of
residences for female paramedics at PHC facilities, and up-gradation of dispensaries for provision
of MCH services.
Special focus was given to MCH and family planning services. The provision of family planning
services were very low at the start of the project in 1994, however, 134,000 clients benefited in
1997 and 238,000 in 1999. MCH services were further strengthened through posting of 40 Lady
Health Visitors at PHC facilities and recruitment of 18 Assistant Inspectress Health Services as
supervisors. After closing of the project, these posts have been taken on to the regular budget of
the Department of Health effective July 1, 1999. Village based MCH services were also improved
by providing delivery Kits to village based TBAs and linking the TBAs with village based Lady
Health Workers and PHC facilities.
Referral system for emergency obstetric care (EOC) was strengthened through KfW funding by
providing laboratory and other diagnostic equipment at Divisional, District and Tehsil Hospital
and major RHC's. 22 Ambulances were also provided to the District Hospital and Rural Health
Centres.
Reproductive Health services were started in Quetta District as a Pilot with collaboration of
Gynaecology and Obstetrics Department of Sandman Hospital, Quetta. After the closing of the
project, implementation of this pilot is planned for fimding though the development budget of the
Department of health (DoH).
TB Control through DOTS strategy was also piloted in Mustung District. WHO mission reviewed
the Program in early 1999. The results were promising and WHO recommended Program
expansion. After gaining experience, the TB control though DOTS strategy has now been
extended to 13 districts of the province using regular DoH health budget.
A Public Health Laboratory was constructed at Quetta. It could not be made functional during the
- 34 -



project life because of late completion of the building. The Department of Health plans to equip
and furnish it through its own budget to make it fully functional. Some equipment and a vehicle
were provided to Institute of Public Health Quetta which has started postgraduate training in
Public Health.
The KfW grant assisted two NGOs (Planning Association of Pakistan - FPAP, and Lady Dufferin
Hospital) in improving and expanding family planning and matermity services including EOC. The
output included: renovation of Lady Dufferin Hospital building, upgradation of Nursing Schools
of Lady Dufferin Hospital, establishment of a small maternity hospital in a remote district of the
province, and establishment of a medium size maternity hospital at Quetta which is nearing
completion.
Staff Development Component
One Provincial Health Development Centre (PIIDC) and a network of six Divisional health
Development Centres DHDCs along with hostels were constructed, equipped and furnished and
made fully functional to work in four areas: management development, staff development, health
and nutrition education, and systems research and monitoring & evaluation. The two schools for
training of female paramedics were also strengthened by providing residences for the tutors,
hostel facilities for trainees, addition of labour suites and additional teaching staff. The staff
recruited during the project life has been transferred to the regular budget of the Department of
Health effective July 1, 1999. The performance of PHDC and DHDCs was unsatisfactory in latter
function.
The project during its life conducted 311 in-service training courses for improving technical and
management skills of the staff of the Department of Health including skill development in areas of
district health management and health management information system. In total 5,451 health
persons were trained and re-trained, 95 job descriptions were prepared, and 43 curricula for
different types of training were developed and implemented.
The project substantially contributed in increasing enrollment of local female in paramedics
training schools. The total number of pre-service training schools have increased, increasing the
training capacity by 100%. By mid 1999, almost 100% of the entrants to the Public Health
Schools were local female in contrast to one local girl in 1993.
Management Development Component
The health management information system (HMIS) was strengthened through staff training,
provision of hardware and software and HMIS reporting instruments. The reporting rate from
outpatient services improved from 45% in 1996 to 63% in 1998 against a target of 90% by the
end of the project. However, the system lacks capacity for data analysis and there is little evidence
that data is being used for informed decision making.
The Health system-strengthening component finded by DFID strengthened the institutional
capacity of health delivery system, in terms of organizational change and operational skill
- 35 -



development for decentralizing health services to the district level. The project worked towards
this through the following outputs.
1. Strengthened district management capacity based on community participation.
2. Effective and integrated training of health human resources.
3. Improved district planning and information systems.
4. Increased gender sensitivity to imbalances in health needs and staffing.
5. Development of counterpart institutions to support in-service training, management
development and health systems research into the needs of the health department.
6. Development of an appropriate structure for a decentralized health services.
Constraints/weakness
1. Base line data was not available to compare the impact of inputs.
2. Project Implementation Unit Staff was not trained in financial and procurement
procedures of donor agencies as such great delays were observed during the project
life.
3. Frequent transfers of trained staff of the project had advise effects on project
management and in achieving planned targets.
Lessons Learnt
1. Pl- 1 was not consulted properly by the concerned project staff; therefore some of
priority areas remained unattended.
2. Community involvement was not given due attention.
Failures
1. Decentralization process could not be implemented for want of approval by the
Govenmment, during the project life. As such the District Health Management Team
concept through implemented but remained un-successful.
2. Research work remained untouched due to lack of coordination between the Project
Coordination Unit and counter part institutions.
Suggestions.
I. Initiation of a base line survey before launching future projects.
2. PC-1 be prepared by those technical persons working in the area where project is to be
implemented.
3. Research studies may be the part of the project and PC-1 should have flexibility to
re-fix priorities in the light of studies.
4. Training of all Project staff to learn financial management, and procurement and
inventory procedures of the donor agencies to overcome financial irregularities.
5. Reimbursement claims procedures may be made simple and short.
- 36 -



FAMILY HEALTH II PROJECT
EVALUATION REPORT BY THE PUNJAB HEALTH DEPARTMENT
Summary of achievements
Despite many weaknesses, the DoH would like to rate overall implementation as satisfactory.
Main achievements during the project life were as follows:
*     After Mid-term Review (MTR) in May 1997, the major factors which contributed to
accelerated implementation were effective delegation of administrative and financial authority to
the project team and capacity building through technical assistance
A new culture of continuing education has been created
*     At the beginning of the project, provision of family planning (fp) services was not a
priority for the Department of Health (DoH). Now, DoH is the lead agency in providing fp
services
*     GoPunjab enacted an Autonomy Bill in November 1998 and made significant progress in
developing decentralized district health systems in four districts. The preparations are under way
to extend the decentralized systems to another six districts
LDoH tested implementation of TB Control through DOTS Strategy in one tehsil. The
reported cure rate of 59% during 10 months implementation was not very encouraging because of
governance issues. However, GoPunjab is committed to pursue DOTS strategy and allocated Rs
52.0 million in FY00 outside the project
The project contributed in improving staff mix at PHC and first referral facilities by
recruiting 1,862 female paramedics and general duty doctors (male and female)
*      &An independent quality review in 1999 showed increased utilization of PHC services as
reflected by substantial increase in the number of clients for antenatal and family planning services,
and improved supply of drugs and contraceptives (although still insufficient).
*     The efforts in institutionalizing HMIS were satisfactory
Project performance-monitoring indicators. There was reasonable progress. The salient
features are: 29 out of 31 Health Development Centers are functional; 98% completion of good
quality civil works; and 92% of PHC facilities, other than dispensaries, have a female health staff
against target of 90% by the end of the project life. Clients for antenatal care and family planning
have increased substantially over the life of the project. The revised targets for continuing
education were almost 99% met.
- 37 -



Lessons learnt
The project had important goals with ambitious interventions in several areas, which
required substantial time for bringing in necessary changes. Hence impact as per design could not
be fully achieved.
Three donors were funding the project and signed separate legal agreements with
GoPunjab and had different implementation arrangements. This led to complex arrangement for
project implementation. Nearly two years were spent in negotiations with other two donors after
initiating the project with the World Bank, resulting in loss of valuable implementation time.
There was a need for one single agreement with all partners.
*     Donor cooperation and cohesion was lacking and there was a need to establish a formal
coordinating mechanism.
*     The project was more complex than the capacity available in the DoH in 1993.
*     In first three years, there was lack of clarity about the powers of the Project Director and
was the main cause of delay in implementing the project. PC1 or some other document should
have specified the powers to avoid confusion.
*     The DoH could not benefit, as desired, from the short-term TA due to want of an effective
mechanism to review and respond to the recommendations.
The PC 1 had a rigid design and did not permit flexibility. Umbrella PCI identifying main
components should have been made for approval by the ECNEC, followed by smaller PC I s for
various components for approval at the departnental level.
*     There was a need to give training in fiduciary areas to all concerned staff, as early as
possible, preferably before the start of the project.
Coordination between various departments of the GoPunjab was not very efficient and
was a another major hurdle in causing delays.
*     The project has been instrumental in establishing a team of public health practitioners with
experience in project management, which could manage projects more effectively in future.
The opinion about hiring consultants for deficient areas has started receiving wider
acceptance among senior staff of GoPunjab.
The difficulties faced by the project in relation to the procurement activities have led to the
streamlining of government's procedures for all donor-funded projects.
Several weaknesses of the health system were identified over the project life, which
initiated thinking for new interventions such as decentralization of health services to the district
- 38 -



level.
Detailed assessment
Project costs and expenditure. The project cost, at MTR, was reduced from US$ 82 million to
US$ 53.4 million because of implementation constraints in earlier period of project. The activities
which were dropped or added (without changing the project objectives and its components) were
of four types: these were i) activities for which resources outside the project were available (like
contraceptives for USD 5.2 million); ii) activities like training and deployment of village health
workers as Government had already started the program on a large scale; iii) activities which
could not be implemented because of slow implementation prior to MTR like incremental staff
salaries as new staff for delivery of health services was not recruited in the first three years
because of recruitment bans; and iv) introduction of new activities like decentralization and TB
control on DOTS strategy. In early 1999, US$ 3.0 million of IDA Credit was further canceled,
because of exchange rate savings and lack of commnitment by two Municipal Corporations to bear
operational costs for the expand MCH services.
The expenditure by April 30, 2000 was Pak Rupees 1.275 million (IDA Pak Rupees 487.5 million,
DFID Pak Rupees 271.4 million, KFW Pak Rupees 270.5 million and GOPunjab Pak Rupees
245.5 million).
Implementation status of Health Services Development Component
Inputs for PHC services. The MCH services were improved through supply of equipment like
2,300 IUD insertion tables and kits, 2,000 MCH kits, 758 baby resuscitation kits and weighing
scales, and in-service training of lady health visitors (LHVs) in areas of MCH, family planning and
health & nutrition education. Skills of 2,600 practicing TBAs were also enhanced along with
supply of 10,500 disposable delivery kits and 1,000 kits for training of TBAs. DoH made limited
efforts in linking trained TBAs with Lady Health Workers and PHC facilities.
Performance of PHC services. The Bank reviewed randomly selected 100 PHC facilities in
March 1999. The review showed improvements in several areas: increased utilization of services
as reflected by substantial increase in the number of clients for antenatal care and family planning
services; and improved supply of drugs and contraceptives. HMIS also supported findings of the
sample survey: the number of visits by the clients for family planning services were 207,000 in
1996 and 566,000 in 1998 (increase by about 173% in three years); and the number of antenatal
clients rose from 319,000 in 1996 to 393,000 in 1998. In spite of all these improvements, there is
still un-utilized capacity at PHC facilities.
Upgrading referral services. KiW made a major contribution to refurbish the district and tehsil
hospitals by providing Blood Bank equipment for 60 hospitals, 100 ultrasounds and 100
incubators. Some equipment has already been distributed and the remaining is planned to reach
end users up to December 2000. Data is not available on the quality of services provided at tehsil
and district hospitals. However, DoH has recruited 44 specialists for diseases of women and
children, and anesthesia at district and tehsil hospitals. Since 1998, DoH has been providing 24
- 39 -



hour emergency services at all hospitals which are free of cost for first 24 hours.
Improvement in staff mix and skill mix. The overall availability of female health staff has
improved. Since 1994, DoH recruited 1,862 staff comprising LHVs, male medical officers,
women medical officers, and specialists for tehsil and district hospitals. However, PHC facilities in
hard to reach areas continue to face shortage of female workers (252 posts of LHVs are vacant).
Partnership with NGOs. The funding for NGOs through KfW grant is more than DM 6.0
million. The project supported five NGOs for establishing or expanding MCH and maternity
services in cities of Lahore, Gujranwala and Gujar Khan. All planned facilities are expected to be
fully functional by December 2000.
Support to local government The DoH could not implement IDA financed Urban MCH
activities in Municipal Corporations of Sargodha and Bahawalpur including inputs to improve
sanitation because of lack of commitment by these municipalities to provide land for construction
and incremental resources for operation. DFID contributed in expanding MCH services of the
Lahore metropolitan Corporation by strengthening 30 MCH centres and by establishing a health
promotion centre along with support for incremental operating costs. The continuation of these
interventions is unlikely because of lack of commitment by the Corporation to support incremental
operating costs.
Health and nutrition education. The DoH made limited contributions against the planned inputs
because of capacity issue. The main inputs were in areas of in-service training of PHC staff, and
mass media campaign to support EPI and polio eradication.
TB control on DOTS strategy. The project implemented TB control on pilot basis in one tehsil
of Sheikhupura district. The pilot was not well managed because of governance issues. A total of
264 cases were detected in 10 months (126 sputum positive) of which 171 were under treatment.
The cure rate after eight month treatment was 59%.
Malaria control program. The project provided transport for out-reach workers and supervisory
staff (242 motor cycles and 2,595 bicycles), and limited antimalarial drugs. Improvements have
been observed in detection and treatment of malaria cases - the conclusion is based on the results
of an independent review of 100 PHC facilities undertaken in March 1999. The program data also
supported this inference as surveillance system has considerably improved during 1997-98 with a
drop in slide positivity rate from 5.8% in 1994 to 0.84% in 1998. The falciparum ratio has also
dropped by 50% in last five years. However, these averages should be interpreted with caution
because as many as 280 sanctioned posts of technical staff are vacant and there is shortage of
appropriate anti-malarial drugs. The resistance of falciparum malaria to chloroquine is also
spreading.
Immunization. The project in 1999/00, using KfW grant, arranged supply of 86 million
disposable syringes, 10 refrigerated vans, eight cold rooms, 300 ice liner refrigerators, 100 deep
freezers, 702 vaccine storage refrigerators, 80 generators, 800 cold boxes, 2,500 vaccine carriers,
9,000 flasks, 2,500 dial/VP thermometers and eight repair kits (some items are in the procurement
- 40 -



pipeline costing approximately DM 12.641 million). The EPI program was also provided 1,258
bicycles for outreach work, 252 motor cycles and 106 vehicles for supervision. The cold chain
and supervisory vehicles should remain reliable for next ten years.
The coverage of fully immunized children (FIC) did not appreciably increase in the last five years.
The coverage of FIC <lyr as per monitoring reports of DoH, was 66%,47%, 76%, 73% and
72% during 1994 to 1998 while protection of pregnant women with two or more doses of TT
was 37%, 32%, 54%, 64% and 52% in the corresponding period. The PIHS survey 1996/97 gave
a coverage of FIC of <2yrs at 51%, which is much lower than the DoH monitoring system. Low
levels of coverage by PIHS is more likely due to exclusion of FIC which could not produce
immunization card. The DOH implemented a mopping operation during July - October, 1999 and
expected to have achieved much higher coverage of FIC of 1 year The main reason for low
coverage in the past was erratic supply of vaccines and syringes.
Staff Development Component
Provincial Health Development Centre (PHDC) and District Health Development Centres.
The DoH established one PHDC and 30 DHDCs. These institutions supported DoH in areas of
management development, human resource development, health and nutrition education, and
monitoring and evaluation. The last function, however, was not fully developed. These centers
prepared 20 in-service training curricula and met 99% of in-service training target as agreed at
MTR. There are 28 functional DHDC housed in their own buildings with an attached hostel. A
number of posts are vacant in these centers. Two DHDCs are non functional for of lack staff
(Rajanpur and Attock). Further, transfer of trained staff from the centers and their replacement
with untrained staff remained a major concern.
An independent review of this component revealed that although project targets were nearly met
but the impact of training in enhancing the skills of the staff was less than desirable. The specific
areas of improvement included filling of vacant posts of technical staff and that PHDC would
continue to review the curricula for creating a balance between theory and hands-on training.
Expansion of pre-service training for female paramedics. The physical facilities of already
functioning two Public Health Nursing Schools (PHNSs) at Lahore and Multan were substantially
improved. In 1998, DoH commissioned two new PHNSs in temporary premises. The permanent
school buildings and attached hostels are now complete and occupied. The newly commissioned
PHNSs have only 9 tutors against the requirement of 30, based on the standards set by the
Pakistan Nursing Council . The DoH plans to fully furnish and equip these schools and the 31
PHDC/DHDC by December 2000 using KfW grant. The enrollment of LHVs has increased from
370 in 1994 to 520 in 1999.
Technical assistance (TA) and fellowship. The project provided TA, both long term and short
term, to support institutional capacity building. Focused group discussion revealed that long term
consultants were very helpful for institutional strengthening. However, there were mixed feelings
on the usefulness of short term TA. The project also supported 15 long term and --- short term
fellowships in various disciplines of public health. All fellows returned back and are working in the
- 41 -



DoH.
Management Development Component
Decentralization of health services. The DoH made initial efforts for gradual transfer of powers
to the lower formations within the existing system (to meet a legal covenant), but it did not work
very well. GoPunjab, therefore, enacted an Autonomy Bill in November 1998 to decentralize
Health Systems to the district level and the referral hospitals. Major preparatory work for
decentralizing health systems to the district level in four districts is nearly complete. DoH has
submitted a proposal for approval of the government, outlining the administrative and financial
changes required at the district level and appointment of chief Executive Officers in ten districts.
The project trained 1,790 health staff in supervisory and management techniques (many were
exposed more than once).
Development of Health Management Information System (HMIS). The inputs provided were
hardware and software, reporting instruments, and training of 3,028 persons. The reporting rate
by the health facilities on HMIS instruments, covering outpatient services only, changed from
11% in 1994 to 91% in 1999 against a target of 95%. There is substantial improvement in use of
HMIS data. The issues relate to modification of software to window base.
- 42 -



Annex 9. Cofinanciers' Contributions to the ICR
REVIEW OF THE DFID FUNDED COMPONENT
FAMILY HEALTH II PROJECT: NOVEMBER, 1999
BALOCHISTAN PROVINCE
1. The project had been successful in developing the systems needed for operationalising
decentralized district health system including rational budgeting and planning mechanisms,
supervisory system, and in achieving the notification of District Health Management Teams
(DHMTs) in six trial districts. But the Purpose of the project will only be partially achieved due
to lack of political will to implement decentralization and the persistent problem of governance
mainly political interference which has affected progress towards sustainability of successful
interventions.
2. Some evidence suggests that the DHMT continue to operate and have introduced the concept
of a team approach to problem solving resulting in addressing some minor problems, nevertheless
the overall quality of services had by and large been unaffected by the project.
3. Despite the establishment of a district planning system, the production of guidelines and
manuals and training, virtually no change in health service delivery can be attributed to this work.
This is because throughout the Project life, the health department was unable to set budgets, even
for the trial districts, which were consistent with the decentralized systems being developed. The
budgets allocated to the districts remained inequitable and insufficient thus they detracted from
any improvements which may have been made in the areas of systems development and
managerial capacity building.
4. Externally generated technocratic solutions, especially in the form of the establishment of new
institutions such as the PHDC/DHDC network, are not appropriate due to a lack of Government
ownership. This problem has been further exacerbated by the persistent transfer of staff in the
PHDC/DHDC which has diluted the considerable technical assistance provided to the network
and brings into question the sustainability of the work particularly in the PHDC/DHDC. It was
encouraging that agreement has now been reached on the role of the PHDC with clear leadership
coming from the Directorate of Health. It is hoped that this will be accompanied by the allocation
of a training budget for the PHDC and DHDCs so that they are able to full fill this role and
improve the quality of the training.
5. The project has supported the development and implementation of HMIS in the province. The
reporting rate for outpatient service has improved from 45% in 1996 to 63% in 1998, however,
the system continues to lack capacity for data analysis and there is little evidence that data is being
used for decision making.
6. The project shows how committed staff can take forward sensitive and difficult issues, such as
gender and participation even in a difficult socio political context. The project has been innovative
- 43 -



in its approach to community participation especially the aspects of health education in schools. It
is hoped that lessons can be learnt from this and other related initiatives that can then be used by
the DoH in other districts. However, in the absence of an enabling institutional environment
committed to managerial, financial, and administrative decentralization, it remains difficult to
integrate lessons learnt from successful pilot initiatives into the overall delivery system.
7. The number of local female entrants to paramedic training shows a marked improvement as a
result of the project. The total number of pre-service training schools have increased, increasing
the training capacity by 100%. By mid 1999, almost 100% of the entrants to the Public Health
School in Quetta and Turbat were local females.
8. It is acknowledged that the project under the technical leadership of the Nuffield Institute has
perhaps continued with donor led initiatives without giving due consideration to the context
especially the political environment prevailing in Balochistan.
9. Nevertheless, the project has been fortunate to have had effective and consistent management
which is clearly demonstrated by the good working relationships with the DoH and other key
stakeholders and had been successful in achieving project outputs.
10. The team came to the conclusion that although the project had done well in achieving
its outputs this was due to good local management and a flexible relationship with the DoH but
that in the current environment many aspects were unlikely to be sustainable. Therefore, the team
concluded that under the current political environment in the Province, it will not be possible to
recommend further investment by DFID to build upon the work carried out by the project.
11. The Balochistan Health Systems Strengthening (HSS) component provides an interesting
contrast to the Punjab HSS experience. Whilst the project outputs have generally been delivered
effectively where possible there has been little impact on the purpose. This again illustrates the
importance of the environment external to the project.
12. The major impediment in project being able to achieve its objective has been persistent
political interference over the project life. The political interference affected all aspects of the
project from appointment at PHDC and DHDC's selection of staff for Technical Cooperation
Training (TCT) awards and appointment in key management positions at the provincial and
district level. The staff transfers meant that project interventions lacked continuity for successful
implementation of reforms to affect health services delivery in any significant way. The project
and SAP policy dialogues have continually highlighted the issue and its implications for systems
development in the province, however, with little success. The continued political interference
results from a weak political government that is unlikely to take reforms of any significant nature
forward.
- 44 -



RECOMMENDATIONS
1. The team concluded that under the current political environment in the Province, it will not be
possible to recommend further investment by DFID to build upon the work carried out by the
project.
2. The PHDC and DHDCs are allocated a training budget so that they are able to full fill their role
of providing in-service training and improve the quality of the training.
3. The budgets allocated to the districts remain inequitable, insufficient and so rigid that they
undermined any possible improvements which may have been made in the areas of systems
development and managerial capacity building. Although it is understood that the decision to
decentralize powers was out of the control of the DoH, it is felt that more could be done in
providing rational budgets to the districts. Therefore it is recommended that the DoH builds on
this work and allocates rational budgets to all districts.
4. While subject matter in the school education program should continue to be demand-driven,
additional information on contextually-needed health issues should also be included. Efforts
should be made to identify ways of systematizing and continuing this initiative after the project
ends, including identification of a social development counterpart in government to take it
forward.
5. The outcomes of community participation activities in the pilot districts should be gathered
together in a single document to ensure that this knowledge is incorporated into future practice.
In particular, the issue of how to take this to scale should be addressed. Along with any other
salient features, the positive response by communities in pilot district to presentations on gender
issues in cornmunity participation and mobilization approaches should be analyzed.
6. Before the project ends, a suitably qualified gender trainer with experience in health delivery
system be identified and hired to provide training for DHMT and to train nominated trainers from
the five pilot districts on gender and development. The latter training in particular should also
include facilitation skills.
PUNJAB PROVINCE
Health Systems Strengthening
1. The term was pleased to see the conducive atmosphere to change in the Punjab and was
encouraged by the vision and plans for reform of the health system. The project inputs have added
significant value to this process, in particular through the inputs in the last year that have adapted
to the changed policy environment with DoH. The detailed work undertaken by the project team
in the four pilot districts for decentralization has had a clear influence on the development of the
current policy and the staff training undertaken has provided a good basis for carrying forward the
reform. It was felt, therefore, that the Purpose of the Punjab Health System Strengthening (PHSS)
component would be largely achieved but only partially as a direct result of the project.
- 45 -



2. The process of policy change towards an appropriate model for decentralizing health services in
Punjab provides interesting lessons for the future. The process was clearly iterative and its final
implementation was driven by a high level bureaucratic and political will rather than through
technocratic project solutions. However, the work of the project was important in the process.
Particularly important in the latter years was the flexibility and responsiveness of project inputs to
the changing policy environment.
3. The reform process is still in an early stage of implementation and although the institutional
capacity of DoH to implement organizational change has markedly increased over the project life
capacity remains weak. However, the senior management team of DoH have a clear vision of
Health Sector Reform and are moulding the organization to deliver it. As part of the reform
process, the DoH outlined a new decentralized management vision. It envisaged decentralization
to large provider institutions and also to lower levels within the department at the District level.
The first phase of reforms have been initiated in autonomous hospitals and at the district level in
the form of District Health Government (DHG).
4. The District Health Government concept is based on purchaser provider split of functions and
responsibilities with delegated powers for hire and fire and financial autonomy. The DoH has
enacted a law to make provision for delegated authority and some of the Chief Executives have
been selected. However, steps have been taken towards enhancing capacity of the DoH in
implementing reforms through contracting technical assistance from the private sector and also
from the Project to develop management and financial systems. The Health Sector Reform Unit
(HSRU) which is co-ordinating the reform process has acquired services of consultants. However,
some of the contracted consultants lack appropriate skills to undertake management reforms. The
team reconmnends that HSRU defines the technical assistance required to reform the health
system in order to improve health services and then identified competent consultants to support
the DoH in designing and managing the reforms.
5. Because of the rapid change in the policy reform process the role envisaged for PHDCs and
DHDCs at the start of the project is no longer appropriate. However, the role they are expected
to play in the new health system has not been clarified. As a result the staff in the institutes who
have been trained by the project are not being fully utilized. It is important that the role of the
institutions is clarified and they are then staffed with appropriate skills and the existing staff are
placed in the institution that is best suited to their skills.
6. Gender issues have begun to be addressed particularly at the service delivery level but will
require significant, regular and sustained follow-up efforts to be fully mainstreamed into health
delivery systems at all levels. There has been limited progress in the development of a gender
strategy for the DoH which would seek to encourage an increased representation of women in
strategic management positions.
7. Poverty considerations in service delivery are also beginning to be addressed and will require
the development of contextually-appropriate responses, which in turn will require a sustained
effort in order to be achieved.
- 46 -



8. The District Co-ordinators, despite not being specialists in the field of social development
appear to have both internalized the need for holistic social development (gender, poverty and
community participation) in health care delivery, and have demonstrated an awareness of its
benefits through their evident commitment to preparing the ground for operationalization. The
challenge now is to ensure that this holistic, integrated approach is taken up by other professionals
involved in systems reform, as well.
Metropolitan Corporation of Lahore (MCL)
9. The project has been very successful in achieving the agreed outputs nevertheless, it was felt
that there would only be limited achievement of the Purpose due to the lack of commitment by
the Metropolitan Corporation of Lahore (MCL) to reforming the health system. It is disappointing
that the systems planning work carried out by the MCL staff facilitated by the project is not
perceived as appropriate and may be wasted. Therefore whilst the capacity of the DoH to deliver
more effective services has improved, their capability has not due to the lack of commitment to
the agenda within MCL.
10. One aspect of the project has been the renovation of 30 Reproductive Health (RH) centres,
however, these centres are not providing contraceptives. The provision of a wide range of
contraceptives is a fundamental and essential part of any RH service hence these centres are not
functioning as envisaged by MCL when it was agreed that DFID would upgrade the facilities.
11. The MCL component provides an interesting contrast to the PHSS experience. Whilst the
project outputs have generally been delivered effectively there has been little impact on the
purpose. This again illustrates the importance of the environment external to the partner
institution to a project's output and purpose. This crucial factor is normally placed in the
assumptions column of a logical framework enabling project management to leave it out of their
decision making on implementation. This, as PHSS has shown, seriously reduces the effectiveness
of project input.
Institute of Public Health (IPH)
12. An Institutional review of the IPH took place in November 1997 recommending autonomy
and reorganization before progress would be made in delivering appropriate public health training.
Therefore DFID suspended support until these recommendations were implemented.
13. The IPH was granted autonomy in July 1999 and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
appointed. However, the current plans presented by the CEO do not seem sufficient to actually
make any difference. Therefore, at the request of the DoH DFID will consider the provision of
short term support to the CEO in developing a strategic plan and managing the change process.
14. Although this component has been unsuccessful until now, there is undoubtedly DoH
commitment to radically changing the IPH and making it responsive to the needs of the
department. And as we see from our experience in the project this support is the vital ingredient
- 47 -



for success.
RECOMMENDATIONS
1. The role of the institutions such as PHDC and DHDCs is clarified and they are then staffed
with appropriate skills and the existing staff are placed in the institution that is best suited to their
skills.
2. HSRU defines the technical assistance required to reform the health system in order to improve
health services and then identified competent consultants to support the DoH in designing and
managing the reforms.
3. HRSU identify a competent, committed task manager to co-ordinate the social development
and gender components of health services delivery.
4. The DoH should give serious consideration to the development and implementation of a gender
strategy for management and administrative positions in particular. If desired, technical assistance
could be offered during the remaining period of the project to develop such a strategy and identify
ways to implement it. It is recommended that any such initiative should take as a starting point
existing national policy on gender and employment developed by the Ministry for Women's
Affairs.
5. At the district level, gender, poverty and community participation should form part of an
overall, integrated social development approach to health systems delivery, to be implemented
through partnerships between health care providers and communities.
6. The team expressed support for the new management arrangements in IPH which seek to meet
the overall needs of the health sector particularly IPH's role in the overall framework for health
sector reforn. Therefore, the team will prepare a separate submission to DFID management
which will recommend that a consultant is hired to work with IPH in preparing internal
management structure and a strategic plan of action.
7. The team will prepare a submission to DFID Management that will recommend that a
substantial new package of support for Health Sector reform is prepared to begin in July 2000.
However, to ensure that reform momentum is maintained in the interim period it will also
recommend that parts of the project components which are supporting Punjab health sector
reform should be extended to June 2000. Taking into account the lessons learnt by GoPunjab and
DFID, the team recommends that the extension period is managed by British High Commission
Development Section in Islamabad with a local co-ordinator based in DoH in Lahore.
Conclusions common to both provinces
1. Project management arrangements were unduly complex with involvement from DFID in
London and BHC Development Section Islamabad, the British Council in Islamabad Quetta and
Lahore, and Manchester and Nuffield Institute of Health in Leeds. These management
- 48 -



arrangements limited the responsiveness of the project to ground realities.
2. The lessons of the project allow a number of conclusions to be drawn. The nature of the policy
change process means that it is impossible to prescribe a 5 year road map and associated project
outputs in support. Policy reform is an iterative process, and one that requires clear political
support if it is to be implemented in a meaningful fashion. Project support need to recognize this
reality and be responsive to the current needs of the partner institution: it cannot work to 3-5 year
plans for specific project inputs, or lever an agenda that is not already present. This requires a
flexible approach from donors and a clear link to the Government's own planning and
implementation cycle. Clearly, this flexibility needs to be in the context of a mutually agreed
framework of policy and implementation priorities. Externally generated technocratic solutions,
especially in the form of the establishment of new institutions, are not appropriate to supporting a
reform agenda.
- 49 -



