Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11127-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
JANUARY 25, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 25.0 (June 1992)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
ADB      =   Asian Development Bank
BHU          Basic Health Unit
CDC      =   Communicable Disease Control
C&W      =   Communications and Works
CHW          Community Health Worker
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
DHDC         District Health Development Centre
DHO      =   District Health Officer
DOH      =   Department of Health
FP       =   Family Planning
FY       =   Financial Year
ICT      =   Islamabad Capital Territory
IDA      =   International Development Association
JICA     =   Japan International Cooperation Agency
KfW      =   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LHV          Lady Health Visitor
MCH      =   Maternal and Child Health
MOH      =   Ministry of Health
MPW      =   Ministry of Population Welfare
NFC      =   National Finance Commission
NGO          Non-governmental Organization
NWFP     =   North-West Frontier Province
ODA      =   Overseas Development Administration
PC-1     =   Planning Commission (form) Number 1
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PHC      =   Primary Health Care
PHDC     m   Provincial Health Development Centre
PSAL     =   Public Sector Adjustment Loan
RHC      =   Rural Health Centre
Rs           Rupees
FHII     =   Second Family Health Project
SAP      =   Social Action Program
TBA      =   Traditional Birth Attendant
UNFPA    =   United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF   -   United Nations Children's Fund
USAID    a  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Project and Credit Summary  .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  (i)
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS . . . . . . . . . . .  1
A. Introduction ......... ..                                     1
B. Background ........................ .  2
C. Health and Population Sector Status  . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
D. Sector and Program Issues and Constraints  . . . . . . . . .  4
E. Sector Development Strategy ............... . 12
II.  THE PROJECT ...........  ....  ...  ....  ...   . 14
A. Provincial Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
B. Project Objectives, Summary Description and Policy Actions . 16
C. Detailed Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
D. Environmental Considerations     .......... . 35
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . 35
A. Provincial Health Program Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
B. Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
C. Project Management and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . 44
D. Procurement  .........             ..........  ...  .   . 48
E. Disbursements, Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
ANNEXES:
1 - Basic Health Data, National and Provincial  . . . . . . . . . . 58
2  -   Health  Staff    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  76
3 - Program and Project Matrices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
4 - Project Description - Health Services Development . . . . . . . 87
5 - Project Description - Health Staff and Management Development . 98
6 - Public Health Admin., Project Organization and Implementation  108
7 - Summary Cost Tables .                                           117
8 - Procurement Procedures .                                        145
9 - Disbursement Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
10  -   Su-nary  Implementation  Chart  and  Accounts  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   147
11 - Project Supervision Plan ................. . 152
12  -   Selected  Documents  Available  on  Project  File    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   154
CHARTS
1 -   Organization  of  MOH  and  the  Provincial  DOHs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   157
2  -   Project  Organization    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   158
MAP:    Second Family Health Project (IBRD Reference No. 24097)
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Pakistan in May/June 1992.
It comprised 13 members representing IDA, the German Xrcditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, the British Oversees
Dcvelopent Administration and the Save the Children Fund. The IDA toom comprised Mecsrs. C. Walker
(Mission Loedor), K. Abram (Iplcmcntation Spocialist, Consultant), Bashir ul Haq (Health Advisor, Resident
Hission, Pakistan), giraj ul 8cq (Hoalth Plannor, Consultant), J. Herm (Management Specialist, Consultant),
M. bKhtar (Economist),  nd V. Vells (Public Health Specialist).  In addition, Mesare./Mesdames A. Ng'weno
(Economist) and S. Sigurdsoon (Implementation Specialist) from the World Bank Group, and F. Ambursloy
(Management Specialist), S. French (Training Specialist) and B. Stanton (MCH Spocialist), Consultants,
contributed substantially during project preparation. Project processing was supervised by Massrs. P.
InemaA (Director, SA3) and R. Cuca (Manager, SA3PH). The Peer Reviewers for the project were
Mosers./MHsdaces 0. Pannenborg (Principal Population and Public Health Specialist, AF6PH), A. Tinker (Health
Specialist, PERS) and M. Young (Public Health Specialist, PHR8).



ISLAMC REPU LIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND FAhlLY BEALTH PROJECT
Prolect And Credit Summary
borrower:            Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:       Province of Balochistan
Province of the Punjab
Federal Ministry of Health
Amount:              SDR 35.0 million (US$48.0 million equivalent)
Terns:               Standard, with 35 years maturity
Project
Description:        The project has the main objective of improving the health
status of the population of the two provinces through
assisting with the implementation of the provincial health
development  programs.    These  programs  consist  of  the
investments to be made during the Eighth Five-Year
Development Plan, plus a number of agreed policy measures.
The programs are consistent with the Social Action Program
(SAP) under preparation by the Government. The SAP aims at
improving the performance of social services through
ensuring better implementation of ongoing activities, proper
budgeting of recurrent expenditures and proper planning of
development  expenditures  according  to  implementation
capacity.  The health programs of the two provinces will
increase the emphasis on (a) primary health, and (b)
preventive and promotive services. The project will finance
key  parts  of  the  programs  concentrating  on:    (a)
strengthening primary health services from the village to
the district level, focusing on improved maternal and child
health services; (b) staff development, focusing on improved
staff capabilities and performance and increasing the number
of female paramedical staff; and (c) management and
organizational development, focusing on improved management
capabilities. There are also limited federal inputs. The
project will finance:   construction  and  expansion  of
training facilities and limited health facility upgrading;
furniture, equipment and transport; contraceptives; training
costs; technical assistance; and incremental recurrent costs
including medicines. It will be implemented by the federal
and provincial governments, local government and cooperating
NGOs with domestic and international technical support. The
project will be implemented on the basis of annual agreed
sub-programs which, inter alia, will seek to ensure



(ii)
appropriate balance between recurrent and investment
financing and would allow for adjustments in work plans
based on previous years accomplishments.
Benefits and Risks: The project will improve the health status of the population
generally but with a special emphasis on high risk and
under-privileged sections of the community. They will have
improved access to services of a higher quality and of
increased effectiveness. Women will benefit, particularly
through improved maternal health services, as will children.
For example, about 20X of pregnant women will receive some
prenatal care and the number of supervised deliveries will
double. The government will benefit from the institutional
development components, which will also pave the way for
more ambitious objectives to be met through subsequent
investments.  The main risk is the limited implementation
capacity of the provincial Health Departments; this risk is
addressed   through   having   a   substantial   management
strengthening component, simplifying the project design, and
providing   for  technical   assistance   in  key  areas.
Strengthening public health systems and particularly
focusing on women's health problems including family
planning may not receive sufficient priority from the
present health system; this risk is minimized through
fostering strong comitment to the project from senior
officials concerned during project preparation, the project
reinforcing and financing key primary and maternal/child
care aspects of the government's health policy, increasing
the involvement of women in service delivery, and through
the  involvement  of  public  health  orientated  local
institutions.     Finally,  the  governments'  procedures
(including the PC-ls) may be too rigid to accommodate fully
the flexibility offered by the programmatic project
elements; this risk is addressed through including the
maximum flexibility in government project documents and
procedures, and introducing annual project reviews.



(iii)
Project Cost Estimates
(US$ Millions)
Local    Foreign    Total
Strengthening Health Services:                          25.3      27.4       52.7
Staff Development:                                      20.9       5.6       26.5
Management and Organizational Development:               5.6       5.6       11.2
Federal Component:                                       2.4       2.0        4.4
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                          54.2       40.6       94.8
Physical Contingencies                         3.9        3.4        7.3
Price Contingencies                            6.2        5.7       11.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           64.3       49.7      114.0
Financing Plan
(US$ Millions)
Gov't   IDA    Germany   UK       Total
Civil Works                                   2.0    12.2      2.2      0.5    16.9
Equipment                                     5.1      1.0    17.5      1.4    25.0
Furniture                                     0.3      1.4     0.1      -       1.8
Vehicles                                      4.0      7.5     0.0      0.1    11.6
Technical Assistance                          -        2.0     0.9      6.4     9.3
Training, Educ. Materials, Fellowships        0.3      6.2     0.8      2.4     9.7
Contraceptives                                -        6.7     -        -       6.7
Salaries                                      6.6      5.4     0.3      0.0    12.3
Medicines, Supplies                           7.3      4.4     0.4      1.4    13.5
Operating Costs                               6.0      -       -        0.0     6.0
Project Coordination                          -        1.2     -        -       1.2
TOTAL FINANCING                     31.6    48.0    22.2    12.2   114.0
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
------------- IDA Fiscal Years -------------
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Annual             3.5     6.0      8.4    10.0    11.7      8.4
Cumulative         3.5     9.5    17.9    27.9    39.6    48.0



l



ISLANIC_REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HtALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND. ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS
A. Intoctign
1.    The Government of Pakistan has requested the Association to help finance
the Health Development Programs for the provinces of the Punjab and Balochistan.
This will be a follow up project to the Family Health Project benefiting the
provinces of Sindh and North-West Frontier (NWFP).1/  The programs for the
Punjab and Balochistan are the health components of the Eighth Five-Year
Development Plan (1993/94 to 1997/98). The main objective of these programs is
to improve the health status of the population in general but with a special
emphasis on high risk and underprivileged sections of the community such as the
poor, women and children. The strategy will include a series of investments and
measures to: (a) make health services more effective, efficient, affordable and
acceptable; (b) give greater priority to disease prevention, health promotion and
maternal and child health (MCH); (c) establish a better balance between urban and
rural services; and (d) improve community participation.
2.    The programs of the two provinces are fully in accordance with the Social
Action Program (SAP) being proposed by the government to ensure better
implementation of ongoing activities in the social sectors (education, health,
population and rural water supply and sanitation), to ensure proper budgeting of
recurrent expenditures for these sectors and to ensure appropriate development
expenditures consistent with implementation capacity and with financing available
in ongoing operations.
3.  The proposed project will support the activities of the government programs
by assisting with: (a) a shift of emphasis towards primary health care and away
from secondary and tertiary care; and (b) a shift of emphasis away from curative
care and towards preventive and promotive  services.   Within these broad
objectives the project will support the key areas of: (a) enhancing the provision
of maternal and child care; and (b) facilitating changes particularly through
strengthened training and management.
4.    The five year health development program of the two provinces is estimated
to cost US$520 million dollars equivalent. The proposed project will finance
US$114 million dollars equivalent including parallel financing from the British
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) and the German Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW).
1' Pakistan mily Health Project. Credit 2240-PA, awpproved by the Board an Ha 7, 1991



- 2 -
5.   The proposed project differs from conventional Bank projects in that it has
gone a long way towards adopting a programmatic approach based on sectoral
investments and a policy reform program, while disbursing on a selective part
of the overall program. Although providing a basic implementation schedule,
project implementation will be based on annual government/donor reviews which
will review the previous year's fiscal policy and financial implementation and
agree on fiscal policy and financial implementation for the following year.
B. Background2
6.    Pakistan's demographic and health characteristics are typical of many
developing countries: high fertility, low life expectancy, widespread infectious
and communicable diseases and high maternal and child mortality, coupled with a
young age structure and increasing urbanization.   While some progress in
addressing these problems has been made, health and demographic indicators remain
poor throughout the country.   In Balochistan, the position is particularly
serious while in the Punjab, indicators, although better, are still poor.
Economic and Social Setting
7.   For most of the 1980s, Pakistan's GDP grew at a high 6.5% p. a. in real
terms.   Despite this sustained growth, the economy has shown a number of
structural weaknesses and, in the late 1980s, inappropriate aggregate demand
policies resulted in a financial crisis. In reaction to the crisis, Pakistan has
been implementing a medium-term adjustment program, but with mixed results.
Since the current government took office in 1990, there has been rapid progress
in deregulation and privatization, GDP and export growth has strengthened, and
private sector investment and confidence has increased.   However, financial
balances have remained under pressure; in particular in 1991/92 the fiscal
deficit remained high at about 7% of GDP, while the external current account
deficit increased to US$2.5 billion (5.2% of GNP).  Despite the high fiscal
deficit, weak resource mobilization and competing demands on budgetary resources
from non-development expenditures (e.g. interest and defense expenditures) have
constrained the government's ability to alleviate infrastructure constraints,
improve social conditions and reduce poverty.
8.    Poverty remains widespread in Pakistan with, for example, the poorest 40%
of households spending US$100 per month or less. Poverty is more prevalent in
rural areas than in large cities3/. Socio-cultural barriers to improving health
status, particularly for women and children, are high and include very low female
literacy in rural areas (varying from 2% in Balochistan to 9% in the Punjab), a
largely rural population (about 80% in Balochistan and 65% in the Punjab) often
living in remote villages with poor communications, low status traditionally
2) More dotailed information on the sector is includod in: Pakistan Hoalth and Population Sector
Report, June 28, 1988 (Report No. 7349-PAK) and Health Sector Study xey: Concerns and Solutions, February
21, 1992 (Draft Report No. 10391-PAK).
/  e: Pakistan: A Profile of Poverty, Auust 31, 1990 (Report No. 8848-PAi) and Pakistan: Access of
the Poor to Basic Services in Pakistan, January 17, 1992 (Report No. 9826-PhA).



accorded to women and limitations on the movement of females outside the
household (especially strict in Balochistan).
C. Health and Po2ulation Sector Status
PoRmlation4/
9.    Pakistan's population of almost 120 million makes it the ninth largest
country in the world. The current population growth rate is estimated to be 3.1X
per annum, which is among the highest in Asia. This rate is the result of a
slow, steady decline in mortality and of little change in fertility. If this
rate of growth continues, the population will double in the next 23 years; much
of this growth is now unavoidable.
10.   Fertility and Family Planning.  The total fertility rate is estimated to
be at least 5.8 births per woman, which is again among the highest in Asia, and
the crude birth rate is about 42 per thousand population (1990).  Universal
marriage, low contraceptive use, and declining breastfeeding, contribute to
maintaining high fertility.  There is no evidence of a sustained start to a
general fertility decline despite significant unmet demand for family planning
services. Abortion is illegal in Pakistan except to save the life of the mother;
little is known about the extent of illegal abortion. The shortcomings of past
government population efforts, which operated in a hostile social environment,
include: (a) frequent changes in administration and organization; (b) a family
planning supply orientation with weak demand creation; (c) inadequate evaluation;
(d) unrealistic target setting leading to low staff morale; (e) shifting
political commitment; and (f) insufficient access to quality family planning
services.
Health and Nutrition
11.   The crude death rate is around 12 per thousand (1990) having fallen over
40X in the past 25 years. Expectation of life at birth has improved slowly and
reached 55 years for females and 56 years for males in 1990. Infant mortality
is high and was estimated at 103 per thousand for 1990, again showing improvement
over the last 20 years (149 per thousand in 1965), and reaching over 200 per
thousand  in Balochistan.    Perinatal  deaths  are  mainly  due  to delivery
complications, poor maternal health and tetanus; post-neonatal deaths are most
commonly due to diarrhea linked problems, malnutrition and communicable diseases
(see Annex 1, Table 4).
12.   Maternal and Child Health (NCh.   The South Asian pattern of higher
mortality of women persists. Maternal mortality continues to be particularly
high (estimated to be around 600 per 100,000 live births in 1980, with recent
survey estimates for small areas ranging from 400 to 1,700 per 100,000). Causes
are complex and include the interaction of excessive/early/late and frequent
childbearing, delivery complications and post-delivery infections. The situation
See 5    Pakistan - Rapid Population Growth in Pakistan, Concerns and Consequences, March 17, 1989
(Report No. 7522-PAX) for a detailed discussion of population related issues.



- 4 -
faced by women is characterized by high levels of anemia and malnutrition; little
or no prenatal care; unsupervised home deliveries; no post-partum care; late, if
any, transfer to higher levels of health care, and severe socio-cultural
constraints.   The overall result is high maternal and perinatal mortality,
especially in Balochistan.
13.   Child mortality and morbidity are dominated by infectious diseases.
Malaria and malnutrition are important contributory factors (see Annex 1, Table
3). The immunization program has had some success. Gastrointestinal infections
are the most important morbidity cause in children; about one-third of children
under five years are estimated to suffer a diarrhea episode during the previous
month.   Use of oral rehydration salts has increased to about 46X of child
diarrhoea cases (1991).
14.   Nutrition5/.  Despite general availability of food, malnutrition is a
major problem particularly for children and pregnant/lactating women. There has
been little improvement during the past decade. Fifty-one percent of children
under-5 are malnourished (low weight for age), 421 show stunting (low height for
age) and 651 suffer from anemia, while 34% of pregnant/lactating women are
underweight for height and 451 are anemic6/. Low birth weights are common (25%
of all births). Only some 30% of children in Balochistan are not malnourished.
Mal-distribution of food between regions, income groups and among family members
contribute to malnutrition, as does poor infant feeding practices and inadequate
or delayed introduction of supplementary food. Iron deficiency is widespread;
vitamin A deficiency is believed to be a serious problem; and iodine deficiency
disorders are prevalent in northern Pakistan.
D. Sector and Proaram Issues and Constraints
Program and Policy Develo DMnt
15.   Health.  Traditionally, resources and priority were given to hospital,
medical school and curative care development while primary and preventive
services were neglected.  A greater focus on basic (rural) health services,
especially infrastructure, developed in the mid-1980s; about 95% of Union
Council7/ areas now have a health facility rising to near 100% in the Punjab.
Allocations for preventive programs have increased from very low levels but the
priority given to preventive services, outreach and health education remains
limited.   Health manpower policy has typically focused on doctors while
development of nursing and paramedical cadres, especially for female staff, has
lagged behind.
16.   Health policy has evolved largely through the five year planning process.
The Seventh Plan (1988-93) gives priority to basic health services, especially
For further discussion, *oo Chapter 2 in op cit World Bank, 1992 (Report No. 10391-PAK).
A/ National nutrition Survey 1985-87, Pekistan National Institute of Health, 1988.
/ The mallost local goverrnnt unit, whicb covcrc a population of 10-20,000.



primary care quality, the immunization program, increased community involvement,
nutrition, staff development and management improvement. A new health policy,
which emphasized the importance of meeting the health needs of the poor and
giving priority to developing an effective primary care system, was published in
May 19908/. It focussed on decentralization of the health administration, the
introduction of community level workers, a major expansion of female paramedical
and nursing staff, encouragement for the private health sector, and improved
financing of the health sector. Drafts of the Eighth Plan (1993-98) emphasize
consolidation of these strategies with an increased focus on MCH.   As a major
initiative for the social sectors, which includes primary health and population
as key areas, the government is preparing a Social Action Programme (SAP)9/,
designed to remove policy barriers and to improve project and program
implementation. The content of the Eighth Plan and the SAP confirm government
statements that no substantial changes in primary health care policy are likely.
17.   Service development has not kept pace with policy and, despite some
successes, important parts of recent primary health care initiatives remain
largely unimplemented. This is partly due to the continuation of a system with
a strong curative focus and which is resistant to change, coupled with
operational difficulties such as management problems and staffing inadequacies.
The implementation of major initiatives will now be through the SAP and the
Eighth Plan. Programs will focus on improving the functioning of the existing
extensive network of rural health facilities through expanded staff pre- and in-
service training, equipment and transport upgrading, improved referral services,
especially for high risk mothers and critically ill children, and introducing
community level workers to strengthen rural outreach. Other key areas include
improved slum primary health services, enhanced management and financing, and
encouragement for the private sector.
18.  fPogiltion.   Population policy has been notable for its changes in
direction.  Between 1965 and 1973 the program relied basically on the use of
traditional  midwives   (daA)   to  motivate   the  population,   distribute
contraceptives, and refer clients to clinics for IUD insertion and sterilization.
Between 1973 and 1977 a Motivation System utilizing well trained couples for
motivation replaced the 9&U. The program was practically non-existent between
1977 and 1980, when it was transferred from the Ministry of Health and Social
Affairs to the Ministry of Planning and Development with an infrastructure
completely separated from health. In 1990, the Ministry of Population Welfare
(MPW) was created to be responsible for population matters. MPW has its own
clinics and service delivery system which are largely independent of government
health facilities. The approach is multi-sectoral. Core programs include family
planning service delivery, including sterilization services, population
information, clinical and non-clinical staff training, contraceptive and supplies
logistics, while supporting programs include those with other government
departments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and the contraceptive social
marketing program. Ambitious demographic targets have been set but not met.
/ National Health Policy. Ministry of Health, GoverrAent of Pakistan, 1900.
V Social Action Progrme, Plining Cission, GovenrrAnt of Pakistan, April 1992.



-6-
Government health facilities do not generally offer family planning services10'
despite government policy being explicit, since at least 1985, that all
government health facilities should offer such services. The 1990 health policy,
the SAP and the Eighth Plan reinforce the importance of rectifying this omission.
During 1991, the government took steps to revitalize the population program.
These included: (a) increased political support publicly expressed,,/; and (b)
approval of an "accelerated program' which aims to expand service delivery and
improve efficiency by providing family planning services through health
facilities; expanding the number of fixed and mobile sterilization units;
enhancing and better targeting population education programs; strengthening field
supervision; and enhancing community involvement.
19.   Since 1980, basic population policy has been largely unchanged.   The
current multi-sectoral approach is the one most likely to be effective. However,
as for health policy, the implementation of population policy has not matched the
plans. Contraceptive use remains very low and, although there has been some
improvement, little priority is still given to the program by most politicians
and administrators.
20.   Nutrition.   Nutrition policy has been fragmentary, implementation has
received low priority and it has commonly been equated only with supplementary
feeding. Subsidies on selected foods have not been targeted on poor households.
Federal institutional capacity to address nutrition problems has grown over the
past six years, but provincial capacity remains very weak.  The 1990 health
policy proposed to: introduce applied nutrition into general education, employ
nutrition specialists in the public health system, integrate nutrition into
maternal and child health care, and target food subsidies. The draft Eighth Plan
and SAP reinforce this approach. The major programs planned are in nutrition
policy development, micronutrient deficiency control, nutrition surveillance and
supplementary feeding, and mass nutrition education.
Organization and Kanaaeenot
21.   The Public Sector.   The Ministry of Health12/ (MOH) of the federal
government is responsible for health policy making and coordination.
Responsibility for health service provision mainly lies with the provincial
health departments each headed by a Secretary, assisted by a Director General (or
Director) of Health Services (DHS).  District officials report to the DHS and
include the District Health Officer (DHO) and the District Hospital Medical
Superintendent. Officers in charge of lower level government facilities and the
district managers of vertical programs report through the DHO. Further details
are given in Annex 6.  Organization diagrams are given in Charts LA to 1C.
Q The exception is tho reproductive health (i. . sterilization) proarm  which largely functions from
governraet hospitals.
W For x plo, mee the Prine Minister's address to the National Population Conference, July 1991.
U The Ministry's full title iL the Ministry of Health, Special ducation and Social Welfare.



Municipal authorities provide some health services but their nature varies
widely.
22.   There are three main layers in the government health system:  (a) Basic
Health Units (BHU) serving populations of 10-20,000 designed to offer simple
curative and preventive, including maternal and child, care; (b) Rural Health
Centres (RHC) providing more sophisticated curative care, including inpatient
services, and preventive care for 60-100,000 people; and (c) a network of
tehsill31 hospitals (typically one per tehsil with an average 40-60 beds)
backed-up by district hospitals (usually one in each district with an average 150
beds) offering first line referral services, with tertiary care offered by 58
specialized and teaching hospitals located in the larger urban areas. Alongside
this system, there are vertical programs in population (see below), malaria,
tuberculosis, supplementary feeding, immunization, oral rehydration and Ali
training, each with its own management.
23.   Public health management training has yet to be established; management
skills are learnt 'on-the-job' and performance is very variable.   A federal
Health Services Academy for management development has been created but is not
functional. The main needs are at the provincial level and the plans are to
strengthen provincial and district management teams, introduce management
training and improve supervisory practices.
24.   Management constraints include:  (a) centralized decision making separated
from service operational responsibility; (b) complex structures resulting from
not consolidating existing and new schemes; (c) the lack of integration between
the various vertical programs and the basic health services; (d) a generally poor
or wrongly focussed reward system including the virtual absence of incentives for
working in rural facilities; (e) at the village level, very limited outreach from
health facilities, and no organized public sector involvement with communities
or link with the daJ; and (f) no attempt to link budget allocations and
performance or efficiency.
25.   The organization of the population program is different to health; federal
control of the program remains considerable. The program has its own structure
of federal, provincial and district officials reporting to the Secretary of
Population Welfare and is the most separate of the vertical programs. Their own
service delivery system, which covers a much smaller proportion of the country
than the general health system, includes 1250 Family Welfare Centres (FWC), about
135 Reproductive Health Centres (located in government hospitals and offering
contraceptive surgery and other family planning methods) and training
institutions. This separation inevitably leads to inefficiencies in both systems
and there is potential for improved coverage or savings from closer coordination
or by  combining  the  two.    The  population  system  suffers  from  similar
organizational problems as the health system but they are less structural and
V An adinistrative unit below the district l1el, covering sce 300,000 people on average.



more managerial, arising from the unique federal/provincial administrative
arrangements.14/
26.   Effective health services require efficient support systems, especially in
the areas of medicines and supplies, laboratory services, transport and
communications, and equipment maintenance and repair. Such systems have often
been neglected. Provincial procurement of medicines and suDlIles is centralized
with each province having its own central warehouse and distribution system.
Pharmaceutical budgets are insufficient, inappropriate medicines are purchased
and there are frequent shortages. The provincial governments plan to introduce
essential drugs programs. In addition to drug rationalization, this will include
decentralization of logistics, staff training and transport strengthening.
Laboratory services are typically deficient in providing timely results of an
acceptable standard. To alleviate these difficulties, basic laboratory services
at rural health facilities will be established or strengthened, supplies improved
and existing staff trained. Improved transDort and communications is essential
for better emergency handling, service provision and management.  Government
plans include purchase of replacement and additional vehicles and establishing
telephone or radio links where feasible.   Poor maintenance and repair of
eguipment is a major factor in inefficient operation especially of larger health
facilities. The government has a continuing program to establish a network of
repair workshops, increase standardization of equipment and train technicians.
Further details on these initiatives are given in Chapter II.
27.   The Private Sector.  It is unusually large and accounts for about 60X of
total health expenditure. It can be divided into three parts: the modern, the
traditional and the NGO.  The mode   consists principally of general medical
practitioners. There are about 12,000 private practitioners, in addition to some
26,000 government doctors who commonly have their own private practices. Private
hospitals number about 520 in addition to over 300 maternity and nursing homes,
most with less than 50 beds.   There are over 20,000 private clinics and
dispensaries, mostly simple general practitioners offices concentrated in urban
areas. The private sector is particularly small in Balochistan. For background
figures see Annex 1, Tables 7 and 8.  Pakistan has a large pharmaceutical
industry with 64 manufacturers; small chemists shops, estimated at 11,000, are
common, concentrated in urban areas, and supply most medicines. Consumption of
pharmaceuticals is unusually high (2.21 of average household expenditure in
1985).   Pakistan manufactures and exports significant quantities of simple
medical equipment and instruments; medical equipment repair capabilities for more
complex equipment are very limited.
28.   Issues related to the private commercial health sector include:  (a) the
widely accepted need to introduce a feasible regulatory framework to ensure
minimum clinical and ethical standards; (b) how to involve the private sector in
preventive services; (c) as private services are concentrated in urban areas and
serve the better off, how can the government save resources and increase its
concentration on the less privileged; (d) poor links between the private and
/ For further discussion an orsaniatiam and * nagsnmt in the public scator health and population
services, sea chaptor 3 in op cit World Bank, 1982 (Report No. 10351-PAK).



- 9 -
public sectors; and (e) little development of alternative forms of health
financing such as health insurance.151
29.   The traditional comprises dais (i.e. traditional birth attendants) and
traditional healers. Dai are found in rural and urban areas and are thought to
number over 100,000.   They attend the great majority of births and are the
overwhelming first choice for prenatal care by pregnant women (681).  Three
different systems of traditional healing (tibb- i-unani, ayurvedic and homeopathy)
are practiced and, in all, there are about 54,000 healers of which some 15X are
formally qualified.   The government is expanding its well-established {al
training program and plans to increase past modest support for traditional
practitioner training.
30.   Although there are over 8,000 NG0s in Pakistan nearly three-quarters of
which are in urban areas, mostly with a social welfare orientation, they are
often small, locally-oriented and usually are neither financially nor technically
self-sufficient; as many as two-thirds of them are thought to be dormant. In
contrast there are a very few large, effective and well-run local NGOs working
in the health and population sector, mostly based in the Punjab. Overall, NGO
contributions to the health sector are modest and markedly less than that of NGOs
in neighboring countries.
Service Provision
31.   The performance of the primaar  health facilities has not kept pace with
their rapid expansion; service quality and utilization are low due to systemic
problems of manpower, management, finance, staff attitudes and the social setting
(see Annex 1, Table 13). Outreach from facilities is minimal and preventive
services operate as vertical rather than integrated programs. Services for rural
women face these general problems and other issues specific to women, which are
particularly severe in Balochistan, include: (a) the lack of the integration of
the _4i with the health facility; (b) inadequate female staffing hindering access
to care; (c) an ineffective referral system; (d) lack of health education; (e)
limited accessibility of family planning advice and services; and (f) constraints
on female mobility.   There is potential to reduce substantially infant and
maternal mortality during the next five years and the government's program will
focus on improved MCH services, strengthened referral systems, expanded female
paramedical training, increased "I training,le/ experiments with sustainable
community health worker schemes, the development of strong health education
programs (an area which has been very neglected) and emphasis on the nutrition
of pregnant and lactating mothers.
32.   Public hosRita1 outpatient facilities are frequently grossly overloaded,
particularly in the larger hospitals, due to the absence of an effective referral
IV For further discussion on the modern private health sector, see Chapter 4 in op cit World Bank.
1992 (Report No. 10391-PAX).
IV Over 501 of dgj have roceived some basic training. Evaluation of the Training of Traditional
Birth Attandants (2 cf) in Pakistan, Pluming ad Development Division, GoverinAnt of Pakistan, April 1989.



- 10 -
system and the poor quality care offered at lower level facilities. Inpatient
facilities at the teaching hospitals consistently run at around 80-100 occupancy
while district hospitals usually have rates of about 701.   In the smaller
hospitals, especially at the tehsil level, occupancy rates of 501 or less are
common with rates dropping to 25-30X in RHCs.   Communications and emergency
services between the hospitals and lower level facilities are rudimentary,
especially in Balochistan. Management problems throughout the hospital sector
are severe.17/
33.   The large private health sector is growing, especially in urban areas,
Partly driven by the continuing over-supply of medical graduates. The government
has taken some limited steps to encourage the growth of the private sector
including exemptions from duties for imported medical equipment and establishing
credit sources.  There is no effective regulation on the quality and mix of
services offered by private providers. Experiments with financing mechanisms,
including health insurance, are beginning. Until recently, little government
encouragement was given to the development of NGOs in the health sector. During
1991, three provinces and the federal government established 'Health
Foundations', a major aim of which is to stimulate NGO health sector work"1
often through matching grants. None of these Foundations are yet operational.
MNW has promoted population through the private sector by: (a) providing
incentives to general practitioners to offer family planning services; (b)
marketing of condoms through private commercial channels; and (c) establishing
a fund to stimulate NGO population work.
Staffing and Training
34.   Nationally, there is about one doctor for every 2,700 people, one nurse for
every 7.8 hospital beds and one paramedical for every 1,545 people. Background
information on the main health cadres is given in Annex 1 (Tables 5, 6 and 8) and
Annex 2. With the exception of the doctor/population ratio, these ratios are
among the worst in Asia. Most female staff are in short supply, with Balochistan
facing acute problems. The rapid expansion of medical training, moving from 5
to 17 medical schools over the past 20 years, with little increase in nursing and
support staff training has led to very unbalanced staffing and an estimated 6,000
currently under-employed young doctors. Health manpower planning in Pakistan has
been ad hoc and for short time horizons. However, a health manpower plan for all
formally trained staff was completed in August 199019/ and implementation is
beginning. Priority will be given to addressing the chronic shortages of female
paramedical staff who are essential for providing MCH services. The program will
expand paramedical training capacity; improve training quality; strengthen in-
service training; enhance career structures, social status and rural service
17Z/ For further discussion of public sector hospital services, see chapter 5 in op cit World Bank. 1992
(Roport No. 10391-PAh).
W In ame provinces, as a secondary objective, it is proposed that the Foundations provide
concessional loans to the for-profit soctor.
IH-alth Manpower and Training Plan for Pakistan (unpublished), final report, August 1900.



- 11 -
conditions;  and establish manpower planning capacity.   The plans call for
substantial increases in nursing and paramedical cadres (by 1501 to over 1,000X
according to cadre) and a reduction of about 251 in the medical graduate output.
The latter recommendation has yet to be accepted, although the Punjab recently
reduced somewhat the number of medical training places.  Until decisions are
taken, resources will continue to be unnecessarily diverted from higher priority
areas.   These problems are largely a reflection of wider national issues
concerning the training of highly qualified manpower.
Expenditure and Financin4
35.   Since the early 1970s, total health and population public expenditure
(development and recurrent) increased slowly in real terms, peaking at Rs. 2,734
million (constant 1972/73 prices) or 1.08X of GNP in 1987/88, and subsequently
declining to Rs. 2,243 million or 0.73X of GNP in 1991/92 (see Annex 1, Table 9).
Overall, this represented a low 2.8X of total public expenditure in 1991/92.
When supplemented with the proportionately larger private sector expenditure,
estimated in 1987 at Rs. 4,608 million (1972/73 prices) or 2.42 1 of GNP,20/
aggregate expenditure on a per capita basis is broadly similar to comparable
countries,  yet health  indicators  are considerably worse.    Besides  these
inadequacies, public spending on health is inequitably distributed and
inefficient.
36.   In the 1960s and 1970s, very high proportions of public investment in the
health sector were spent on urban hospitals and medical training with less than
101  spent  on  rural  health.    Following  the  start  of  the  rural  health
infrastructure construction program in the mid-1980s, the proportion of the
investment budget spent on rural health, preventive and nutrition programs has
risen markedly to about 55-60X of the total (see Annex 1, Table 10). As the
construction program is completed, this proportion is gradually reducing.
However, as this was not matched by adequate increases in recurrent spending,
this reorientation has had limited impact. The present level of the recurrent
budgets is barely adequate to cover operating costs in all provinces and it is
still biased toward hospitals leaving only 25-40X for rural health (see Annex 1,
Table 11). Salaries take an increasing proportion (at least 551), and as much
as 70X in one province, leaving inadequate amounts for medicines and other
running costs.
37.   The financing of the sector raises a number of issues.  First, additional
resources are needed to address critical health needs and to bring levels of
spending to internationally comparable standards. Total resources in the health
sector seem to have stagnated and under-investment in the public sector
continues. Recent increases in health allocations by the provincial governments
have been off-set by general salary increases as well as diminished federal
government health spending. Second, substantial recurrent budget increases and
compositional shifts in spending are required to finance projected staff
increases as well as to sustain rural health infrastructure and services. Third,
QHoalth Sector in Pakistan: A financing cnd hZpenditure Study, Ministry of Planning *nd Developmnt,
confidential final report, April 1988.



- 12 -
considerable variations in unit costs in similar facilities suggest potential for
substantial gains in expenditure efficiency and effectiveness.   Fourth, the
growing financing needs of the sector require greater private sector
participation and improved cost recovery, especially in public hospitals. The
lack of cost recovery in the public sector is important since only some 4X of
recurrent hospital expenditure is recovered mainly through very low user fees.
The governments intend to raise fees and other charges, especially for tertiary
facilities, but wish to avoid adverse public health consequences. There are no
plans to increase the present nominal fees at primary care facilities. These
policy developments are supported by IDA and are being incorporated in the Social
Action Programe (SAP).
38.   A start has been made recently in addressing some of these crucial issues.
Real per capita expenditure levels for the sector are being protected under an
on-going adjustment program. The SAP is adopting a basic strategy of increasing
resources to the social sectors through improved public expenditure programuing
as well as restructuring inter- and intra-sectoral priorities in financing. The
Eighth Plan, under preparation, will also address these issues.   Tentative
allocations for the nation,l health development program amount to Rs. 25 billion,
a 211 real increase over the Seventh Plan allocation. About half of this amount
is proposed for primary health and preventive programs.
E. Sector DeveloRunt Strate&X
39.   Government Strategy. The government's development strategy for the health
sector can be synthesized from the Seventh Plan, the 1990 health policy, and the
national and provincial preparatory work for the Eighth Plan and the SAP as:
(a) health services becoming more effective, efficient, affordable and
acceptable; (b) greater priority for disease prevention, health promotion and
MCH; (c) better balance between urban and rural services; and (d) improved
comiunity participation.   It will focus on consolidating past investments,
preventive and curative service availability and quality, decentralization,
improving female staff availability, promoting the private sector, improving
support and referral systems, mobilizing additional financial resources, and
encouraging the traditional medical systems. For R02ulation, the government is
retaining the same multi-sectoral strategy but focusing particularly on: (a)
improving the coverage of family planning especially by providing services at all
health outlets; and (b) improving the efficiency of the program.
40.   IDA's Strate&X and Role.   The successful implementation of the social
sector aspects of macroeconomic policy and adjustment operations (see para. 42
below) and of the SAP are key parts of IDA's strategy to address systemic issues
in the social sectors. These are designed to both protect and improve sector
financing and to address chronic issues many of which are cross-sectoral. Within
this framework, the approach is to help the government to implement a coherent,
affordable and technically sound health and population program. The priorities
are to: (a) improve the system's quality; (b) improve the internal efficiency
and cost-effectiveness of the existing system; (c) strengthen the institutional
capability of the system; and (d) provide the required human, management, and
financial resources. The focus will therefore be on improving the utilization



- 13 -
of existing facilities, on the development of the quality and quantity of human
resources, and on the capability of the system to provide and finance the
necessary services. Particular attention will be given to the needs of women,
and the rural and urban poor.   The needs in the sector are enormous but
absorptive constraints are severe. IDA's approach is to address wider sectoral
problems through various adjustment and policy operations typically implemented
over two to three years, while sector investment operations both support this
approach and address more technical and capacity building constraints over a
longer implementation period. This is an early stage of IDA's involvement in the
sector and, given satisfactory performance, follow-up projects could be
anticipated.
41.   External SuDRort.  Foreign assistance for the health and population sector
has been significant but generally less than that received by some nearby
countries.   For population, support has been substantial (652) with USAID
traditionally being the largest financier; UNFPA, ODA and IDA have also made
significant contributions. Foreign assistance has played a much smaller role in
the health program. Again, USAID has usually been the largest single donor with
UNICEF, CIDA, JICA, ADB and IDA assisting substantially2l/.   If the expected
withdrawal from Pakistan in 1993 of the entire USAID program is realized, there
will be a substantial fall in the external support provided to the sector. Donor
coordination operates mainly at a local informal level.
42.   Lessons Learned.   IDA financed one previous health sector project.22/
As it is at a very early stage, there is little implementation experience to draw
upon.  Since the approved and proposed projects are similar, the experience
gained during preparation of the earlier project was drawn upon. A population
project was completed in December 198923/.  It  achieved only limited success
due to: (a) the erosion of political support for the population program; (b) an
under-estimation of the institutional constraints on implementation; and (c)
difficulties arising from the unusual distribution of program responsibilities
between the federal and provincial levels. IDA experience in education projects
and other donor experience in the health sector identified problems of:  (a)
implementation arising from national projects involving multiple provinces; (b)
lack of integration of project management with mainstream government
administration; (c) delayed project start due to difficulties in preparation and
approval of government project documentation; (d) appointment of project staff;
and (e) the need for sustained external technical support. These lessons have
been taken into account in the proposed project, through:  (a) limiting the
numbers of provinces involved; (b) seeking to establish more flexible
/ The major donors to pri-mry health are: ADD (rural health infrastructure, equipment maintenanoc,
health manpower), CIDA (iunization, nuraing, TBA training), ODA (nursing, population, equipment end
mintenance), UNICEF (immisation, oral rehydration, health education, nutrition), USAID (child survival,
population, malaria), and IDA (maternal health, in-service training, management).
W Pakistan FmPily Health Project, Credit 2240-PAZ, with IDA financing of U5845.0 million, approved in
Hay 1991.
I Pakistan Population Project, Credit 1350-PAK, with IDA financing of U8818.0 million, approved in
April 1983. A Project Coqpletion Report (Report No. 9262-PAh) was circulated in January 1991.



- 14 -
implementation mechanisms; (c) posting project coordination staff and obtaining
government project approvals as early as possible; (d) working through the
existing implementation systems; and (e) simplifying project design as far as
possible but consistent with maintaining technical standards.
II. THE PROJECT
A.  Provincial Programs
Programs Setting
43.   The proposed project, the Second Family Health Project (FHII), will support
the health development programs in the provinces of Balochistan and the Punjab.
While both provinces follow the national patterns of sector problems, programs
and issues as discussed in the preceding chapter, there are also significant
differences. In Balochistan (estimated total population 5.7 million in 1990),
health conditions are the worst and the services are the least developed in the
country. This is partly due to the low population density and rugged terrain
combined with  a very  traditional  society.    Female  health  problems  are
particularly acute with maternal and infant mortality estimated to be
exceptionally high. The lack of trained staff, especially of females, is the
main constraint to expanding services.
44. In contrast, the Puniab (estimated total population 60.9 million in 1991)
is the wealthiest, the most densely populated and the most urbanized province,
with the largest and best educated population and the most developed health
services.   Health and social development indicators are around the national
average but are significantly poorer in rural and urban slum areas, and much
remains to be done. Immunization and diarrheal disease control programs have
made significant progress although communicable and infectious diseases continue
to be serious problems. The rural health infrastructure is largely complete but
staffing problems, especially of female paramedical staff, continue. Annex 1
(Tables 1, 2 and 12) present background information on the health sector in
Balochistan and the Punjab.
45.   The provincial governments are preparing strategies designed to improve
basic social services through provincial SAPs for the next two financial years
(1993/94 to 1994/95).  These SAPs will address major issues and constraints,
especially in implementation, in the sectors. Within this framework, sectoral
investment plans, or programs, for the next five financial years (1993/94 to
1997/98), are also being prepared. These programs will be included in the new
Eighth Five-Year Development Plan for each province (see Annex 1, Table 14).
Obiectives and Priorities
46. The main objective of these programs is to improve the health status of the
population in general, but with special emphasis on high risk and underprivileged
sections of the community.   To accomplish this objective, these programs are
adopting measures to improve the provision of basic health services.



- 15 -
47.   Both the provinces and the federal government are committed to improving
basic health services. They have confirmed the commitment made in the Policy
Framework PaRer (PFP) to increase development and recurrent spending in the
health sector, with additional resources to be made available for primary health
and especially maternal and child health care. These commitments are reinforced
in the proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) where the provinces are also
committed to address policy issues in such areas as family planning services, the
distribution of resources within health budgets, and the adoption of user charges
in large hospitals. In the provincial Social Action Programs (SAP), on which
work is continuing, detailed time-bound plans are being developed for the
realization of these commitments over the coming two years as well as for steps
to improve the implementation of ongoing activities. These progressively more
detailed and increasingly provincially orientated measures provide the framework
for the provincial health development programs.
48.   Since  substantial  investments had been made by  the governments  in
developing health infrastructure, a central theme of the provincial health
development orograms is to concentrate on investments which will fully
operationalise the existing facilities (such as staffing, supervision and support
services) rather than on those which will expand the network.   This will be
linked with the required administrative, managerial and technical changes in
order to ensure that these improvements are implemented. Both the Balochistan
and the Punjab provincial programs follow this approach and are similar, albeit
differing in detail.
Programs Description
49.   The Balochistan and the Punjab health programs  include  a range of
expenditures and measures throughout the two health systems. The development
expenditures cover: (a) primary services; (b) secondary and tertiary services;
and (c) service support such as training and management, combined with the
provision of an adequate recurrent budget. These expenditures will be enabled
by key policy reform measures and by strengthened planning, implementation and
monitoring. Within this framework, the Balochistan program focuses on putting
the package of essential basic service elements in place and especially on those
aspects which are most deficient: staffing, especially of female paramedicals,
transport and referral systems, upgrading of the health facility infrastructure
to minimum standards, and improving supervision and management.   The Punjab
program differs somewhat since the essential basic elements for service provision
are generally available; priority areas therefore include improved village
outreach, better availability of supplies, enhanced training, strengthened
management, and controlled hospital spending.
50.   In primary care, the programs will focus on rural women and children.  The
programs aim to increase accs  to health services, strengthen service quality,
and improve service utilization.  The past investment in health facilities will
be better used, with the small numbers of proposed new facilities in the program
being mainly to accommodate rapidly increasing populations. The programs include
a number of inputs in other areas intended to improve rural primary care
including communicable disease control programs.   The provincial programs also



- 16 -
include provision for experiments in primary health care services for slum
dwellers and the subsequent introduction of major urban activities.
51.   In secondary and tertiary care, an important part of the provincial
strategies is to limit additional hospital investment, and to divert the
resources saved towards primary services. Thus, program inputs will include only
limited new hospital construction or expansion; equipment investments largely
confined to those which improve efficiency; and the strengthening of hospital
management. Some of the program inputs included under primary care will also
directly benefit hospitals, especially for support services.
52.   Support areas. To support these service inputs, particularly for primary
care, the programs propose to improve staft capabilities and performance and to
increase the availability of staff (especially female paramedical staff) through
in-service training, establishing new and expanding existing training schools,
and improving trainee recruitment and staff retention.          nagement will be
developed through management training, developing monitoring and information
systems, and strengthening supervision. The programs also include experiments
in health care financing, efforts to increase the production of pharmaceutical
and medical equipment, and strategies for the development of the private health
sector; these will not be directly supported through the project.
53.   In addition, there is a federal program, part of which supports provincial
activities directly, such as for communicable disease control, while the balance
is for national activities with some limited provincial involvement, for example
in health research.
Policy Actions
54. The provincial governments' commitment to improving and better funding
primary health care is reflected in the comitments given in the PFP, the PSAL
and finally in the preparation of the SAP. Under the SAP, the government has
committed itself to the implementation of an eleven point program to improve the
provision of primary education, primary health, family planning and rural water
supply and sanitation. In relation to health, these points include improving
conditions of employment in rural areas, providing family planning in all health
outlets, increasing budgetary allocations, improving the data base to monitor
outcomes of services, prioritizing programs and projects, improving resource
availability, and increasing decentralization (see Annex 3 for details).
Continuing work on the SAP has the objective of ensuring the removal of
constraints to implementation, ensuring adequate recurrent expenditures and
ensuring that new investments are made according to additional implementation
capacity.
B.  Proiect Objectives. Suary DescriRtion and Policy Actions
Proiect Obiectives and Priorities
55.   The primary objective of the project is to improve the health status of the
population of Balochistan and the Punjab through assisting the provincial
governments with the implementation of their respective provincial health



- 17 -
development programs, including strengthening institutional capacity, over the
next five years. Within this, priority is on the primary health aspects of the
programs including assisting with: (a) a shift of emphasis towards primary health
care and away from secondary and tertiary care; and (b) a shift of emphasis away
from curative care and towards preventive and promotive services.   Primary
service priority will be established through the more equitable distribution of
resources such as drugs and consumable supplies, through staff posting
(especially for female paramedical staff), and through financial allocations.
Moreover, savings achieved through improved efficiency in the sector will be
invested in primary health services. Within these broad objectives, the project
will support the key areas within the governments' programs of: (a) enhancing
the provision of maternal and child health care; and (b) facilitating these
changes, particularly through strengthened training and management.
56.   Because the needs greatly exceed the available human, implementation and
financial resources, difficult choices had to be made in the formulation of the
provincial programs.   Within the resulting priorities,  the conclusions of
workshops in Balochistan and the Punjab determined the priority areas of the
program for potential IDA and cooperating donors (KfW and ODA working in close
consultation with the other donors) support.   Thus,  the proposed project
comprises a group of priority sub-programs of the total development program. It
also follows from the 1991 Family Health project which focused on the North-West
Frontier Province (NWFP) and Sindh.
57.   The proposed project will support the implementation of the provincial
programs  through:    (a)  financing  investments  in critical  areas  of  the
governments' plan for primary health services development with priority given to
maternal and child health; (b) supporting institutional strengthening in the
health sector which will improve both service quality and the efficiency of
service delivery in critically deficient areas; and (c) facilitating the
implementation of Rolicy reforms in the sector which will enable the above
measures to be realized. Work on preparing the government health programs is
continuing, but the primary care aspects are well advanced. The latter is being
supported by several bilateral donors and international agencies.   During
Negotiations, draft health chapters of the Eighth Plan for the two provinces were
discussed with IDA.   Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that an
official statement of health sector policy, strategy and priorities vill be
prepared for the two provinces, discussed with IDA and issued by December
1993.
SummarX  Descriltion
58.   The project supports selective parts of the provincial programs considered
to be high priority. It comprises the following three major components:
Strenttheninn Health Services aims at improving health services in two priority
fields: (a) introducing an enhanced package of maternal health services,
including family planning, and (b) integrating and expanding comsunicable disease
control activities, mainly in rural areas but with some experiments in urban
areas, through:



- 18 -
a. improved access to services including:
i.    expanding traditional birth attendant training and experimenting
with and introducing community health workers;
ii.   posting additional staff, particularly female paramedical staff;
iii. strengthening the referral system and enhancing emergency
handling capacity; and
iv.   expanding NGO health and population activities.
b. improved quality of services including:
i.    introducing organized in-service training for field staff;
ii.   upgrading facilities and equipment at selected Basic Health Units
and MCH Centres and improving the availability of essential
medicines and supplies;
iii. enhancing nutrition activities;
iv.   strengthening  and  expanding  communicable  disease  control
activities including diagnostic capacities;
v.    making  family  planning  services  available  in  all  health
facilities; and
vi.   increasing management and supervision capability;
c. improved utilization of services including:
i.    strengthening health education;
ii.   encouraging community involvement with local health services;
iii. assessing and improving service impact; and
d. limited urban primary health expansion in slum areas of Lahore,
Bahawalpur and Sarghoda (Punjab) and Quetta (Balochistan).
Staff Develo2ennt aims at improving staff capabilities and performance and
increasing the number of female paramedical staff through:
a. the introduction of a comprehensive, continuing in-service training
program for existing primary health care staff;
b. expanded female paramedical training output and improved quality by:
i.    establishing additional paramedical schools;



- 19 -
ii.   strengthening existing training institutions and programs; and
c. improved trainee recruitment schemes, incentives and job enhancement
programs.
Management and Or&anization DeveloDment aims at improving management capabilities
through:
a. increased management and planning institutional capacity including:
i.    establishing provincial  and district management  development
units;
ii.   strengthening provincial planning capacity;
iii. strengthening provincial implementation capacity; and
b. improved management quality and efficiency including:
i.    introducing systematic management training;
ii.   increasing decentralization of authority to the district level;
iii. developing monitoring, information and financial systems; and
iv.   strengthening supervisory skills and practices;
Additionally, limited Federal inputs include: (a) developing primary care
activities, including health services and management development, in the
Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT) including supporting one NGO project; and (b)
strengthening health systems research capacity.
Policy Actions
59.   The provincial governments' commitment to improving and better funding of
primary health care is reflected in the PFP, the PSAL, the SAPs (see Annex 3 for
details) and the sector development programs. The policy actions agreed through
the project focus on a limited number of key aspects which are crucial
operationally to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of primary health
care and maternal and child health services. In summary they are:
Actions to imro've primary care services:
a. introduction of essential drugs lists (see para. 73);
b. improved coordination among the communicable disease control programs
(see para. 75); and
c. implementation of policies to provide family planning services in
government health facilities (see para. 77);



- 20 -
Actions to improve suRRort services:
a. introduction of a systematic in-service staff training program (see
para. 87);
b. review and improvement of service conditions for female paramedical
staff (see para. 91);
c. introduction of a management training program (see para. 95); and
d. increased delegation of powers to district officers (see para. 100).
In addition, the project includes agreements to ensure the availability of
sufficient additional recurrent funds for basic health services (see para. 60).
Annual Reviews
60.   The annual program reviews between the governments, IDA and the cooperating
donors will be an essential element in improving the management of the sector.
The focus will be on the planning and monitoring of the implementation of the
program. In these reviews, progress in implementing the program will be assessed
and work-plans and program targets developed for the coming year, which will
conform both with the agreed overall sectoral priority investments and the agreed
policy actions. Monitoring indicators for these annual reviews are specified in
Annex 3. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that, by March 31 of each
year each province, with IDA and the cooperating donors, will: (a) review the
program and project implementation for the past fiscal year; (b) review and agree
the schedules and planned development budgetary allocations for the program and
project implementation for the coming fiscal year; and (c) agree planned overall
recurrent budgetary allocations which will include this IDA project and other
assistance for the coming fiscal year. These agreements will be reflected in the
budget proposal for each fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained that each
province will provide sufficient development and recurrent funding to primary and
rural health services throughout the program; that the recurrent health budget
proposal will reflect the real rate of growth of GDP; and that preference for the
allocation of additional recurrent resources will be given to basic health
services and non-salary items. The federal government, IDA and the cooperating
donors will also review annually the funds required for carrying out both the
provincial programs and the federal activities.
C. Detailed Project DescriRtion
61.   This section presents in detail the project components.  These components
are : (a) Strengthening Primary Health Services; (b) Staff Development; and (c)
Management and Organizational Development. To facilitate comparisons with the
development programs of Balochistan and the Punjab, the section is divided into
three categories: (a) primary health services, subdivided into inputs to improve
service (i) access, (ii) quality, and (iii) utilization; (b) secondary and
tertiary health services; and (c) support services, subdivided into (i) staff
development and (ii) management, with more details given for sub-programs



- 21 -
directly affecting maternal and child care and those proposed for FHII financing.
A sumary implementation chart is given at Annex 10.24/
Strenutheninn  Primary Health Services  (total project contribution US$64.5
million, of which Balochistan US$12.9 million and the Punjab US$51.6 million,
including contingencies)
62.   This series of sub-programs aims at strengthening primary health services
in two priority areas by introducing an enhanced package of maternal health
services including family planning (also known as 'safe motherhood') and by
improving the coverage and effectiveness of communicable disease control
activities. The additional services to be provided will supplement or strengthen
existing services while some existing services will be reorganized. In summary
(details are given in Annex 4), the services affected will be:
a. at the village level, where few services presently exist, expanding and
introducing prenatal care (including high risk pregnancy screening),
supervised delivery, postnatal care (including family planning and
nutrition) through trained TBAs and female CHWs (CHWs only in the
Punjab); introducing minor curative care, communicable disease case
finding, and health and hygiene promotion mainly through CHWs;
b. at the BHU level, ensuring that present curative and preventive
services function and especially strengthening prenatal, supervised
delivery and postnatal services, and adding links to the TBAs/CHWs and
to referral levels; introducing family planning; strengthening
diagnostic services; reorganizing tuberculosis and malaria control
services; and enhancing health education and nutrition activities;
c. at the RH level, as for the maternal health services at BHUs but with
the capability to handle higher risk cases, and also with a greater
focus on the preventive and promotive services; and
d. at the tehsil hosRital level, focusing on improved emergency and
referral services, with some enhancement to district hosRital maternal
diagnostic services especially in Balochistan.
ImDroved access
63.   Through:    (a)  expanding  traditional  birth  attendant  training  and
experimenting with and introducing community health workers; (b) posting
w During proarm preparation, care is boing taken by the governments to coordinato with other donor
agencies. Operational mchanisms for donor liaison in Jalochisten and the Punjab are boing strengthened.
Representatives of CIDA, XfW, ODA, end Save the ChiLdren Fund participated in preparation misionr nd there
was one joint mission with the ADD. UNICEF and WBO finLncod significant partc of the program preparatory
work. The detailed preparation of project supported inputs was minly completed by government offioials
with a* technical support frao local academic institutions end progrm developennt workshops, generally
facilitated by visiting donor missions.



- 22 -
additional staff, particularly female paramedical staff; (c) strengthening the
referral system and enhancing emergency handling capacity; and (d) expanding NGO
health and population activities.
64.   Koanding TRA trainin  and eg2erimentina with and introducing coumumitv
health workers.   This sub-program will comprise the expansion of the well-
established and continuing, mainly UNICEF financed, TBA training program, create
a link between the trained TBAs and the local primary health care facility, and
start (in Balochistan) and strengthen (in the Punjab), in-service training.25/
Following a detailed evaluation, adjustments in the TEA training program are
being implemented through phasing-in the involvement of local BHU/RHC staff and
changes to and expansion of the present TBA training teams. The BHU/RHC will
become responsible for the training and support of TBAs from the villages in its
catchment area. The sub-program anticipates continuing UNICEF financing, as well
as additional support to be provided through FHII, which together will meet
almost all of the needs.  The project financed incremental activities in both
provinces will include about 4,800 TBAs to be trained initially, 2,000 to receive
refresher training and the provision of about 14,000 kits and their resupply plus
supporting simple teaching materials.
65. National policy is to introduce a new cadre of community health workers.
At present, there is little outreach work from health facilities and the
introduction of community health workers will help fill this gap. In the Punjab,
the program plans to start with an experimental approach by developing and
implementing their training initially in one district.  Different modalities for
paying  these  workers  will  be  tried.    Assuming  that  the  experience  is
satisfactory, the training will be expanded to some 500 CHWs initially.  The
project will support this entire sub-program.   Despite national policy, the
Balochistan government's view is that CHWs are unlikely to be successful in the
local social and logistical setting.  No inputs are included in the program for
government CHW related activities in Balochistan.
66.   Posting additional staff. Rarticularly female 2aramedical staff.  Many
existing rural facilities, especially in Balochistan, are unable to offer health
services for women due to lack of female paramedical staff.  In the Puniab,
almost all positions have been created and funded, but many are vacant; in
Balochistan, there is a need to create additional positions to supplement
existing vacant posts so that the small number of female paramedical staff
expected to become available will be employed.   The program, with project
financing, will assist with the salaries of only about 90 Lady Health Visitors
and Female Health Technicians, all incremental positions in rural facilities in
Balochistan, which is a small part of the optimal provincial requirement. In
addition, incremental costs of female paramedical staff for improved service
outreach will be provided in both 2rovinces.
67.   Strengthenin  the  referral  system and enhancing  emergency handlinj
ca2acitl.   The rapid identification and proper handling of emergencies is
I Due to the different provincial situations, in Balochistan Thn are initially trained by mobile
teems while in the B&J&j this is done at fixed itecs.



- 23 -
essential; it also helps establish the credibility of the health system.
Logistical and cultural constraints differ markedly between the two provinces.
Although the program will improve the entire hospital system (see below), the
enhancement of the referral system is a priority, especially the identification
and referral of obstetric emergencies through inclusion of risk assessment as a
key item in TBA and CHW training and through establishing a system for early
referral to the BHU/RHC.   Referral support services will be improved by the
programs, with project financing, through installing telephones or, where
necessary, radios for BHUs and RHCs (in the Puniab only), increased funds for
transport hire and the provision of ambulances and funds for experiments in
Balochistan on alternatives for emergency transport and communications.
68.   The programs include support for emergency referral services at almost all
lower level hospitals in both Rrovinces. This will include upgrading existing
emergency facilities including labor rooms, at six divisional hospitals in
Balochistan and at about 30 district hospitals in the Punjab. Additionally,
enhancing the first line referral services available for obstetric emergencies
at key district hospitals and RHCs in Balochistan and at about 260 tehsil
hospitals and RHCs in the Punijab. Physicians, supplementally trained through
special surgical and emergency procedure short courses, will be posted at those
facilities where specialists are not available. In total, over 300 operating
facilities will be partly re-equipped and provided with additional medicines and
supplies. Additionally, in Balochistan, equipment and supplies will be provided
for establishing a labor room at 36 district hospitals and RHCs. The project
will finance this sub-program.
69.   Exoanding NGO health and Rormlation activities.  As discussed in Chapter
I, the policy of the governments is to encourage the expansion of NGO health and
population activities particularly through the nascent Health Foundations. The
provincial budgets include significant allocations for grants-in-aid to NGOs.
The project will support part of this sub-program through some 13 specific sub-
projects to expand the work of five well-established Pakistani NGOs. Generally,
the construction and equipping of facilities, plus associated training and
experimental community health schemes, will be supported with the NGOs being
responsible for almost all incremental recurrent costs. In Balochistan, five
sub-projects with four NGOs have been appraised; in the Puniab, criteria for
identifying suitable NGOs and sub-projects have been agreed which will ensure
that activities are consistent with the overall sub-program objectives. It is
anticipated that facilities to be supported will include four maternity
hospitals, about 85 MCH clinics, equipment for one nurse training school, and
training costs.
ImNDroved guality
70.   Through:  (a) introducing organized in-service training for field staff;
(b) upgrading facilities and equipment at salected Basic Health Units and MCH
Centres and improving the availability of essential medicines and supplies; (c)
enhancing nutrition activities; (d) strengthening and expanding comunicable
disease control activities and diagnostic capacities mainly ira ural facilities;



- 24 -
(e) making family planning services available in all health facilities; and (f)
increasing management and supervision capability.
71.   Introducina organi ed in-service trainina for field staff.  see par&. 87.
72. Upgrading facilities and egui ment at selected Basic Health Units *nd MC_
Centres and  Drovina the availability of essential medicines *nd supplies
Although the network of rural health facilities is generally adequate,
particularly in the Punjab, the program includes provision for selected upgrading
and expansion of facilities and the construction of a further 8-9X rural
facilities in both provinces (197 BHUs in the Punjab and 50 BHUs and RHCs in
Balochistan). Within this facility development sub-program, the project will
only support priority MCH-related facilities in Balochistan, through upgrading
about 30 Dispensaries to MCH Centres and their equipping and staffing, providing
about 48 residences for female paramedical staff at existing MCH Centres and
providing additional and replacement MCH equipment to about 150 BHUs. In the
Punjab, the project will finance the sub-program activities which will provide
MCH equipment, furniture and other minor equipment to some 2,300 BHUs and MCH
Centres.  Additionally, in both Rrovinces, about 138 temporary (satellite)
clinics, linked to existing facilities, will be established and equipped in areas
where facilities are inaccessible to women due to social constraints.
73.   Supplying additional basic medicines and supplies to some 2,360 BHUs and
MCH Centres from within an approved list of essential items graded to the type
of facility. Such essential drugs lists are in various stages of preparation and
approval by the federal and provincial governments but have yet to be
implemented. In the Punjab, experiments with co-munity contributions to facility
medicine budgets will be included. In both provinces, the distribution system
for medicines and supplies will be reorganized and decentralized through
additional staff, training, studies and improved transport.  Assurances were
obtained during Negotiations that essential drugs lists will be approved by the
Balochistan and Punjab Departments of Health by July 1994 and introduced by
December 1994.
74.   Enhancg  nutrition activities. Nutrition activities typically have been
led from the Federal level while province-led inputs have been weak.  The
provincial nutrition sub-programs are being developed and are likely to include
strengthened nutrition education and micronutrient distribution. IDA is in the
early stages of developing a nutrition project, which will take up major
nutrition-related interventions. This project focuses on inputs which will pave
the way for this proposed nutrition project, and concentrates on aspects which
will have a direct effect on MCH.  Thus the project includes only limited
nutrition activities including increasing the presently very few technical
nutrition staff, developing and updating provincial nutrition strategies, and
integrating nutrition activities and education into MCH Centres, BHUs and RHCs
routine work. Inputs are similar in both Balochistan and the Puniab, although
nutrition problems are more serious in Balochistan.   Provision for basic
equipment, supplies, education materials, transport, studies and consultancies
and incremental technical staff is included.



- 25 -
75.   Strenethenine and e2wandina communicable disease control activities and
diagnostic caRacities. This sub-program covers a wide range of preventive health
activities including those for immunization, the control of (a) diarrheal
diseases, (b) acute respiratory infections, (c) malaria, (d) tuberculosis, and
a variety of specialized activities including those against leprosy, AIDS, and
drug abuse. For most of these activities there will be significant federal as
well as provincial inputs.  Several of these activities receive substantial
external support, especially from UNICEF, USAID and CIDA (USAID' s withdrawal will
partly be compensated by new inputs from ADB).  The governments' plan is to
improve the coverage and effectiveness of these activities. The project will
finance part of this sub-program, mainly through supporting the integration of
most of the various non-specialized vertically organized communicable disease
control programs in the periphery. This will require a major program of re-
training for selected field staff of the key vertical communicable disease
control programs.   Training costs in each province will be provided.  The
peripheral reorganization will also involve parallel changes at the district and
provincial levels including increased delegation of responsibility to the
district level and below. In addition, a system of disease surveillance will be
introduced to facilitate monitoring and upgrading of control strategies. The
majority of, staff and equipment are available and only modest increases are
required. Unlike Balochistan, which generally has sufficient equipment stocks,
much of the equipment in the Puniab will require replacement during the project
period; vehicles in both provinces will be replaced.  Otherwise the types of
input are similar in the two Rrovinc   and the project will finance incremental
staff, transport (vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles), cold chain equipment and
spares, and consumable supplies especially syringes and anti-tuberculosis
medicines. Assurances vere obtained during Negotiations that an in-depth study
for analyzing and saking recommendations on the administrative end staffing
implications of the proposod reorganization of the com=mnicable disease control
program will be completed by July 1994, necessary measures agreed with IDA by
December 1994, and implemontation started by July 1995.
76.   Linked  to  the  above  changes  in communicable  disease  control,  the
sub-program with project financing will strengthen the work of the existing very
modest laboratories in the BHUs/RHCs in both Balochistan and the Puniab through
re-training of existing personnel and provision of additional essential supplies
and equipment including microscopes. Also, unlike in the Punjab, Balochistan has
no effective functioning public health laboratory.   Such a laboratory is
essential for undertaking basic food, water and drug testing for the province.
The project will finance the construction and equipping of a laboratory in
Quetta, staff training and incremental staff and other operating costs.
77.   Making family Rlannlng services available in all health facilities. Almost
all of the governments' population activities are handled by the Ministry of
Population Welfare (MN), with the development plans being presented largely
independently of those for the health system. However, a key part of the Eighth
Plan is that the governments intend to rectify the position whereby most health
facilities do not presently provide family planning services. The project will
finance activities in this crucial but small part of the overall population
program. This sub-program will complement training for health staff already in



- 26 -
progress by MPW and support the introduction of family planning services into all
government health facilities  in both provinces.   Family planning will be
integrated with all other routine health services offered.  Assurances were
obtained during Negotiations that, in advance of the phasing of overall project
implementation by districts, about half of the government health facilities in
Balochistan and the Punjab will offer family planning services by December 1994
and all such facilities will do so by July 1996.
78.   Increasing management and suDervision capacity.  See para. 94.
Imnroved utilization
79.   Through:  (a) strengthening health education; (b) encouraging community
involvement with local health services; and (c) assessing and improving service
impact.
80.   Strengtheninn health education. Health and nutrition education activities
are rudimentary and their development will be a major factor in improving health
status and service utilization. The program anticipates substantial developments
in health education, both federally and provincially, with a particular focus on
MCH. The proposed ADB project will focus especially on the federal level while
FHII will concentrate on the provinces particularly at the district level;
between them the two operations will cover a large proportion of the health
education sub-program. Through FHII, a nucleus of health education professionals
will be established such that there will be a basic public health education
capability in each district by the end of the program.  Education materials
production will normally be contracted out. Health, population and nutrition
education will be integrated into the routine work of all primary health care
staff. MCH and family planning related materials will be shared between the
Health and Population Welfare Departments. Inputs and activities through the
project will be similar in Balochistan and the Punjab and will provide support
for additional professional staff, consultancies, basic equipment and supplies,
and funds for materials research and production.
81.   Encouraginm community involvement with local health services.  Community
involvement in public health services has been seriously neglected. To address
this deficiency, the program intends to make a beginning in both provinces with
project support through:   (a) an information campaign focussed on maternal
health, family planning, communicable diseases and staff recruitment; (b)
appointment of CHWs in the Punjab in consultation with the community; (c)
increasing local 'ownership'  through decentralization (see para. 100);  (d)
experiments with the involvement of Union Councils in the management, review and
funding of BHUs especially in the Punjab; and (e) community financing initiatives
especially for medicines.
82. Assessing and improving service imoact. Through the enhanced management
information system (see para. 101), the impact of increased services utilization
on health status will be assessed, in both provinces, with project financing
through: (a) studies to examine, inter alia, the effects on service utilization



- 27 -
of enhanced service inputs and the impact of changes in public perceptions of
services; and (b) establishing community-based surveillance systems.
Other Primary Health Activities
83.   Other activities included in the provincial programs and therefore in the
annual sectoral reviews, but which will be lower priority sub-programs for FHII
and therefore not financed through the project include: (a) makin; school health
services oRerational - despite the posting of large numbers of doctors to
schools, little progress has been made in either preventive health education or
regular check-ups. During the program period, it is intended to re-orientate the
program to concentrate on promoting healthy life styles combined with a closer
involvement of school staff; (b) strengthening traditional medicine - the
involvement of the public sector in traditional medicine has been limited and
confined to support for training together with the provision of a small number
of curative facilities especially in the Punjab. The program essentially will
continue this approach, but strengthen public sector technical support; and (c)
enhancing non-communicable disease control - the programs focus on two areas,
cancer control and mental health.  For cancer, the intent is to: (i) improve
early detection facilities, especially at district hospitals and above; and (ii)
to establish cancer registries; in mental health, the approach will be to: (i)
decentralize services and integrate them better into primary care; (ii) train the
staff concerned; and (iii) promote mental health education.
Urban Health
84.   The program highlights urban primary health as an area to receive serious
attention especially through establishing and strengthening local government
services.  Substantial funds have been earmarked for this in the development
program, particularly for the creation of a primary health infrastructure.
However, experience with public urban primary health is limited and so the
project will assist with experiments aiming at (a) developing and expanding
prototypes for urban health services delivery and (b) improving cost
effectiveness.   Project investments will be confined to three cities in the
Punjab and limited inputs to one in Balochistan and therefore will account for
only a small part of the total urban primary health sub-program. In the Punjab,
Lahore has successfully developed its primary services, with very limited
resources. It has established a network of primary care facilities, most with
an MCH orientation, and is developing active prevention and promotion programs.
Attempts to improve cost recovery and establish community financing have had some
success. The sub-program will build on this experience through: (a) expanding
these initiatives with a focus on improved service quality and access; (b)
evaluating successful aspects of the system for potential replication elsewhere
in the Punjab; (c) establish a health surveillance system in the Lahore slums;
and (d) experiment further with community financing initiatives and increased
community  involvement.    Project  inputs  include  incremental medicines  and
supplies, construction of houses for female paramedical staff and labor rooms
(which will raise about half of the facilities to the present standard of the
remainder), upgrading and equipping eight diagnostic dispensaries (about half of
the total), equipment, supplies and equipment for the health education and
malaria control programs, and study costs including incremental staff and



- 28 -
consultancies. Additionally, given the large urban population in the Punjab, a
study to develop a scientific typology for urban primary health care in different
sizes of Punjab city will be conducted.   The findings will be tested in
Bahawalpur and Sarghoda towards the end of the program. In the interim, moderate
amounts of micronutrients, syringes and other consumable supplies will be
provided. In Balochistan, the urban population is only substantial in Quetta.
Present primary care services are limited and comprehensive urban health
development plans are yet to be developed. Project inputs are modest and will
support the construction, furnishing and equipping of and supplies for four MCH
Centres (additional to the present six), ambulances and sanitation and malaria
control equipment.
Secondary and Tertiary Services
85.   The governments' programs for the development of hospital services are
still under preparation.  Within the principle of restricting expenditure on
public hospitals, the development program is expected to focus on: (a) limiting
additional beds; (b) controlling the use of expensive new technology; (c)
providing administrative autonomy to larger hospitals; (d) increasing user
charges, with hospitals permitted to retain the collected revenue for subsequent
expenditure on approved items; (e) introducing training for hospital managers;
(f) establishing hospital quality of care control systems; and (g) strengthening
the referral system. Additionally, the government wishes the private sector
gradually to take over the provision of tertiary care. There is no information
on the detailed plans for either Balochistan or the Punjab. The project is not
proposing to finance inputs to hospitals per se, other than those for ensuring
a minimum of obstetric emergency and first level referral cover together with
some support service inputs. Selected bilateral donors are expected to finance
limited inputs to hospitals especially for medical equipment, while the ADB is
planning to upgrade critical secondary curative services particularly in the
Punjab. In addition, there are other continuing donor supported programs, in
such areas as laboratory development and medical equipment maintenance and
repair, which are mainly hospital oriented.
Staff Develoment'M (total project contribution US$31.2 million, of which
Balochistan  US$9.9  million  and  the  Punjab  US$21.3  million,  including
contingencies)
86.   The provincial programs recognize that improvement in the quality and
availability of health staff, particularly female paramedical staff, is the key
to making progress in the sector. The strategy in both provinces is similar and
aims at improving staff capabilities and performance and increasing the number
of female paramedical staff through: (a) introducing systematic in-service
training to refresh and improve the skills of existing primary health care staff;
(b) increasing the training capacity for female paramedical staff and
strengthening and expanding existing training institutions and programs; and (c)
improving the recruitment and retention of selected groups of key female
paramedical staff. A key constraint to improving the availability and use of
W  Further details an this coponent are given in Aznex 5.



- 29 -
maternal health services is the limited number of female paramedical staff,
especially in Balochistan. The programs include the provision of comprehensive
training   to   improve   existing   staff  capabilities,   performance,   and
motivation271. Past in-service training in both provinces has been limited and
ad hoc. The proposed continuous in-service training program has been planned so
that training for different categories of staff is complementary and that in-
service training and supervision are linked. In order for these approaches to
be effective, female staff must begin service after training and be retained.
The ADB Health Care Development project and FHII are especially complementary in
the staff development area, and between them will cover almost all of the
programs' requirements for paramedical staff development in both Rrovinces.
While medical staff will be beneficiaries of the in-service training, the
presently available provincial programs do not address directly either: (a) the
problem of the over-supply and poor quality of new medical graduates; or (b) the
in-service training needs of hospital-based medical staff. While accepting that
(a) is an important issue, neither the federal nor provincial governments have
yet been able to develop plans which will command the necessary political support
to tackle the matter directly; (b) is a complex matter which has yet to be
seriously taken up by any government.
Inproving staff caRabilities and Rerformance
87.   The programs intend to introduce in a phased manner a comprehensive,
sustained and well-organized job-specific in-service training program for
existing primary health care staff.  Key staff will receive some in-service
training at least once a year. In-service training programs will be developed
at the provincial level through curriculum development workshops conducted with
technical assistance especially during the first year. District level trainers
will be trained by provincial master trainers.   The in-service training
activities will be coordinated and partly implemented through the Provincial and
District Health Development Centres (see para. 94). Training for RHC and BHU
staff in the training and supervision of lower level workers is also incorporated
as are the re-training programs to better integrate the staff of the communicable
disease control programs (see para. 75). In each province, about 30 different
in-service training programs are envisaged ranging from one day seminars to one
month courses with participants varying from physicians to TBAs and CHWs. While
some in-service training will continue under the auspices of specific programs,
especially the centrally funded vertical programs, the project will finance a
very substantial part of the overall in-service training sub-program.   The
implementation of this in-service training sub-program is a large undertaking and
it is essential that key trainers are in position early in the program period.
Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that the provincial staff
development teams, which will be responsible for developing the provincial in-
service training programs, will be established and adequately staffed by December
1993.
WI While the focus of these programs will be on NCI cervices and female health staff, the progra
will involve all tyma of primary hoalth car. staff, male and femalc.



- 30 -
Increasing the output and auality of selected groups of paramedical
staff. IsReciall f2malGs26/
88.   The program intends to address the present shortage of key paramedical
staff through a major expansion to the existing provincial training capacity by:
(a) establishing a substantial number of small new training schools; and (b)
strengthening and expanding existing training institutions and programs. This
will include activities to improve the quality of pre-service training. Detailed
provincial plans for these developments have been prepared which will meet the
provinces' needs for additional paramedical staff for the next ten years. ADB
and FHII between them will meet virtually the entire needs of both provinces,
with ADB expected to finance a substantial majority.
89.   Establishing additional paramedical schools.  The requirements in the two
provinces differ. In the Punjab, the projected staffing needs of the province
require that 24 new institutions will be established. All of these new schools
will be financed by the ADB except for two lady health visitor schools, at
Chakwal and Sahiwal, which will be financed through FHII. The two FHII financed
schools will eventually produce some 100 new lady health visitors annually. The
project will provide for the construction, equipment, furniture, transport and
contribute to the schools' incremental operating costs.  In Balochistan, the
needs are more extreme, the constraints much greater and the numbers required
less. The provincial plan calls for the establishment of seven new schools, all
of which will be ADB financed.
90.   Strengthening existing traininA  institutions and 2rograms.   In bo_th
Rrovinces, training quality improvement activities will include curriculum
revision, training trainers, teaching materials and equipment provision, and
improved testing procedures. To help address the chronic shortages of female
staff in Balochistan, in addition to expanding the TBA training program, a new
program will be introduced to enhance the skill of the dais (low level female
staff already working in many rural health facilities).   In addition,  in
Balochistan five and in the Puniab 15, existing training facilities require
modest expansion and additional female supervisory staff in order to meet
additional training requirements especially in midwifery. FHII will finance the
Balochistan and three of the Punjab school expansions while ADB will finance the
remainder. In addition, the Punjab program includes provision for upgrading the
College of Community Medicine in Lahore; the College is the only post-basic
training institution in public health in Pakistan. FHII will meet a small part
of this, mainly through technical support. Overall, FHII will finance building
upgrading, two hostels, staff housing, equipment, transport for students and
supervision, training supplies, technical assistance and help with incremental
staff and operating costs.
U Most of the additional trainins schools requirod are expected to be financed by the ADD.



- 31 -
Izproving trainee recruitment schemes, incentives and iob enhancement
lDro&r msL
91.   Female staff recruitment and retention problems are acute in Balochistan
and therefore the government has included in its plans an intensive effort to
address  these  difficulties.    Steps  include  establishing  motivation  and
recruitment teams and campaigns, using mass media, faculty-family visits and
parent education programs; enhancing the training stipends, salary steps, bonus
systems, and service conditions and incentives, particularly for rural service;
and housing and transport availability and security for female paramedical staff
both during training and service. In addition, work will continue on improving
the definition of career paths for female staff, integration of cadres with
similar training, and making minimum rural service and rotation requirements
clear. Similar measures, but at a greatly reduced level, are planned for the
Punjab where these problems are much less severe.  Assurances were obtained
during Negotiations that a study of the financial and non-financial incentives
and service conditions of female paramedical staff, both during training and
subsequent employment, vill be conducted for each province by July 1994,
necessary measures agreed vith IDA and implementation started by December 1994.
These reviews will take account of the similar work in progress under the Family
Health Project in NVYP and Sindh.
Management and Organizational Development~w (total project contribution
US$13.1 million, of which Balochistan US$4.0 million and the Punjab US$9.1
million, including contingencies).
92.   The objective of this important sub-program is to improve health management
capabilities through (a) increased management and planning institutional
capacity; and (b) improved management quality and efficiency.   Strengthened
management will facilitate the effective utilization of investments throughout
the sector, but particularly at the district level and below.  Broadly, the
project will finance almost all of the programs' provincial management
development activities.
Increased manatement and planning institutional capacity
93.   The provincial programs will increase management capacity through:  (a)
establishing provincial and district management development units; (b)
strengthening provincial planning capacity; and (c) strengthening provincial
implementation capacity.
94.   Establishing provincial and district management develoRment units.  Since
neither in-service training nor management development are presently recognized
as line activities of the provincial health departments, it will be necessary for
these important activities to be institutionalized during the program period.
To this end, a Provincial Health Development Centre (PHDC) will be established
in both  Balochistan  and  the  Puniab  comprising  four  units:    management
development,   staff  development,   health  and  nutrition  education   and
I Further details are given in Annex 5.



- 32 -
research/monitoring. The basic operational strategy for all these functions is
in-service training reinforced by supportive supervision.  The PHDC for the
Punjab will be in Lahore and be a development and expansion of the existing
Management Training Institute for Doctors; in Balochistan, the PHDC will be
established in Quetta. In addition, a modest District Health Development Centre
(DHDC) will be established initially in each division headquarters and
subsequently in each district headquarters in the Punjab and in each division
headquarters in Balochistan to assist the district team's work and to provide
some  limited  residential  in-service  training  facilities.30/   The  PHDC,
supported by the DHDCs, will be responsible for facilitating the implementation
of much of the province's training program, both for technical in-service and
management training. Further details of the structure and functions of the PHDC
and DHDCs are given in Annex 6.
95.   Within this framework, detailed requirements and hence the inputs vary
significantly between Balochistan and the Punjab. The project will finance all
of these activities including civil works for constructing the two PHDCs and for
establishing about 36 DHDCs (6 in Balochistan and 30 in the Punjab) plus their
office equipment and furniture, training equipment and supplies. Mobility is
essential for the district teams and about 46 vehicles, mostly 4-wheel drive, for
both provinces will be provided. Funds are also included for teaching materials,
course costs, local and foreign consultants, fellowships, incremental salaries
and allowances, and vehicle operating costs. Officers have been identified for
the three senior positions in each Provincial Health Development Centre.
Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that: (a) at least 75 percent of
the professional staff of the Provincial Health Development Centres will be
recruited or transferred in by the end of December 1993 with the Centres being
fully staffed by December 1994; and (b) that at least 75 percent of the
professional staff for the District Health Development Centres will be recruited
or transferred in by the end of the first year in which they are scheduled to
begin operations with the balance appointed during the second year of operation.
96.   Strengtheninag  rovincial planning capacity.  Only very limited health
planning is presently done, but both provinces have embryonic planning cells
within the Health Departments. Building on this small base, the program will
strengthen their capacity considerably and eventually establish a viable health
planning capability in each province. In Balochistan, where a start has already
been made with ADB and ODA support, the sub-program will supplement this through
FHII. In the Punlab, FHII will finance the entire activity. The development of
the planning capacity will be closely related to the parallel improvements in
management and organization and with the establishment of manpower planning
capacity (ADB assisted). FHII will provide for vehicles, office equipment and
furniture, fellowships, consultants, and assistance with incremental staff and
operating costs.
9/ Restricting DBDC to the division level in alj ofhLJtn msinly reflects the relatively small number
of health staff in each district compared to the YZ1^> Subsequent references to district Centres end
tems should be read as applying to the division level in flcckaLVM.



- 33 -
97.   Strengthenia Rrov  cal LUnementation capcitv. To support the existing
line management who will be responsible for implementing the program and sub-
programs, in both provinces, the project will finance essential additional staff,
supplies, transport and office equipment. Provision for training for staff and
for regular bi-annual inter-provincial coordination meetings is included. To
assist the development of any follow-up operation, an allocation for the
preparation of such projects is included.
Imnroved manatement guality and efficiency
98.   Through:  (a) introducing systematic management training; (b) increasing
decentralization of authority to the district level; (c) developing monitoring,
information and financial systems; and (d) strengthening supervisory skills and
practices.
99.   Introducing systematic management trainin.g  An in-service management and
supervisory training system will be developed so that, from the district level
down, primary care service managers in both Rrovinces receive an initial
intensive program with regular refresher courses. About 75X of managers will
receive initial training by the end of the third year. This program is closely
linked to the above  technical  in-service  training programs.   To ensure
consistency of district staff development, regular in-service training and
planning workshops will be held for the district teams themselves, mainly
conducted by provincial level staff.
100.  Increasina decentralization of authority to the district level.    The
delegation of increased program and financial authority to the district level
proposed in the Seventh Plan has yet to be implemented.  The programs make
allowance for this and the Departments of Health are currently studying the
problem with the intent to increase delegation levels, linked to enhanced
accountability, insofar as it is within their administrative power. The project
will provide technical assistance to facilitate this process. Assurances were
obtained during Negotiations that:  (a) powers will be delegated to District
Health Officers by June 1994 to hire, transfer and promote staff up to Basic Pay
Scale 12 in their districts; and (b) existing levels of financial delegation for
operating expenditures will be implemented.
101.  Developing monitorin. information and financial sstems. The sub-program
plans that these systems will be linked to the operational and budget systems in
order to record service statistics and expenditure against plans; having both the
planned and actual information will best support management decision making.
Existing information systems are weak but with USAID assistance, a significant
start on strengthening them has been made. In both provinces the programs will
build on this and focus on establishing a functioning district level information
system. The financial monitoring and budget preparation process of the health
sector will also be strengthened through analyzing the present systems and
procedures used, implementing improvements, and enhancing routine monitoring.
The main project financed inputs will be for staff training, computers and
software, publications and technical assistance.



- 34 -
102. Strenntheninn suRervisorv skills and gractices. The approach in the sub-
program is that, after initial training at the PHDC and after improved
supervisory procedures are developed, a member from each district team will visit
all health facilities in their respective portion of the district, typically
monthly in the Punjab but less frequently in Balochistan, for a combination of
in-service training and supervision. The district team will also be responsible
for planning and supervising the development of the health system in their
district through annual plans linked to the budget cycle, for maintenance,
logistics, and equipment provision.
Other Support Areas
103.  The program expects to develop activities in three other areas:   (a)
experiments in health sector financing - in order to mobilize additional
resources for the sector, it is planned to:  (i) expand the coverage of the
existing social security system; (ii) introduce and increase user charges in
tertiary hospitals; and (iii) introduce a health insurance system in the larger
cities; (b) increase domestic groduction of oharmaceuticals and medical equipment
- this matter is currently under review by a federal Cabinet committee and plans
will be developed after the committee makes its recommendations; and (c)
strategies to encourage the further develoRment of the Rrivate health sector -
this mainly concerns hospitals, with plans for increasing involvement in primary
care yet to be developed.   The project will not directly finance these sub-
programs since they are either already financed or a low priority for primary
health service development.
Federal  Level   (total  project  contribution  US$5.2  million,   including
contingencies)
104. Federal activities included in FHII are discrete selected investments and
focus on: (a) improving primary health care in the Islamabad Capital Territory
(ICT); and (b) establishing health systems research capacity.
Imoroved Rrimarv health care ln the federal capital area
105. Through: (a) the development of primary care activities in the ICT; and
(b) strengthening one NGO female paramedical training school.
106. The develoment of Rrimarv care activities in ICT. In the rural parts of
the ICT, the health infrastructure is generally in place but the health system
needs considerable strengthening before it can provide quality primary
(especially HCH) services linked to existing referral facilities. Based on the
experience of a pilot scheme, the project will undertake a range of activities
similar to, but more intensive than, those in the two provinces including
introduction of a CHW scheme, training, reorganization and strengthening of CDC
activities, management development, and monitoring and evaluation.   Greater
intensity of supervision and evaluation will facilitate experimentation and
detailed epidemiological studies. Major inputs include equipment, transport and
communications, incremental staff and operating costs, and technical assistance.



- 35 -
107.  Strenathenina one NGO female paramedical school.  This lady health visitor
school is the only one run by an NGO. It is well-established but operates from
inadequate rented buildings with very limited hostel facilities. The project
will finance the construction of a school, MCH clinic and hostel for 60 students,
furniture, teaching equipment and student transport.
108.  Health systems research cagacitX strenathenina.  Within the country there
is very limited capacity in health systems research. One result is that there
is no clear basis on which to make systems related planning, management and
investment decisions.  In order to build such research capacity, the project
will, in association with the Pakistan Medical Research Council, establish
approval mechanisms, provide research funds, assist with proposal development and
results dissemination, and provide training and technical assistance.
109. As an integral part of all three components of the project, provision is
made for a modest program of domestic and overseas fellowshiRp. These will be
awarded, for agreed subjects and durations, following standard government
procedures.  Consultant services, to supplement and fill gaps in federal and
provincial knowledge and experience, are provided. While considerable expertise
exists within the country and will be tapped by the project (about 370 m/m
equivalent), international consultants in selected areas will also be required
(about 330 m/m). Provision for studies and applied research, both at the federal
and provincial level, is also included.
D. Environmental Considerations
110. The proposed project was determined to be in screening Category C which
includes projects that are expected to have no significant negative environmental
impact. No environmental analysis has been prepared for this project.
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. hANAGENENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Provincial Health Program Financing
Development ELnenditures31"
111. Table 3.1 below shows the preliminary estimates for total public health
development expenditures in the Punjab and Balochistan for the period of the
Eighth Plan (excluding SAP allocations), 1993/94-1997/98; and for comparison, the
average budget allocations for 1989/90-1992/93. In addition, the table indicates
the expenditures projected under FHII and those under ADB-assisted projects, both
J  The provincial goverrAentc typically present their health investment budgets in *even aggregate
categories: preventive care, rural hbelth, urban primary care, human resources d-veloyent, nutrition,
hospitals and others. This is the categorisation used below, but it differs from the norc detailed
categories used, for *xi_plo, in the Plan docu nts.



- 36 -
Tal 3&: HEN.TH DEVELOPMErT EPU _CINn%F    (i66I           99-1607*
Punjab end Slolnhtan
(n. miOf  in 1h 6 t    prcee)
PU#IMI                                                        ALOCIHTAN
I          16814-6016----                                   I           i66014-16716---I
t_6016-    Total      FH N      ADB      Rcet of            19i0'g-    Total       FH N      ADS      1&e of
1i 96    Program   Aemlted  Assited  Program                I 6O       Progrn  Assisted  Assisted  Progran
Avg. (d)                                   (c)              Avg.. (d)                                   (c)
1. Presntht Care                     S      2M00       36          0      1642                   34       200        43         o       157
2. RArcAlHh                        57       3200       043         16     211W                  60        400       206       143        67
3&UrbenPrim myCm                    ()       900        62         0        616                 (a)       100        20         0        so
4. Hum  A        Dow. 3v                     2000      446       800      1071                   lS       300       217        76          7
L HNutdon                           (b)      6oN        12         0       85                   (b)       100         2         0        06
8.H  stI                           400      2300       110        175     2015                   42       200        33         a       18O
7. Othe                            176       eoo        4e         0       5an                   10       100        36         0        62
Tota                             1662     11600      16a6       6        g                     1.1      1400        W2       227        300
Notes: (a) hInluded under (6). (b) WAnuded under (7). (c) Pa    aisted by other don0ns; dclai not availa.
(d) Budget 1ocatons, adlusted in lBelohlstn to Indude  erdgn..lnncd expenditures under the ADS-_ rIsed
Third Health Pros  which wer co    In the offkMl budget figur. For 1912118. atloostlone for the
Soi AUon PtroWn hwe been distb h d  bot pr Wovine  mong Prew ntS  Cars. FRurda Hesath en Hummt
Resour  D lopment, In pop -0on so te budget taNote for these, elegor_es
Surcs  Budget Oo_m ntet. Govenns of Uth Punieb and Sbeochistat
Table 32 HEALTH CURRENT 0PEIWrUF  (166N-1W6S
Punlab end _dcItlItlt
(Rs. miNin In 16 3 prlo )
1tt6    190614      10416    1066    1017    106716   16016
uWONt      Prof.     PvO.      Pro.       Prl.      Prof.     Prq.
PUNJAa
Tot Current Enditures (a)                             3860      36        3777      3U0       4007      4127       4261
tOHealth(Soss(b)(e)                                   1100      1166      1213      1273       1337      1404      1474
Salary (c)                                            650      901        044      g0o       1043      1008      1150
Non-Salry                                            241       254        267       280       294       300       324
Other Health Se vs (a)                                2440      2612      2584      2617      2670       2723      2777
SALOCHSTAN
Total Current Heat  Expenditures (a)                   703       724       746       768       791       816        83g
Bsi Health Srvics (b) (.)                              208       311       326       343       380       378        307
Salary (c)                                           222       227       236        250       283       276       2s0
Non-Salay                                             74        84         86        go        97       102       107
Other Health Services (d)                              407       413       419       426       431       437        443
Notes: (a) Aeumfng a 3% ennual rate of inrae in real terms from the benchmark yer. 16016.
(b) Assuming a 6% ennuli rte of Increa  In real trms trfrm the benchmak ew. 1061a65
(c) The pro n-    umnw that te non-alry shar of baic Health Services would remwai conetnt tt 22% lr the Punlab end 27% br Bai bottsn.
(d) Obtaned ca  residl l(s) - (b).
(c) Figure do not include lse Health Soic  alloations br dispensories end TO clIncs for the Punjab.
which range betwen FI. 100-150 miomn per annum: end BHUs. dispensries end TS clinic tar Baeoohlten,
whih anount to N.. 160 m   per annum. The figures ae Included under Other Healh Sevcs'.
Source: Annual Budget documente. Govrnments of the Punjab and  alochistan



- 37 -
of which are parts of the total health development program in each province.31'
The rest of the program consists of projects which are entirely financed by the
provincial government or other donors.   Even though details are not yet
available, inputs from the latter group are likely to be moderate.
112.  In the Punjab, total health development expenditures have remained almost
constant in real terms in the past four years but are expected to increase during
the Plan period due  to allocations  for  the  Social Action  Program.   A
disaggregated analysis of the different categories of expenditure reveals a
change towards greater emphasis on preventive care (an increase from 0.6X of
total health development expenditures to 17.2X during the Plan)33/, when
comparing the average allocations during 1989/90-1992/93 with the Plan figures.
This is a welcome development since a greater focus on preventive care would be
desirable on both efficiency and equity grounds. A similar comparison for rural
health shows a decline from 37X to 281. However, a year-by-year analysis reveals
that the 28X figure is a reversal of a trend over the past four years where rural
health expenditures had reached a low of 17.51 in 1992/93 due to the completion
of the rural health infrastructure construction program.   Expenditures on
hospitals and urban primary services combined would increase slightly from 25X
to 28X of the total, while there would be a noticeable decline in the share of
human resource development from 251 to 171.  The latter reflects the near
completion of medical school infrastructure development that dominated the past
two decades. Thus, in general, the preliminary broad functional distribution of
health development expenditures under the Eighth Plan in the Punjab represents
a move in the right direction. Realization of this move will be monitored during
the scheduled annual reviews.
113. In BalcKhistan, total health development expenditures have fluctuated
during the past four years in real terms, from a decline of 381 between 1989/90-
1990/91 to almost double between 1991/92-1992/93. While this volatility reflects
the much smaller total figures involved compared to the Punjab, there is
nevertheless, an upward trend, which is expected to continue in the Plan period.
Looking at the categories of expenditure, the average development expenditure for
the past four years for preventive care and rural health were 181 and 471
respectively, but they are expected to decline during the Plan period (141 and
291 respectively). The sharp decline in the share of rural health care is due
to the tapering off of the rural health facility construction program. The share
of hospitals and urban primary services combined is expected to remain steady at
around 221 of development expenditures, having declined steadily from a high of
2J In Pakistan's budgetary classification, dbeloymot *zpenditure include outlays on repairs and
ts to goverrnwnt buildings which camot bm regirded as nor  maintenance; outlays on acquisition
of capital goods; salaries and other current expenditures incurred in respect to the exocution of now
projects up to project completion; and outlays on research and scholarships. Crrant zenditures
correspond to the usual definition, i. e. outlays on goods and services which are consum_d within the year,
except those associated with now projects before project completion.
a While the figure of O.GZ seems very low, it wa supplemented by some RJ. 100 million *mually for
preventive car for the Punjab from the federal investment budget. This would raiso the average for the
past four years to tX of health development expenditures (inclusive of federal expenditures), but it would
remin the lowest category of expenditure; hence, the increase anticipated in the Plan is indoed necessary.
Planed inputc to preventive care through this project would partly substitute for such federal fiDnacing.



- 38 -
57X in 1989/90. The share for human resource development will increase from the
past four years' average of 81 to 211 for the Plan period reflecting the
expansion in paramedical and in-service training.
114. Table 3.1 also shows how the expenditures under FHII will fit in the entire
health development programs of the two provinces. In the Pmujab, expenditures
under the proposed project would represent about 14.61 of the total program, but
their importance would be greater in the high-priority categories: 18X in
preventive care, 201 in rural health, 22.31 in human resource development and
only 51 in hospitals. In Balochistan, expenditures under the proposed project
would represent a much higher overall share of the total program than in the
Punjab, at about 401.  They would be a proportionally greater part of rural
health (521) and human resource development (721), and these two categories would
comprise about 761 of FHII expenditures in the province (Rs. 426 million out of
a total of Rs. 562 million).
Currnt KzDenditures
115. Unlike the case with development expenditures, which are projected by the
Government in a five year cycle in the context of the Plans, there are no
official projections of current expenditures other than in the annual budgets.
Table 3.2 presents a set of projections of current health expenditures for the
Punjab and Balochistan to 1998/99, taking 1992/93 as the benchmark year. These
projections are based on agreements that the Bank would expect to reach with the
Government of Pakistan on provincial current health expenditures, in the context
of the proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL).34/ The agreements would
be: (a) to at least maintain current expenditures on health services in real per
capita terms (implying an annual real rate of increase of 31 at the
minimum)35/; (b) to raise current expenditures on kbsic health services by at
least 21 in real per capita terms annually (implying an annual real rate of
increase of at least 5X); and (c) to maintain the share of the non-salary
component of current expenditure on basic health services (221 and 27X for the
Punjab and Balochistan, respectively).
116. Total current health expenditure for both the Punjab and Balochistan has
been growing in the past three years in real terms.  In the former province,
growth was 41, 91 and 221 for successive years after 1989/90 and in the latter
province, expenditures grew at 3.51, 141 and 16X after 1989/90.
117. As shown in Table 3.2, the agreements proposed to be reached in the context
of the PSAL imply that the share of basic health services as a proportion of
total current health expenditures in the Punjab would increase from 311 in
1992/93 to 351 in 1998/99; and in Balohisa, the corresponding increase would
be from 421 to 471. However, the projections in Table 3.2 represent the minimum
IV Theme agzrnmts would only apply to 1992/93 and 1993/94; however, they have been used here as the
basis for a more extendod projection in order to show the pattern of current health expendituror they tould
imply in the m*diu term.
JU/ This target was also stated in the Goverrment's Policy Fromfwork Paper for 1991/92-1993/94.



- 39 -
desirable levels of current health expenditures in the two provinces; if GDP
continues to grow at about 5-6X per year in real terms, as it has in the past
decade, it is expected that total current health expenditures would grow at a
rate that at least matches the growth in GDP, with current expenditure on basic
health services growing at an even higher rate.
118. A very rough estimate of the recurrent cost implications of health
development expenditures envisaged during the Eighth Plan period for the Punjab
suggests that the growth in current expenditures projected in Table 3.2 would be
insufficient.  The incremental recurrent costs of FHII imply that by 1998/99 (the
first year after project completion) about Rs. 152.5 million (in 1992/93 prices)
would have to be added to the current health budget of this province in order to
adequately sustain the activities started under the project. Since the project
represents only about 14.6X of the total Eighth Plan health development program
of the Punjab, a very rough estimate of the recurrent cost implications of the
entire program equals Rs. 1,045 million (Rs. 153 million/0.146). Compared to the
projected increase of total current health expenditure of Rs. 691 million shown
in Table 3.2 (Rs. 4,251 million - Rs. 3,560 million), a 'deficit of Rs. 354
million would be expected by 1989/99. This figure is probably on the high side,
since it is expected that the project would fund a higher proportion of software
activities than the total program, which would upwardly bias the above estimate
of current expenditures. An alternative method of calculating the 'deficit',
based on the assumption that the rest of the investment program at the end of the
Plan period is expected to generate about 70X35/ of that generated by the
project, produces a 'deficit' more in the order of Rs. 86 million at the end of
the project period. Thus, an annual real rate of growth higher than 31 would be
required. Project assurances have been developed which allow for this.
119. The growth of the development program under the Eighth Plan would not be
the only source of (desirable) growth of health current expenditure in the
period: even without any additions to the present health system in terms of
coverage and range of services, current expenditures on health would need to
increase over time on account of heavier use of existing facilities due to the
current budget backlog" affecting many of these facilities at present levels of
utilization.   Thus an annual real rate of growth of total current health
expenditure of 3X seems insufficient for Punjab. What would be an adequate rate
of growth? This question cannot be answered with the available information; for
illustrative purposes, however, if total current health expenditure in the Punjab
grew at an annual rate of 61, the total increase over the period up to 1998/99
would be equal to Rs. 1,490 million, which is likely to be closer to an adequate
level than that resulting from 31 annual growth.
120.  In Balochistan the situation is not as stark.   The annual incremental
recurrent costs resulting from FHII in 1998/99 would amount to Rs. 57 million (in
1992/93 prices); suggesting that the recurrent cost implications of the entire
development program by that year are of the order of Rs. 144 million, which is
close to the total current health expenditures projected in Table 3.2 of Rs. 136
million.   Using the alternative method mentioned above, the 701 assumption
I The 701 assumptioa is estimtod from the investmnt prosrm of the Kiahth Plan.



- 40 -
produces a 'surplus' of Rs. 18 million. Hence, in contrast to the Punjab, the
funding requirements for the current budget 'backlog in Balochistan are less
significant.
121. In addition to the government budgets, Zakat funds provide a safety net for
providing medicines and consumable supplies to the poor. In 1989/90 Zakat funds
amounted to Rs. 37 million and Rs. 3 million for the Punjab and Balochistan
respectively, and they have doubled in 1991/92. Also, policy measures likely to
be pursued through the SAP for tertiary care facilities, including raising
additional resources through levying user charges and making selected facilities
more autonomous, would release resources which could be allocated to primary
care.
122. The incremental recurrent costs of the program have been minimized through
careful program design and through the focus on better utilization of past
investments, especially  in  infrastructure.   However, the  estimated  total
incremental costs are such that increases in the total budget, combined with some
modest reallocations during the program period toward rural health and preventive
programs and away from hospital-related expenditures, would be required. This
would be monitored as part of the annual review of the program.
D. Prolect Costs and Financina
123. The total capital investment cost of the five year health programs in
Balochistan and the Punjab is estimated at US$520.0 million. The proposed IDA
Credit will partly finance priority sub-programs with a total cost of US$114.0
million  equivalent.    Base  costs  are  calculated  at US$94.8  million  and
contingencies at US$19.2 million. Physical contingencies represent US$7.3
million.  Price contingencies37/ (US$11.9 million) reflect Bank guidelines on
expected local and international price increases. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$49.7 million or 44X of total project costs. Costs include
incremental recurrent expenditure.   A summary of costs by components and
categories of expenditure is presented below; details are given in Annex 7.
I International prico incroegos for each project year (July 1 - June 30) are sot at: 3.91 for 93/94,
3.851 for 94/95, md 3.81 subsoquently. Local price increuse are set at 8.OS for 93/94 and 6.01
subsequently.



- 41 -
TABLE 3.3: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENTS
Rs million             US s million
LOCAL FOREIN TOTAL     LOCAL FORBON TOTAL  BASE FOaE
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SElNcE8 632.5  684.7 1,317.3  25.3  27.4  52.7  56%  52%
STAFF DEVELOPMSf   521.8  140.1  662.0     20.9   5.6  26.5  26%  21%
MANABABI DEVELOPMENT  140.1  1368.  278.9   5.6   5.6  11.2  12%  50%
FEDERAL COPONT     59.9  51.0  110.8        2.4   2.0  4.4   5%  46%
TOTAL BASENE COSTS   1,354.3  1,014.7 2,368.9  54.2  40.6  94.8  100%  43%
PHYSiAL CONflWENCIES  97.7  84.9  182.6    3.9   3.4  7.3  8%  46%
PRICECONTINGENCIES    155.0  142.5  297.5  6.2   5.7  11.9  13%  48%
TOTAL PRDJECTCOSTS    1,607.0  1,242.1 2,849.0  64.3  49.7 114.0  120%  44%
Note In Oftl and bsequw poct cs and llnun  ttabie dmd PoWmmay not add to totat du to roundin.
124. Basis of Cost Estimates. The costs of civil works are based on reviews of
recently awarded contracts in Balochistan and the Punjab for similar construction
and are about Rs. 370 per square foot. Estimates are based on final designs for
standardized works and on preliminary designs for other types of construction.
Costs of equipment, furniture, transport and supplies are based on analyses of
requirements for the project and derive from local market prices or CIF unit
prices, both adjusted to include local transportation and installation,
supplemented by recent experience of purchasing similar goods in Balochistan and
the Punjab. Costs of production of education materials, training, local and
expatriate consultants, applied research and other services reflect local or
international prices as applicable. Overseas fellowships are based on averaged
United Nations rates for training in Europe and North America. Costs of salaries
and allowances, including training allowances, are based on current Government
rates. Costs are based on June 1992 prices and include adjustments for price and
foreign exchange rate changes between project appraisal and negotiations.
125.  Customs Dutes and Taxes.  Costs include an estimated US$14.5 million in
direct and indirect taxes and duties on civil works, goods and services, to be
financed by the Government.
126.  Continaency allowances.  Physical contingencies are estimated at lOX for
civil works, equipment, furniture, training, operating costs, education
materials, contraceptives and medicines and supplies, and 51 for vehicles,
technical assistance and studies.   Overall, they total US$7.3 million for
investment and recurrent costs and represent 7.71 of baseline costs or 6.4X of
total costs. Price contingencies by the end of implementation are estimated at
US$11.9 million on base cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies
represent 20.31 of the base cost.



PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT BASE COSTS
TABLE 3.4: COMPONENTS AND CATEGORIES OF EXPENDITURE
US $ million                        PROVINCIAL                STAFF              MANAGEMENT                TOTAL
HEALTH SERVICES         DEVELOPMENT            DEVELOPMENT
Punjab Baloch. Total   Punjab Baloch. Total  Punjab Baloch. Total  Punjab Baloch. Federal  Total    %
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
- CIVILWORKS                      1.9    2.4   4.3       7.0    2.2   9.2      0.0    0.0   0.0       8.9;    as: 4.6    0.5   141   15%
- EQUIPMENT                      13.9    2.2  16.0       1.3    0.5   1.8      1.8    0.2   2.0      16g9    2.9   0.31  201   21%
- FURNITURE                       0.0    0.1   0.1       1.0    0.2   1.3      0.0    0.0   0.0       1.1    0.4A    100  1:1.5   2%
- VEHICLES                        5.1    1.7   6.8       0.9    1.1   2.0      0.6    0.1   0.8       86- 3.0    0.3    8.8  10%
- TRAINING                        0.3    0.2   0.5       0.7    0.2   0.8      0.8    0.9   1.7      I1 .8:   1.2  05       3.5   4%
-TA                               1.5    0.4   1.9       1.2    0.4   1.6      2.6    1.3   3.9       53    t2.2 0.8    8.1    9%
- STUDIES                         0.9    0.5   1.4       0.0    0.0   0.0      0.1    0.1   0.2        1.04 -t0.6     .     30    3%
- HEALTH EDUC. MATERIALS          1.1    0.2   1.3       0.0    0.2   0.2      0.3    0.0   0.3      1.4:  0.5    0.0    1.8   2%
- CONTRACEPTIVES                  5.3    0.1   5.4       0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0       5.3    0.1        ;          :00 54    6%
SUBTOTALINVESTMG4TCOSTS    29.9    7.9  37.8           12.2    4.8  17.0      6.2    2.7   8.       48.8 15.4 47   67.4&  71%
II.INCR. OPERSANG COS1S
- SALARIES/ALLOWANCES             2.3    0.4   2.7       4.7    2.6   7.2      0.5    0.3   0.8       7.5    3.3   0.5    11    12%
- DRUGS/MATERIALS/SUPPLES         8.6    2.1  10.7       0.0    0.0   0.0      0.2    0.0   0.2         T,   21   0     10*   11%
--MEDICINES                      6.4    1.8   8.2       0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0       8.4    1.      048.2         9%
-- NUTRON                        1.4    0.1   1.5       0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0    0.0   0.0       .4  0..1 0.0.    1..   2%
- OPERATING COSTS                 1.3    0.2   1.5       1.2    1.1   2.3      0.9    0.4   1.3       8.3    1.7  0.2    5         6%
-- VEHICLES                      0.4    0.1   0.5       0.4    0.5   1.0      0.3    0.1   0.4       1g2 ;07    0        -1  0    2%
--PROJECT COORDINATION           0.0    0.0   0.0       0.0    0.0   0.0      0.1    0.2   0.3      0.1          - 00   0.3>   0%
SUBTOTAL INC. OPERATING COST  12.2    2.7  14.9         5.8    3.7   9.5      1.5    0.7   2.2    19.8    - 1; 0.7   27.4   29%
TOTAL BASE COSTS  4211                                                         1210501  679 22            r.  94    100%
PHIYSICALCONTINGENCIES             027.3   8%
PRICE CONTNGENCIES  .5.8        .5..            .       *    80       08     04    .         .        7     .      1    13%
TOTALPROJECTCOSTS
11/04/92



- 43 -
127.  Foreign exchznge conMonent.  The foreign exchange component is US$49.7
million including contingencies, or 44X of total project costs.  It includes
indirect foreign cost, and is estimated as follows: 9X for civil works; 65X for
equipment; 501 for vehicles; 151 for furniture; 751 for foreign consultant
services; 1001 for overseas fellowships; 100X for contraceptives; 51 for local
technical assistance; 501 for medicines and 40X for other supplies; 201 for
education materials; and 50X for operating costs (including vehicles).  These
percentages are based on the expectation that: (i) all civil works contracts
would be awarded to local firms and most building materials would be produced
locally; (ii) 751 of medical equipment and 501 of other equipment and vehicles
would be imported; and (iii) 851 of furniture would be purchased locally.
128. Incremental recurrent costs generated by project implementation during the
five-year period (including contingencies) are estimated at US$33.0 million, of
which US$13.0 million (39X) is for salaries and allowances, US$13.5 million (411)
is for medicines and supplies, and US$6.5 million (201) is for other incremental
recurrent expenses such as consumable education materials and vehicle operating
costs.   The estimated annual incremental recurrent cost for financial year
1998/99 is US$2. 3 million and US$6.1 million respectively for Balochistan and the
Punjab, or about 8.81 and 4.31 of their 1992/93 recurrent budgets. Recurrent
costs and budgets were discussed further above (see para. 115).
129. Flow of funds. The donor funds for the provincial sub-programs will be
channelled through the standard government system for large externally financed
development projects, with the balance for the provincial governments'
contributions coming from the provincial development programs. The provinces
will make funds available as a grant to the four urban local bodies and to the
NGOs involved. The small federal component will be wholly budgeted through the
federal development program with funds passed on as grants to the NGOs, local
bodies and research organizations involved.
130. Prolect financing. The total project cost of US$114.0 million equivalent
will be financed by the Government, IDA, the British Overseas Development
Administration (ODA), and the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW). The
proposed IDA credit of US$48.0 million equivalent will finance about 421 of total
project cost including 501 of the local costs (US$32.2 million). Under parallel
arrangements, (a) ODA will finance US$12.2 million equivalent mainly for
technical assistance in Balochistan and the Punjab, and part of the Lahore urban
health services subcomponent; and (b) Germany will finance US$22.2 million
equivalent for investment costs for equipment in both provinces plus the NGO
subcomponents. Together, the IDA credit and the parallel financing will cover
1001 of the foreign exchange component (US$49.7 million) and 511 of the local
costs (US$32.8 million).  The Government will finance the balance of project
costs, including taxes and duties (US$31.6 million). The costs include up to
US$0.5 million for retroactively financed activities from July 1992 (appraisal)
to meet the cost of equipment, vehicles, training, project coordination and
technical assistance needed for a timely project start. This will enable the
executing agencies to finalize technical assistance agreements, prepare



- 44 -
engineering surveys for the first year construction program and train key staff.
The proposed financing plan is shown below.
Table 3.5.  FINANCING PLAN (US$ Million)
X
IDA
Category of Expenditure        Gov't   IDA   Germany    UK      Total   Financing
Civil works                     2.0    12.2     2.2      0.5    16.9        72
Equipment                       5.1     1.0    17.5      1.4    25.0         4
Furniture                       0.3     1.4     0.1      -       1.8        78
Vehicles                        4.0     7.5     0.0      0.1    11.6        65
Tech. Assistance                -       2.0     0.9      6.4     9.3        22
Training/Educ. Mats/F.ships    0.3      6.2     0.8      2.4     9.7        64
Contraceptives                  -       6.7     -        -       6.7       100
Salaries                        6.6     5.4     0.3      0.0    12.3        44
Medicines/supplies              7.3     4.4     0.4      1.4    13.5        33
Op. Costs                       6.0     -        -       0.0     6.0         -
Project Coordination            -       1.2     -        -       1.2       100
Total                          31.6    48.0    22.2    12.2   114.0         42
C. Prolect Nanaaement and Imnlementation3'/
131. With the exception of federal level activities, the program (including the
priority sub-prograws financed by the project) will be implemented by line
agencies of the Balochistan and the Punjab provincial governments, reinforced
with  technical assistance and selected institutional modifications.    The
principal implementing agencies will be the provincial Departments of Health.
At the most senior level, to provide a more structured forum than presently
exists for interdepartmental and inter-organization coordination and to guide
program implementation, provincial program Steering Co.sittees have been
established in Balochistan and the Punjab. Working level provincial technical
com ittees will also be established that will meet frequently and address
operational matters.
132. In each province, the provincial Department of Health will be responsible
for implementing the program. The line managers in the DOH will be responsible
for all program implementation within their respective areas of responsibility,
including any project supported sub-programs. To strengthen the existing line
management, additional resources will be made available especially to assist
with:  (a) ensuring that budgets, accounts, audits, bidding, procurement and
disbursement operations are conducted in accordance with donor requirements;
(b) monitoring compliance with the Credit Agreement and other donor agreements;
/ Further details are given in Annex 6.



- 45 -
(c) monitoring program progress including the construction activities implemented
by the Department of Communications and Works; and (d) ensuring that new
activities for the DOH (such as management development) begin and that the
associated institutional structure is in place.    The Punjab government has
established a special directorate for coordinating the execution of external
assistance391 under the guidance of an Executive Director.   Balochistan is
making similar arrangements.    The staff directly concerned with project
activities include a Director, Deputy Director, and support personnel. Project
Directors and some staff have already been appointed and transferred-in; the
remainder will be appointed as project work increases during 1993.   In
Balochistan, the appointment of the Project Director and Deputy Project Director
and any subsequent replacements will be subject to the no objection of the
Additional Chief Secretary. A diagram summarizing the provincial implementation
arrangements is at Chart 2.
133. Under the overall guidance of the provincial Director General of Health
Services, the Deputy Director for Basic Health Services (DDBHS) has overall
responsibility for Rrimary health services enacting the programs in close
collaboration with the other Deputy Directors concerned, and with the Inspectress
of Health Services4*0  (maternal and child health and family planning) (in the
Puniab, her senior staff have recently been strengthened). In-service training
and management development will be mainly implemented through the Provincial
Health Development Centre (PHDC) and the associated District Health Development
Centres (DHDC).411 The urban health subcomponents will be implemented by the
head of the medical department of each of the Metropolitan/Municipal Corporations
(MC). The NGOs concerned will implement their respective subcomponents, with an
existing senior officer having responsibility for coordination. To ensure that
implementation starts on schedule, project launch workshops will be held
facilitated by IDA and the cooperating donors.    Detailed implementation
arrangements for the three provincial components are given in Annex 6.
134. Key technical support for the PHDC, DHDCs, and for project implementation
generally will be provided by local academic institutions combined with
international support.  This will consist of technical advice and long-term
support to crucial areas for project implementation, particularly the (a)
management development and (b) staff development activities of the PHDCs and the
technical underpinning for the health services development component. Subjects
to be addressed include management information systems, training of trainers,
curricula development, project planning, health education, and community
involvement. In the Punjab, the Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS)
and the Lahore College of Community Medicine,, supported by an international
institution, will provide technical assistance in training, health services and
IJV Typically, there are only 2-4 major externally financed projects under implementation in one
province.
iD Balochi.tan also has a Deputy Director for MHE; she nd the Inspectreos would bo jointly
responsible. Throughout this report, references to the Balochistan Inspectrems of Hoalth Services should be
read as including the Doputy Director for MIC.
i1 At the division level in DBlochistan.



- 46 -
management development. In Balochistan, Bolan Medical College (Quetta), LUMS,
supported by an international institution and an NGO, will provide similar
services. (About 70% of the technical assistance requirements will be financed
by ODA.) Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that: (a) arrangements
with local universities and non-governmental organizations for obtaining
technical support for the project by the provinces vill begin during the first
project year and continue throughout the project; (b) agreements for the
provision of the main technical assistance consultants for management and
training development services vill be signed by March 1994; and (c) IDA-financed
consultants will be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines dated August
1981.
135. The implementation of the small federal level component will be the
responsibility of: (a) for the Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT), where health
services are currently the responsibility of three organizations (the Ministry
of Health (MOH), the Capital Development Authority and the Islamabad
Administration), the subcomponent will be coordinated by an FHII Director and
staff who will report to a coordinating committee composed of representatives of
the three organizations.  By the third project year, it is intended that a
unified system of health services for the ICT will be in-place under the
leadership of the MOH; (b) the health systems research subcomponent will be
coordinated by the same Project Director and staff, with MOH taking the lead but
working closely with the Pakistan Medical Research Council, with research schemes
approved through a system of national and provincial research committees; and (c)
the NGO project in Islamabad will be implemented similarly to the provincial NGO
projects but under the auspices of the MOH.
136. In accordance with standard government practice in Pakistan, the respective
Balochistan and Punjab Departments of Communications and Works (C&W) will be
responsible for the civil works aspects of the programs (including FHII) to be
implemented by the two provincial governments including site surveys, preparation
of line plans, working drawings, and specifications and tender documents. Once
contracts are awarded, C&W will provide site supervision and progress reports.
The supervision costs, including transport and supplementary staff where
necessary, will be borne by the program (including project financed sub-
programs).   Both provincial C&W departments have  the necessary  technical
competence to implement the modest level of civil works financed through the
project. The MCs will follow their standard procedures, which are very similar
to those of the provincial governments. NGOs will implement their respective
subcomponents, assisted by consultants for major construction. In Islamabad, the
Capital Development Authority will undertake the functions analogous to the
provincial C&Ws. Further details on project construction are given in Annex 6.
137. Almost all construction will be at existing DOH, MC or NGO owned locations.
Proof of ownership of sites for all major new construction including the public
health laboratory in Quetta, the two new public health schools in the Punjab and
the two PHDCs has been provided, as well as for the first two years construction
program of DHDCs.   Proof of ownership of sites for the two NGO maternity
hospitals and schools and for the NGO public health school has also been
provided. Any funds required for the acquisition of further DHDC sites will be



- 47 -
provided through the provincial budgets.  Line plans have been prepared and
reviewed by IDA for all major new construction. Assurances vere obtained during
Negotiations that all remaining sites will be acquired and available by June
1995.
138. Nonitorina and evaluation. The provincial DOHs will monitor and report
independently every six months, typically in February and August, to IDA and the
cooperating donors on project progress. The provincial reports will be based on
reports from the districts and from the provincial departments and directorates
concerned, in addition to regular monitoring. Reporting will be structured for
each major project financed intervention with routine monitoring limited to
indicators of inputs, activities and resultant outputs; the main indicators that
will be used are summarized in Annex 3.   Implementation problems will be
highlighted, together with proposed solutions. DOH monitoring and evaluation
capabilities will be substantially strengthened through the development of the
Management Information System and the establishment of the Research, Monitoring
and Evaluation Units in the PHDCs and DHDCs. A number of special evaluation
studies are planned including, for example, a study of the impact of improved
health services in the Punjab and of service quality in Balochistan. Technical
assistance will support program and project monitoring. A joint government, IDA
and cooperating donor mid-term review of the project will be held in early 1996.
The provincial Planning and Development Departments will also review progress.
A Project Completion Report will be prepared. Assurances were obtained during
Negotiations that:  (a) semi-annual progress reports will be prepared by the
Departments of Health and submitted to IDA; (b) a joint government and IDA mid-
term review will be held before May 1996; and (c) a Project Completion Report
will be submitted by the governments to IDA within six months of the closing date
of the project.
139. Development projects in Pakistan must be presented to the approving
government authorities in a prescribed detailed format, known as a PC-1.  A
project such as this does not fit easily into the PC-1 format since the more
programmatic approach and the implementation of the many different small sub-
programs requires more flexibility than is typically permitted in a PC-1. Before
Negotiations, draft PC-ls for the project were prepared, reviewed to ensure that
they were satisfactory to IDA and approved by the provincial and federal421
governments. Approval of the project PC-ls by the Executive Committee of the
Federal Government's National Economic Council would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness.
140.  IDA SuRervision Requirements.  The project will require intensive IDA
supervision, particularly in the first years of operation, to help ensure that
project start-up and early implementation proceed as scheduled. Initial annual
supervision requirements are estimated to be 18 staff-weeks. A supervision plan
for the project is at Annex 11.
D By the Central Development Working Party.



- 48 -
D.  Procurement.
141. Procurement will be conducted separately for each province and the federal
level.  Procurement methods are summarized in Table 3.6 below.  The two C&W
Departments have the administrative capacity and experience to procure a variety
of small and medium sized construction contracts in both urban and remote rural
areas which comprise the project. Experience in both provinces has shown that
larger local contractors have not shown interest in bidding on small scattered
contracts scheduled at different times during project implementation. Therefore,
the civil works program will be procured as small individual contracts (average
contract size is estimated at US$50,000 equivalent) with groupings of contracts,
where geographic proximity and project scheduling permit, particularly for urban
areas, to encourage the participation of larger local contractors.
a. All contracts for clvll works financed by IDA, at an estimated total
cost of US$13.6 million, will be awarded through local competitive
bidding, in accordance with procedures which are acceptable to the
Association.   IDA's prior review will be required for the first
contract in each province and for all individual civil works contracts
exceeding US$200,000 (about eight contracts representing 33X of IDA
financed civil works); other contracts will be subject to post-award
reviews. About US$3.3 million of civil works contracts financed by KfW
and ODA will be awarded following KfW and ODA standard procedures.
b. Equipment is generally for medical purposes, and comprises small
clinical equipment, kits for paramedical staff, syringes and other
medical accessories which will be procured annually based on actual
needs. Specialized medical equipment will be procured internationally.
Medicines  and  consumable   supplies   generally  comprise  common
pharmaceuticals, reagents and micronutrients which will be procured
annually based on actual needs. To the extent practicable, contracts
for equlpment, furniture, medlclnes and contraceptlves financed by IDA
with an estimated aggregate value of US$14.4 million, will be grouped
to permit bulk procurement of at least US$200,000 equivalent.
Contracts estimated to cost more than US$200,000 will be awarded on the
basis of ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts of less
than US$200,000 each, not exceeding US$1.7 million in total, will be
awarded on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Items which
cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$50,000, which in
aggregate will not exceed US$1.2 million, will be procured using local
or international shopping. Medicines and minor medical equipment are
expected to be procured from UNICEF up to a total of US$5.3 million,
and contraceptives from UNFPA up to a total of US$6.7 million. About
US$25.9 million equivalent of contracts for equipment, furniture and
medicines, financed by KfW and ODA, wil.l be awarded following KfW and
ODA standard procedures (including equipment procured through UNICEF).
c. Contracts for vehicles financed by IDA, with an estimated aggregate
value of US$11.3 million, will be awarded on the basis of ICB.  In
addition, 12 vehicles (estimated total cost US$200,000) which are



- 49 -
required urgently to facilitate early project implementation will be
procured using local or international shopping. Vehicles financed by
KfW and ODA, with an estimated total value of US$0.1 million
equivalent, will be awarded following KfW and ODA standard procedures.
A domestic preference of 151, or the applicable duty, whichever is less, will be
given for locally manufactured items in evaluating bids for goods under ICB.
IDA's prior review will be required for individual contracts exceeding US$200,000
which will cover about 901 of the IDA financed procurement of goods in some 15
contracts; other contracts will be subject to selective post-award reviews.
142. Local and expatriate consultant services financed by IDA, expected to total
about US$2.0 million, will be contracted following Bank guidelines for the Use
of Consultants.   All technical assistance contracts financed by IDA will be
subject to IDA prior review.
143. The Pakistani local competitive bidding procedures are generally consistent
with the need for adequate competition and encouraging economy and efficiency in
the execution of the project. There are, however, a few provisions which require
strengthening, including:  (a) sufficient time for bid submission; (b) specifying
evaluation criteria to ensure that the lowest evaluated responsive bid wins; and
(c) bidding documents specifying clearly all factors to be used in bid
evaluation. Further details are given at Annex 8. Sample contracts for civil
works (local competitive bidding), goods (international competitive bidding) and
technical assistance have been prepared for each province and the federal level.
Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that procurement through local
competitive bidding will follow procedures acceptable to IDA.



- 50 -
Table 3.6. PROCUREMENT METHODS [US$ Million] *
Project Element         ICB     LCB        Otherb/     NIFc/   Total
Civil works             -       13.6          -           3.3       16.9
-      [12.2J         -        [-]        [12.2]
Equipment               -        0.5          0.8        23.7       25.0
-       [0.4]        [0.6]     [-]         [1.0]
Furniture               -         1.2         0.4         0.2        1.8
-       [1.1]        [0.3]     [-1         [1.4]
Vehicles               11.3       -           0.2         0.1       11.6
[7.4]     -           [0.1]     [-1         [7.5]
Tech. assistance        -         -           2.0         7.3        9.3
-        -           [2.0]     [-]         [2.0]
Training, Educ.         -         -           6.4         3.3        9.7
Matrls, Fellowships    -          -          [6.2]      [-]         [6.2]
Contraceptives          -         -           6.7/        -          6.7
-        -           [6.7]        -        [6.7]
Salaries                -         -          12.3         -        12.3
-        -           [5.4]       -         [5.4]
Medicines, Supplies    -          -           4.8d/       8.7       13.5
-        -           [4.4]     [-]         [4.4]
Operating Costs         -         -           -           6.0        6.0
Pr. Coordination        -         -           1.2         -         1.2
[1.2]                 [1.2]
Total cost             11.3     15.3         34.8        52.6     114.0
IDA financing          [7.4]   [13.7]       [26.9]      [-]       [48.0]
a/  Including contingencies.  Figures in parentheses represent IDA credit
financing.
b/  Other procurement methods include:  shopping, direct contracting and
consulting services engaged following Bank guidelines and salaries.
c/  Not IDA financed.  Includes financing by KfW, ODA and the government.
d/  About US$5.3 million (medicines and minor medical equipment) expected
to be procured through UNICEF.
e/  About US$6.7 million expected to be procured through UNFPA.



- 51 -
E. Disbursements. Accounts and Audits
144. Credit disbursements will finance: (a) 90% of the costs of civil works;
(b) for equipment, furniture, vehicles, medicines and supplies: 100% of foreign
expenditures of direct imports, 100% of ex-factory cost for locally manufactured
items procured through ICB, and 60% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally; (c) 100% of the cost net of taxes of local training, overseas
fellowships, technical assistance, and project coordination; and (d) 80% of total
incremental salaries up to a maximum disbursement of US$2.7 million, subsequently
60% of total incremental salaries up to a maximum cumulative disbursement of
US$4.4 million, and finally 40% of total incremental salaries up to a maximum
cumulative disbursement of US$5.4 million.
145. Disbursement against contracts for civil works and goods below US$200,000
all incremental salaries, fellowships and local training programs not undertaken
by contract, and project coordination will be made against itemized Statements
of Expenditure (SOE). Documentation supporting these SOEs will be retained by
the implementing agencies for review by IDA missions. All other expenditures
will be fully documented. In order to facilitate project implementation, the
governments will establish and maintain, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA, three Special Accounts in a commercial bank: one operated by the DOH in
each province and one by the MOH. After Project Effectiveness and upon receipt
of the required withdrawal application, IDA will make initial deposits equivalent
to US$0.8 million for Balochistan, US$2.0 million for the Punjab, and US$0.2
million for the federal level. These Accounts will cover all expenditures both
local and foreign of less than US$80,000 for Balochistan, US$200,000 for the
Punjab and US$20,000 for the federal level. Expenditures above these amounts
could be submitted directly to IDA for payment.
146. The proposed IDA Credit of US$48.0 million will be disbursed over six
years, which includes an additional 12 months to accommodate unforeseen delays
in implementation (see Disbursement Schedule in Annex 9). The current country
disbursement profile is seven years, but the six year period reflects faster
disbursements expected through following a more programmatic and flexible
approach, combined with the anticipated positive effects of the SAP on the
implementation of social sector projects generally. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by June 30, 1999.
147. Accounts and Audits. The Ministry and Departments of Health will maintain
separate accounts and records for project expenditure including records of the
transactions of the Special Accounts and of disbursements made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), in accordance with generally accepted
accounting standards and the July 8, 1992 "Guidelines on Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects financed by the World Bank" (the Accounting and Audit
Guidelines). Project Accounts and Special Account Statements will be prepared
annually for each province and the federal level to ensure a fair presentation
of the project's financial performance and position, disclosing all funds
provided by government, IDA and the cooperating donors, as well as expenditure
incurred during the year, in accordance with the formats provided in Annex 10,
Tables B and C. These financial statements will be made available for auditing



- 52 -
purposes to independent auditors acceptable to IDA, within four months of the end
of each fiscal year. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that: (a)
independent auditors acceptable to IDA will be appointed in a timly manner to
undertake annual audits and to prepare audit reports of the Project Accounts,
Special Accounts and SOKs for each province and the federal level; and (b)
certified copies of the audited Project Accounts and the Special Account
Statements, together with the auditor's report and opinion thereon, and a
certified copy of the auditors report and opinion on SOKs will be provided to IDA
within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
IV. ENEFITS AND RISKS
148. The project will help the governments achieve their objective of improving
the health status of the population generally but with a special emphasis on high
risk and under-privileged sections of the comaunity.  Services will be of a
higher quality, more available and of increased effectiveness.   Women will
benefit particularly through improved maternal health services, especially ante-
and post-natal care including increased availability of family planning services,
and children particularly through strengthened communicable disease control.
With present levels of facility coverage, by project completion, the health
services available to some 70-80X of the total population of the two provinces
(including 16 million women of childbearing age) will improve. Service use is
expected to increase from present low levels, with a doubling to 20-251 of
pregnant women in service catchment areas receiving some prenatal care and,
similarly, a doubling in the proportion of deliveries supervised (further
indicators are included in Annex 3).  The government will benefit from the
various institutional development components, particularly the management,
planning and technical skill enhancement activities. These activities will also
pave the way for more ambitious objectives to be met through subsequent
investments.
149.  The project faces three main risks.  The most important is the limited
implementation capacity of the provincial DOHs. This risk is addressed through
having a substantial management strengthening component, the more programmatic
approach allowing greater implementation flexibility than in a conventional
project, simplifying the project design as far as is consistent with maintaining
technical standards, incorporating experience from other similar projects, and
providing  for  technical  assistance  in  key  areas.    The  second  is  that
strengthening public health systems and particularly focusing on women's health
problems may not receive sufficient priority from a male dominated, traditionally
orientated health system, including poor implementation of the project family
planning activities due to the administrative separation between health and
population; this risk is minimized through fostering strong commitment to the
project from the senior officials concerned in project preparation, the project
reinforcing and financing the implementation of key parts of the governments'
primary health and maternal/child care policy, taking special steps to increase
the involvement of women in service delivery, the involvement of local
institutional support, and the establishment of coordination mechanisms.
Finally, as the government's normal PC-1 procedures are not well adapted to the



- 53 -
sectoral approach of this operation, there is the risk that those procedures will
interfere with proper implementation of the project; this risk has been minimized
by the inclusion of the maximum flexibility permitted by government rules in the
PC-is for this project, and by the requirement of annual reviews which will
induce changes in the PC-ls when needed.
V. A_R_NTS REACD AND RCI               ions
150. During Negotiations, the Federal and Provincial Governments as appropriate
provided assurances that:
a. an official statement of health sector policy, strategy and priorities
will be prepared for the two provinces, discussed with IDA and issued
by December 1993 (para. 57);
b. by March 31 of each year each province, with IDA and the cooperating
donors, will: (a) review the program and project implementation for
the past fiscal year; (b) review and agree the schedules and planned
development budgetary allocations for the program and sub-program
implementation for the coming fiscal year; and (c) agree planned
overall recurrent budgetary allocations which will include this IDA
project and other assistance for the coming fiscal year.   These
agreements will be reflected in the budget proposal for each fiscal
year. Assurances were also obtained that each province will provide
sufficient development and recurrent funding to primary and rural
health services throughout the program; that the recurrent health
budget proposal will reflect the real rate of growth of GDP; and that
preference for the allocation of additional recurrent resources will be
given to basic health services and non-salary items.  The federal
government, IDA and the cooperating donors will also review annually
the funds required for carrying out both the provincial programs and
the federal activities (para. 60);
c. essential drugs lists will be approved by the Balochistan and Punjab
Departments of Health by July 1994 and introduced by December 1994
(para. 73);
d. an in-depth study for analyzing and making recommendations on the
administrative and staffing implications of the proposed reorganization
of the communicable disease control program will be completed by July
1994, necessary measures agreed with IDA by December 1994, and
implementation started by July 1995 (para. 75);
e. in advance of the phasing of overall project implementation by
districts, about half of the government health facilities in
Balochistan and the Punjab will offer family planning services by
December 1994 and all such facilities will do so by July 1996 (para.
77);



- 54 -
f. the provincial staff development teams, which will be responsible for
developing the provincial in-service training programs, will be
established and adequately staffed by December 1993 (para. 87);
g. a study of the financial and non-financial incentives and service
conditions of female paramedical staff, both during training and
subsequent employment, will be conducted for each province by July
1994, necessary measures agreed with IDA and implementation started by
December 1994. These reviews will take account of the similar work in
progress under the Family Health project in NWFP and Sindh (para. 91);
h. (a) at least 75 percent of the professional staff of the Provincial
Health Development Centres will be recruited or transferred in by the
end of December 1993 with the Centres being fully staffed by December
1994; and (b) that at least 75 percent of the professional staff for
the District Health Development Centres will be recruited or
transferred in by the end of the first year in which they are scheduled
to begin operations with the balance appointed during the second year
of operation (para. 95);
i. (a) powers will be delegated to District Health Officers by June 1994
to hire, transfer and promote staff up to Basic Pay Scale 12 in their
districts, and (b) existing levels of financial delegation for
operating expenditures will be implemented (para. 100);
J. (a) arrangements with local universities and non-governmental
organizations for obtaining technical support for the project by the
provinces will begin during the first project year and continue
throughout the project; (b) agreements for the provision of the main
technical  assistance  consultants  for  management  and  training
development services will be signed by March 1994; and (c) IDA-financed
consultants will be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines dated
August 1981 (para. 134);
k. all remaining sites will be acquired and available by June 1995 (para.
137);
1. (a) semi-annual progress reports will be prepared by the Departments of
Health and submitted to IDA; (b) a joint government and IDA mid-term
review will be held before May 1996; and (c) a Project Completion
Report will be submitted by the governments to IDA within six months of
the closing date of the project (para. 138);
m. procurement through local competitive bidding will follow procedures
acceptable to IDA (para. 143); and
n. (a) independent auditors acceptable to IDA will be appointed in a
timely manner to undertake annual audits and to prepare audit reports
of the Project Accounts, Special Accounts and SOEs for each province
and the federal level; and (b) certified copies of the audited Project
Accounts and the Special Account Statements, together with the



- 55 -
auditor's report and opinion thereon, and a certified copy of the
auditors report and opinion on SOEs will be provided to IDA within nine
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 147).
151. There is one special Condition of Credit Effectiveness: the approval of
the project PC-ls by the Executive Committee of the Federal Government's National
Economic Council (para. 139).
152.     Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable basis
for an IDA Credit of SDR 35.0 million equivalent to the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.






I
9                                                                                                 I



- 58 -
Annex 1
Table IA
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Balochistan Population Estimates (1990)
[thousandsj
{Province/ |                                      | Exp ct d  | | Children
District               Populatlon                   Ex|WRAt11 | hc  UnderS  |     Inlnt|
BALOCCHISTAN                  5,661       1,052            233:           892          16l$
Ouetta                   498          93              21            79            15
Pishin                   404          92              21            78           1S
Chagal                   157          29               7            25            5
Loralal                  506          96              21            80           1S
Zhob                     283          53              12            45             8
Klba Saifullah           189          38               8            30            a
Sibi                     128          24               6            20            4
Ztarat                    42           a               1             5             1
Kohlu                     93          17               4            15            3
DoraBugto                135          25               6            21             4
JafarAbad                301          56              13            48             S
Tamboo                   213          40               9            34             6
Kachhl                   308          74              17            63            12
Kdlat                    445          83              19            70            13
Khuzdar                  505          94              21            80            1S
Kharmn                   167          31               7            26             5
Lasbela               . 245           48              10            39             7
Turbat                   496          93              21            78            1 5
Gawadur                  147          27               6            23             4
Panigur                  210          30               9            33             6
j11 Women of reproductiw age.
Source: Department of Health, Balochiutan
Anxltla



- 59 -
Annex I
Table 19 
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Punjab Population Estimates (1991)
[thousandsl
Pro_ince/_iion                                     Expected ||Children_
Ditrict                                              B Popubtion |  WRA[1   |Undr    Infnt
PUNJAB                        00-,38    13,J0t         28          4.0U        1,880 --
Bahawalpur Bahawainagar        1,611       397           S0          207         56
Bahawaipur         2.028       448           90          335         a3
RY. Khan           2.471       u4            110         408         77
D.G. Khan   D.G.Khan           1.363       300            so         224         42
Layyah               025       204            41         153         20
Muzaffargarh       2.150       476           90          357         67
Rajanpur             900       201            41         150         28
Faisalabad  Falealbad          4,040       874           176         a68         123
Jhang              2,545       557           112         417          78
T.T. Slngh         1,183       254            51         190          36
Gujranwalb  Gujranwalb         3.546       770           157         5S3         110
Guirat             2,698       5a           I118         438          82
Sialkot            3,168       a8"           138         514          97
Lahore     Kasur               2,006       400            so         330         62
Lahore             4,973      1,000          222         823         158
Okara              2.005       441            as         330          62
Sheikhupura        2.736       549           121         44           84
Multan      Khanawal           1,789       302            70         293          58
Multan             3,623       707           161         506         112
Sahlwal            2,960       684           132         480          92
Veharl             1,749       384            77         267          54
Rawalpindi  Attock             1.036       228            48         160          32
Chakwal              883       191            38         143          27
Jhelum               747       161            32         121          23
Rawalpindi         2,642       577           11e         432          81
Sargodha   Bhakkar               913       201            41         150          28
Khushab              771       165            34         126          26
Mianwall             mee       1S8            3S         142          27
Swoodha            2,375       818           105         388          73
j11 Women of repoductive age.
Source: Deputment of Heth, Punjab
Anx1t1b



- 60 -
Annex 1
Table 2A
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Incidence of Endemic Diseases
by Province and District (1990) II
i abri 121
[Province/          |F| populadw        Slide PouitMty      Tubeoulods 131
| DiZbt       |  | ~~in 'Ooos         Rate             NO NofdC_ j
SALOCHITAN                    BtI#Wt
QueS.                  406               16.02             36.l2
Pishin                 494                4.25              4,300
Chegal                 167                0.06              2.300
Lore                   50w                2.29              3.00
Zhob                   283                6.12               3,160
Kilbs Seilulbh         180                0.82                 141
Sibi                   128                2.27                746
zireat                  42                 1.80                141
Kohlu                   #3                 n.a               2,001
Demr eBgi              135                 n.a                968
Jeir Abed              301                5.75               1.677
Tamboo                 213                3.76                 n.a
Kichhl                 36                 1."                3,007
Knbe                   446                2.07              18,7J0
Khuzdw                 606                3.90               4.M
Khwn                   167                4.28               3.506
Lasbea                 245                3.42               1.165
Turbot                 406                18.27              1.871
Gawedur                147               20.52               1.317
Panjgur                210                3.07               1.313
1II Figure   meinly hosptal basd an ae Oth ht to be pelel end under-estimlse.
121 P_naodium Fecipwum Is most Irquent but cloeely okwowed by Plamodium Vhl.
131 Includes both Indor end outoor cae. Figures re br 166.
141 Kila Selfulish igures we Wikided in Zhob while Slbi Includes the fgures for Zert.
Soure: DepwCmen of Health  elohlitan
AbxIt2A



- 61 -
Annex 1
Table 29
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Incidence of Endemic Diseases
by Province and District (1991) 111
ProvincAlDs lon                                            Malaria [21     TubFi cubii
Dibtrt                                  In '000          Sild Pooli"it     No. d Cae
Rsto
Sahawalpur          Bahawainagar                1.611              0.41           4.140
Bahawalpur                 2.023              1.33           11,711
R.Y. Khan                  2,471              0.70           10,641
Muzatlargsh         D.C. Khan                   1.363              3.11           5.776
Layyah                       925              1.41           4,264
Muzaffrgarh                2,160              6.07            6,407
Raj;npur                     900              1.60            2.334
Faislabad           Fulmlkbad                   4,046              0.50          52,321
Jhng                       2,545              0.73           25,06
T.T. Singh                 1,1U3              0.50            4,100
Guiranwala          OuJranwala                  3,546              1.20          13,363
Guirat                     2,060              0.78           20,347
Slkot                      3.163               1.00          23.416
Lahore             IKaur                        2,006              0.36           2,934
'*QF*                      4.073               0.29         122.343
Okara                      2,006              0.53            3,440
Sh.lkhupura                2,736              2.03           12,026
Multan               hanewal                    1.780              0.34           2,303
Mulbn                      3.623               0.53          16,644
Sahlwal                    2,060               0.37          11,786
Veharl                     1,740              0.16            3,60)
Rawalpindi          Attock                      1,030              0.54           15,730
ChAcwal                      an                0.45           86.06
Jh.lum                       747               0.41           3.673
awupindi                   2,642              0.65           72.621
Srgodha             Bhalckr                       013              0.40            2.700
Khushab                      771              0.70            2.322
Mialwall                     661               2.06           4.072
Sugodha                    2,376               1.36           9,370
11 FIgures  e mainly hop based and  e thought to be patl nd under-e_tirmnas.
121 Plasmodium Falolpaum Is modt fquent but closely followed by Plwnodkwm Viva.
Soure: Depatnwt of Health, Pun jab
Anx1t2



- 62 -
Annex 1
Table 3
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APRAISAL REPORT
Estimates of Main Causes of Child
Deaths in Pakistan (1986)
Deaths|
Diarrhea] Disease                                         313.400
Neonatal Tetanus                                          100.500
Acute Respiratory Infctions                                30,000
Majaria                                                    50,000
Mesaes                                                     35.500
Diphtera                                                   14.00
TB/Poiko/Prtusils                                          12.200
Others                                                     74.000
ToW                                                     s..0
Source: Suaton Analysis of Children an Women in Paisan, UNICEF. 196.
Anx1t3



- 63 -
Annex 1
Table 4
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Regional Health and Social Indices (1990)
Under 5      Infont          f          %  f Under 5               Femal       PrImary-8chool
Modlity     MoalIty    Expectancy      with modJeevere             Uttracy    Enrollment Ratio
Rato        Rt       [ tBrl            underweight              R[te            Fema1I
PAKISTAN                   18         104            aS                S2/10                 21                  28
BANGLADESH                 1S0         114            52                66/27                 22                  64
INDIA                      142          94            So                 61/0                 34                  U3
CHINA                       42          30            70                 2113                  62                107
SRI LANKA                   38          26            71                 38U                  S4                 105
iII Figures are  r 191/089 (groe)
Source: The State of th World's Children, UNICEF, Oxford Universty Prsc, 1902.
Anx1t4



- 64 -
Annex 1
Table 5
PAKISTAN
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Public Sector Health Manpower by Province (1989)
PUNJAB             BALOCHI1TAN              WFPTOTAL [II
|male      Female      maleu     F  m  |   Mub    F*mi   | 1              Fb|W       M *   Femais  ALL|
A. Trained Health Cwe Staff
Mod"ca Offioe.
H tMona                             124         4          e1          6        28         0       26          4       471     tS1    484
MedloadSpecidite                    161        17         101          7       123        21       611       119       8*6    104    low5
Medlou Offimer (GP)                21U8       48          842        103      1343      239       32U        918     731s   $746   uWit
House Otffe                         873       200         126         16       331        20       a6        341      2t14    6
8ub-Total                   3146       679         630        130      1826       310      4803      1362    10W4   3601  -86_ 
Dents                                   41        21          33          1       104         6       132         7       310    IS      641
Phnacriet                                8         2          11          0         8         0 1                 I        36      *       *
Healh Educao                             8         2           6          0         0         0         6         0        2       2       1-
Nursn
Num  Mnnapr                           0       119           3         29         1        14         0        13         4    1       110
NumeTutu                              0        70           0          3         0        1         0        *2         4    1*       let
SuaWhe  Nurse                         0      3603          36        22         26  2 6e             0      1020       -     6. 0
NursfMfwle                            0       117           0         20         0        66         0       336         0    801     65
Sub-Tota                       0      3617          38        278        26       773         0      1460        86  8526
Lady Health Vistwo,
LHVM uag                              0         1           0          1         0         0         0         2         0      4        *
LHVYlneutou/Tur                       0        14           0          3         0         6         0         6         0     61      01
LHYV                                  0      164            0        140         0       386         0       367         0   *64     *4
Sub-Towl                       0      1663           0        144         0       404         0       367         0 0   7&   3
MidWNo                                   0      720            0         21         0       630         0       335         * 7         1121
PubNo Health hnspe
PH Manapre                          216         0           7          4         0         0         0         1    0            S     36
Senlteykwpeot                       340         0          10          0        St         0        34         0       4*       0      4*
Sentwy Pao                          303         0         111          0       129         0        96         0                0      4-0
Sub-Total                    S69         0         126          4       165         0       130         1      1806       6   18
Drug kwpsck-                             7         0           6          0         9         0        20         0        41      0       41:
Pvrurdb. lTuto                        2         1           t 6                 10         0        29         S       117       9 -
M.dlUH Technlne                     103        19          90         32       m1         71       439        U       1        186    1611
Phurwmacy At9t                       M          3         68           0      12B6         3      1067         0      6         4    3886
X-:   TwthnWl                       101         0          79          0       126         0        148         0      860       *     $ -4
O. Th.aleTohnbmn                    22                     29          0       III         0        172         0       640    1       348
Laborary Thnidun                    39t         6          94          0       273         0                   Is 16  1066      I     18f, 77
P     S Im o~,Mshtmit               262         3           1          0         0         0         0         0      -  2             SW
Lap ooy To.hnloln                     0         0          11          0        10         0         3         0         W      8
T.. TachncanO                                   O 0  a      0          0        26                       0 0    0        36      0      2S
Va cnalou                           566         0         373         31       138          0     12t4        144 I"7    17           *63
Other                                s0         0          27          0       126        62        t4          3        6 2           64-
Sub-Totel                   2647        39        1293         63      3042       114      3494       228    1p47 - 448             -
TA's TraInd                              0      2494           0        434         0       ml          0       664       0    410*  4109
Trad. Prftbonorehikinu                  16         0           0          0         0         0        29       134        48    114      #
Homeopat                                 6         3           1          0         1         0         0         0         8      0       11
TOTAL                       GM 9111 140           23m        10790    am    t 1S            724      4467    8098   1718 0  1
.  ..f  .t- . '.,-,- . 4S... 4    .SA.,.A
B. Halth Ca  Suppert Staff
Nute"                                    8         1          19          0         0        27         0         U6        P      48     11
WdOrd Or                               SO1        0         217         76      1Ut          7      1667       4U       4661    14      *160
Ay-                                   1643       623          46        386         0       476         8       34t      1W   1  t 
othe                                   27          0         760        174         7         0      1371       126      24SW m
TOTAL                    2am         54   t 1O2              a"       18ow       8M       MW         oU n            4848
C. NonPT'ofese1onal H ht OtUR
Adm,Ynrou                               a3         0         264          3       NWA       WA         10         0 -               *     509
CA                                     M26         0         2t2          0       WA        WA        676        79    7          74
Houekeeping. dr   w, wathmen         2292          0         931          0       WA        WA         931S9    486               *6   4*64
Obnw                                  3226         0        1274         74       WA        WA       32          8 t92 M
TOTAL.                    am8           0        2761         77       WA        NWA      SIM1      l88w    14861 166$ 148
tAITOTAL                       tw         use.                    nm                  s4    ifO          84 10   461$ *~4   66
Il   r ludse 1eralladminlred rin.
I2  EkWdes Populotlon ufl   etaff.
Soureo: HeAi Mlpomr and Tralning Pion for P       ,tu. 1980 (unpubihed) wnd Proviln  Depates dl He*.
A1l



- 65 -
Annex 1
Table 6
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Number of Public Sector Sanctioned Posts, j1I
Selected Cadres (1990/91) 121
Aro|vno                 Doctors | P.ramodcaJ          Nurse     | LHVs    [           [i |   ]
Punjab                              12604            19O00       4022      2793         4486        1t
Uhloohlsn                            1304             28U         285       289          U37   -
NWFP                                3011              4126        731       700          720   -647
Shbdh                               7543              4034       1481       307          724      14836
Hemo Dduc                            a63               an3        357                3     7
AzadJnmmu&Ka*mk                      330              1831        8s         5U                  2.: :-.
Norten k2.                            90               774          5         ...         ...
IuaabedCapla                           25               48         ...        24          ...7
Teroy
FoederalyAminiuered                  303               000         80         8l                   1077
TribW Are  (FATAl                                                                                     . - 
Paidon Media        h                                    0                    ...         .. 0  57
council (PMFC
,-..-,..... ...
' "  . ' . - '. - .    -  .t.  Z .:   .  - :    '  '   .'  .   ....      .     . ...
111 Fedwral a  proAnca government only.
121 Fturve ibr edwrsl agenoes aro fo 10M0.
Souroe:  eman ibr Graf and Approprtions. Fder al Finance Dhbebn, and Provincial Finance Deperonts. IsoMI.



- 66 -
Annex 
Table 7
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Facility By Ownership (1991)
_WH_C/ ||Privt Clinic/n                  |
| Hoepsp|    Diepc  | | MCHc  | | ubHC | BHUcs|b| Dignostic Lab |
BALOCHISTAN III
Federal              Urban                      I
Rural
Provincial public    Urban         17          10           24           3          21
Rural        15         232           41          68          293
Othr state facilities 121  Urban    5           4            1
Rural         3          16
Local bodiec         Urban                      5
Rural
Prvate               Urban          a           2            2                                        247
Rural                     2                                                       5
U tJrban40   S Q 03      22           Z7           3           21.               247
Toti         40         24 -                314i 30
PUNJAB
Federal              Urban          1          12            1
Rural
Provincial Public    Urban        126          42          155          63
Rural         3          114          34         200        2,174
Other state facilities 121 Urban   64          as
Rural         3          so
Local bodies         Urban         13         151          117
Rural        15         679           54
Private              Urban        278         178          140                                      10,278
Rural        15          6o           23                                       0,871
Total        Urban      ~~4724542                                601,0
Rural        90         Ot       0 0f            TW p         35: -111  2 00  ,17'4  6,171
T4AsI  900  1,362     833         263        2,~~~~~~~9174     1,1
119I0/SOfigures
121 Otr state  ilite Inciude faciliie not open to the public, such as prison hospita
and excludes 564 sub-helth centres
Soures: Publik Sctor: Annua iRportofthDirector GenalHeatth 160O,MinistryoH"ithBi-asticsscccdon
Private Sector: Census of Health Facilitie in Pakisn, Federal Bureau of Statisics, Islamabad, 1919
Directorat of Health, Punjab
Anxlt7



- 67 -
Annex 1
Table 8
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Private Sector Health Manpower By Province (1989)
Homoopathlc              [ pr         |                        Lady Hca1th    Lab/X-Ray/ECG 
|DDoctors     octors      Hakim                c   Nurss   Midwoves     I   Vidto     |   Technicin
PAKISTAN
Urban     10926            2320     3786            3340       814         267             243                438
Rural       976             400     1499            1685       145          63              32                 77
Total     11902            2780      5264           4925       960         320             275                151
PUNJAB
Urban      4124            15681    2973             1966      321         164             164                206
Rural       409             367      1271           1006       134          47              20                 49
Total      480             1948      4244           3000       456         211              190               255
BALOCHISTAN
Urban       277              21        44            209        30           8               3                 26
Rural        19               1         4             26         0           2               0                  1
Total       296              22        48             234       30           10               3                20
N.W.F.P.
Urban       664              92       163            419        11            3              11                37
Rural       153              o0       140            384         a            4               0                27
Total       817             142       303             803       19            7              11                64
SINDN
Urban     5661              636       595             716      452           92              66               170
Rural       336              32        94             170        3            0               6                 0
Total      6190              66       6ee            688       456           92              71               170
Source: Private Sctor: Census of Health F&cilUes In Pakistan, Federal Bureau of StatIics, Islamabad, 196t
AnxltS



- 68 -
Annex 1
Table 9
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT-STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Total Public Expenditure on Health & Population Welfare
(Rs. Million)
DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
RECURRENT         TOTAL    EXiPNDITURE
[ HEALTH  I  |POP.            |         EXP.            EXP.      AS%[ OF GNP
1072173           96                    27                172          206             0.43
1973174          176                   103               210           40              0.56
1974175          363                   148               278           76              0.70
19757            620                  1s                361          1173             o.u
107677           840                   133               439          1162             0.78
197717s          512                   108               580          1176             0.62
107370           648                   114               642          1328             0.63
1079/S0          e6                    127               662          1606             0.60
10801i8         900                    131               796         lo6              0.62
1#1/32          1037                   174               003          2204             0.63
1#62/S3         108                    178               1207         286              0.64
1963/84         1571                   202               166          3303             0.74
10964           1706                   346               1788         3718             0.73
196uu           1822                   486               2304         4732             0.88
196/87          2501                   483              3270          636              1.04
1967/u          2761                   440              4064          7613             1.0
1osso           2671                   480              4810          7771             6.07
109/00          266                    500              4837          7718             o.5
1900091         2730                   636 131          4997          3374             0.80
1991/32         2703 121               702 131          5517 121      a027             0.73
1 Includesrecurrent expenditure.
121 Revised Esimates
131 Allocaton
Source: Economic Survey 1001-42. FInanco DM n, Govrnment of Paistn, lIdamabd.
AnxitO



PAKSAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PFIOJECT -- STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Fed.l (1I wW ProAncil Dowglopmnwo Exp.ndktures 121
FtS to   n m w4                                                        t
._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l ._                                             In ._n; 1.
"adt~  34  . 4   ,   ii43     US                                  M.04    inE[34E Its4       4                                   3 4  3
eB_cm   us   34   34   34   34   34   34   us   ,'34    ,  '             w     a    tW    l     4    e I    w nti         ' u4Iaai
34qBtHC.  34   34   34   34  SW 41Ut V  -t    4    34 13  13   44.-    3    tie  1                                   44    U    34  34 44 
_.ni    .4   34   us  _4   34 3                4 3        I   3   3    U' _4  tie    0   3   34  ,40   ,444    0l U   Ut   44  4|
a msad m             191 3w                * .t .                     Vt    19  1    4 n                          3 : .           i   0   3
A,! .ts      B .     .          .     ;         3   1:
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.I
I P~
cr. P
X



- 70 -
Annex 1
Table 1 1A
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Recurrent Budget Allocations
(Rs millions)
19os9                     119"i                     1991192             1902/93
Budget                    uui                       r d ig It |                Budget
|Allocation ||xndtr||AlIocatb      be   dtu          Allocaton |Ex   dtr||Allocatlon|
BALOCHISTAN
Adminhutrtbon          14.91         14.25       15.34         16.10        49.17        22.85        47.08
Hoepltai& Clinics     340.45        290.86      340.77        331.42       421.45       408.67       562.85
Hopltals             200.97        170.18       191.91       136.22       240.03        230.24      328.79
RHCc                  22.33         25.10       23.15         28.00        27.46         36.6o       39.79
BHUc                 100.87         79.37       106.47        92.39       128.86        118.65       122.27
Dispenbaries          24.48         14.65       24.90         23.15        25.10         24.09       62.00
MCH Centrec            5.09          5.48        5.70          5.66         6.24          7.78        6.65
oter                   32.02         29.74        34.22        34.11        36.16         43.30       48.16
Public Heatth School   2.30          1.73        2.40          1.87         2.00          2.60         3.50
Preventiv             27.94         26.41        23.44        29.27        32.31         40.70       44.06
TorAL      - I        402.75        34082        40.03 63    31           518.02         482.60        6
pO tottOI21 I       3                                                                              36
11 Excludes allocatIn br Bolan Medicl College
(21 Includoe SHUs. DispensrIe and MCH Centrec.
SOurCO: Budget documents. Governmont of Balochian
Anxtl 1A



- 71 -
Annex 1
Table 11 B
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Recurrent Budget Allocations
(Rs millions)
196990                      1991                       1961192              1992103
Budget R    A-W* d           Budget       Revsd       FBu-dg ot1     R   ld        Budget
Allocaon   [Ihcti]           Alloction     Aocaton AAllcaar   Alloaon    |Estmae
PUNJAB
Administration        308.42         247.94         324.24        250.76      268.70         231.10      270.70
HospItl & DEep.       961.20         920.90         868.67       1,102.07    1,348.00       1,333.40    1,911O
Rural Health          556.27         507.47        63.35          563.39      796.09         666.60      940.30
Preventive             11.11          10.51          11.111        10.66       22.96           14.00       19.30
MCH Centres            16.81          15.34          17.32          16.389     19.75           17.00      24.00
Training/Educ         210.31         191.84         218.88        220.12      248.03         239.70      216.80
Others                  8.61           3.15          10.89          11.06       13.40          12.00       11.60
ITOTAL               2,102.73-     t 1-02.1 .21    2.0             174.W.    2..13 04...
poriow ltowtl           4a-   48                                      1 -.  . 
Rua Healt: as
p"er tcl 2t 2w ::                       6 :-          32-            2 -:      ::
IIl Includes dmpenarloe.
121 Includes Preventhv Health Care nd MCH Contres.
SourCe: Dopwutment of Heath. Punjab
AnxltllB



PAISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECr--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Gow _nnit H"elh FcIlw, Balochlian (1 99091)
E _ 1 U d                     Ho_paf             1       1 ~     IP::  O          uI"
1_W11AI        c_           I           L                            Be                1g51  IMCBHl[B
DMUON            DITCT              V00
a_u                 X                   46                           1s    1,                    I      10            19           a      to     1i             S
PWdjn                    464            31             4            6             4       40           22          12      33       6             6
Chin_                    is7            12             1             0             2      20            16         14      22        S            2
ZhabaLarIi Lon"                         as             35            3           110             S      30            33         22       23       *            5
Zhob.                    23             17             3           130             2      20           22           a      17        4            2
Knta biii                1n             1 1            2            35             1      20           16           4       4        1            2
Slb           Slba                      126            11            4            6              I      10            10          16     1i        6            6
Zlt                       42             4             1            13            2       20            5                   5                     1
Kalkh                     Ss             3             4            a             0        0           14                  2        2             1
*DO   u.                 135            10             1            10             1      10           14                  20        3            1
NJ dlbd                  301            26             3            52             1      10           23                  22        4            3
T_eoo                    213            12             1            g0             1      10            7                  11                     1
K mla"                                  26             4           110            3       30           34          17      26       3             4
K1i           Kia                       445           1              3           s0             2      20            46          4       23       3            3
IGuami                   o0             22             1            60             4      40           2                   26                     1
xi-                      167            10             1            20             1      10           21                  17       2             1
LaduI.                   246            13             1            1            3       46           16                  44       3             2
Il'           Tmb                       46             21             1           O              4      40            31          10      26       2            2
NAd_U                    147             a             1            20            3       30           11                  15       4             1
PunIr                    210            11             1            24            0        0            3                  13       2             1
*^M~~~..         ..   . . .. .     ..   '',~ '' S '.'''.
:~~~~~~~~~.   .bd .          ..   . . . .         . .....                                                                     sm11 ,: ..
D _..tormfi d Haf. B4bm
m x



- 73 -
Annex 1
Table 12B
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Government Health Facilities, Punjab (1990/91)
Esimated  |Hotal             |  RHCc             Di _ewa|
Populatlon              aw                SW d        d||BdW  | SHUN| PECHs|| WC_
DIVISION  DISTRICT w000
Lahore     Lahore           4.073         26    5,402        a      48            11      44      37     so        53
Kasur           2,006          2      221        12    240             27      32      52      a        31
SlWkhupura      2.736           9     54         16    252             so     126    110    21          36
Okara           2.005           4     215         0    10             29      U       87     16        24
Gujranwaia Guiranwala       3,548         11      924       15    300             51     110    104      15        20
Gujrat          2.696          11     567        17    340             42    137      116     19        38
Sialkot         3,168          13    1,040       15    300             51    110    125       16        43
Rawalpindi Rawalpindi       2,642         12    2.135       11      84            57    116       72     40        43
Attock           1,030          a     301         5      42            28      *4      48     12        20
Jhelum            747           5     302         6      52           1i       56      40     12        18
Chakwal           883           3      130        0      s0            26      98      53      0        14
Sargodha   Sargodh          2,375          8      640        16    270            34      62      06      is       36
Khu.hab           771           8     244         4      70            20      32      34      7        13
MIanwall         8so            4     247         0     140            20      so      36      7        16
Bhakkar           913           4     217         4      80            20      26      34      2        13
Faisaabbd  Faalabd          4.048         16    1,735        10    200            10J      04    16       44       56
T.T. Sngh        1,153          3     290         0    110             27      20      e2     11        20
Jhang           2,545           0     334        13    260             s0    152       04     14        32
Multan     Multan           3,623         13    1,476        11    110             53     32    111       34       36
Khanewal         1,750          a     210         3      34            26      40      s0     10        10
Vehari           1,740          3     220         6      36            30      34      6o      7        22
Sahiwal         2,900           0     50         13    18              34      96     113     13        20
Bahawaipur Bahawalpur       2,028          6    1.323        11    162             56      1s      so     11       22
R.Y. Khan       2,471           7     817        16    231             a6    116       01     10        24
Bahawalnagar    1,811           5     335        10      40            53      16      S6      3        20
D.G. Khan  D.G Khan         1,353          4      263         0      50            23      20      44      6        14
Rajanpur          000           4     237         5    118             10       0      29       2       11
Muzaffargarh    2.150           7      335       13    16O             25      34      50       5       10
Layyah            925           3      173        4      6s            22      16      20      3        20
TOTAI           60,6 eo:            2*-  - -                          4 . -  -:  -:-
Source: Dopwtm.nt of Health, Punjab
AnxltI2B



- 74 -
Annex 1
Table 13
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Utilization Rates In Health Facilities (1990)
Balochistan                   Punjab
Avg.          Avg.          Avg.          Avg.
B-~ d   Outp tbn~t          Bed   IOutpadbntl
Occupancy          Visitb    Occupancy         Vib
Tertiary care hospitals        90%          2,022           80%         1.477
Specialized hospital            80GM         n.a.     a      5            192
Scondary care hopItalb         55%           2t2            70%           227
RHC *                          35%            93            35%            07
BHUc                                          33                           22
MCH Centres                                   24                          n.a.
Dispensaries                                  29                           29
FWCs                                          11                           20
Note:  Indicates Not Applicable
n.a. Indicates Not Availbhe
Sources: Balochitn: Department of Health. Balochistan
Punjab: Directorate of H"lth, Punjab
Anxlt13



- 75 -
Annex 1
Table 14
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Proposed Investment Program
Development Expenditures (1993194-1997/98) [1J
[Rs Billion]
|Punjab   |  |Balochistan    Federal
Preventive Care                         2.0           0.2          1.5
Rural Health                            3.2           0.4          0.5
Urban Primary Care                      0.9           0.1
Human Resource Development               2.0          0.3          1.0
Hospitals                                2.3          0.2          1.5
Nutrition                                0.6          0.1          0.5
Others                                   0.6          0.1
Total                                  .1.4                      5.0
[11 Preliminary figures.
Source: Government of Pakistan, Planning Commission
Anx1t14



- 76 -
Page 1 of 2
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Health Staff
Doctors
1.        About 108,000 staff are employed in the health sector of whom some
14,000 and 20,000 are doctors employed in the public and private sectors
respectively  (1989).   Primarily to alleviate unemployment of new medical
graduates, the government has created about 2,000 jobs for junior doctors in the
public sector since 1985, but there are still estimated to be some 6,000
unemployed doctors (1989 unofficial figure). While the output from the medical
colleges has been somewhat reduced, it is still substantially in excess of
anticipated vacancies particularly for sale graduates.   Despite two major
government inquiries into the problem (1976 and 1982), no solution has been
found. Apart from the financial implications, continuing government attempts to
find public sector jobs for medical graduates is resulting in their being posted
to positions for which they have not been properly trained and to facilities not
designed to support them and thereby negatively affecting the functioning of the
primary health system.  Reform of medical curricula has yet to be seriously
started. In contrast, there is a major shortage of almost all types of 5edical
nRePialis..t  (surgeons, anesthetists, gynecologists, etc.).  This affects the
quality and availability of tertiary care offered, and also basic medical and
specialist training.
Nursing and garamedical staff
2.        Nurses are almost entirely a female cadre with some 5,800 employed in
the public sector and over 2,000 in the private sector (1989). They are usually
posted in the large urban hospitals, with most nursing posts in the smaller
hospitals being vacant.  The profession has a poor image and low status and
consequently has had great difficulty in recruiting and retaining young nurses.
Efforts during the 1980s to improve nursing salaries and allowances have had some
effect but there remains a chronic shortage of nurses throughout the country.
Current health policy and plans include proposals for major further
salary/grading/career improvements, the introduction of local training schools,
and the lowering of various entry and personal requirements.
3.        Paramedical staff cover a wide range of cadres including (a) Lady
Health Visitors (LHV), a long established female group who are the backbone of
the primary care system and who are particularly important for MCH care;
(b) Health Technicians (HT), a mixed male and female group created in the 1970s
to be posted to BHUs and RHCs; (c) technical staff, including such groups as



- 77 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
laboratory technicians, operating theatre technicians and x-ray technicians, who
are found in all facilities from RHCs upwards but whose training, until recently,
has been very neglected; (d) MPW female staff, especially Family Welfare Workers,
whose training is similar to LHVs; (e) others, include dispensers a long standing
and large male group whose current position in the primary care system is vague,
vaccinators, sanitary inspectors, malaria supervisors and midwives. Details of
the numbers in each cadre are given in Annex 1. All of the female cadres are in
short supply, as are many of the male groups, although the position varies
significantly between provinces. Various proposals are included in the current
health programs to address these problems which are similar to those proposed for
nurses. A special case is the existing Female Health Technicians (FHT) who will
receive six months training in midwifery, phased in, to bring their level
approximately equal to that of the Lady Health Visitor. Also, the pre-service
training for FHTs will be extended from the present 18 months to 24 months to
include six months of midwifery.  Training quality for many of these groups is
broadly acceptable, but significant gaps remain. One problem, yet to be tackled,
is to revise paramedical training curricula/staffing to account for the advent
of doctors at peripheral health facilities. In-service training consists only
of ad hoc short courses usually linked with vertical programs; planned and
comprehensive continuing education is non-existent. The training of the trainers
of many of the paramedical cadres has often been overlooked and some of the
facilities and much of the equipment are in poor condition. The private modern
sector's demands on the paramedical groups in short supply are not great, with
the exception of nurses.



- 78 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 9
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Two project frameworks follow.  The first *ulmmrizeo the relationship
between measures included in the Social Action Program (SAP) and the content of
the proposed FHII project.   The first column, headed "Objective/Strategy",
considers each of the eleven priority action points identified in the
government's SAP document of April 19921.  These points are then linked, as
appropriate, to the interventions included in the project. In turn, the proposed
interventions are related to the expected outputs for Balochistan and the Punjab
-- which are planned outputs from their development programs, of which the
project is an integral part.
The second framework follows the same structure but shows in detail how the
various priority sub-programs supported by the project in Balochistan and the
Punjab contribute to the planned objectives and expected outputs of the
provincial development programs.
pI Supplemented as necessary by policy related information in the PFP and PSAL.



PAKISTAN: SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT FRAMEWORK:
Social Action Progrm (SAP) and Second Family Health Relationships
OBJECT IVE/STRATEGY                      INTERVENT IONS                           IDICATOR                                DECI SIONS
Strengthening Heatth Services &
Staff Develotment
Improve the working condition            I.    Increase and improve              MCH service use would increase           How to ensure preventive and
and term  of eeploymmnt for              access to MCH and CMC services,         by 20X in Balochistan and by             family planning services are
staff in rural areas                                                              15X in the Punjab by end of             given highest priority inr
(particularly for fmle staff)                                                    progrm.                                  DON managers.
so that expwxded and iproved
NCH/FP services can be
delivered In these places.
ii.  leprove the quality of             Training programs wouLd deLiver
existing services.                      65X of total plan by year 3 and
75X by year 5.
iii.  Improve utilization of            Two midwifery training centers
PHC services.                           operationaL by year 3 in
Balochistan. Two public heaLth
iv.   Introduce comprehensive           schools operational by year 3
in-service training for PHC             in the Punjab.
staff.
v.   Expand fe_mle paramedical          Famle paraedical vacancies
training output and improve             would reduce by 20X by year 5.
staff recruitment/ retention.
Delivering fmily planning from           i.    Make fmily planning                Full family planning services           Same decision as above; plus
DOS health service outlets,              services available in all               available in 50X of health               determine what is the most
heolth facilities.                      facilities by year 2 and 100X            effective progrm strategy to
by year 4.                              achieve quick, major declines
in overall fertility.
Management & Oroan zational
Develocient and Strenathening
Health Services
Naintain real per capita                 i.    Increase planning and             One new management unit in               What are the most cost-
recurrent health expenditures           mngement systems' capacity to            every Division in Salochistan            effective health and fertility
and 2  increae of real per               be able to deal with progrm             and in every district in the             control services which should
capita basic health services             expaion and increased                   Punjab and one at provincial             be expanded with the added
expenditures per  uw .                   resources,                              level; expnde  planning cell;            resources, especially in PHC.
Maintain  hars of non-aslary                                                     expanded monitoring/evaluation
itm  in basic health                                                             system with related informtion
expewiditures.                                                                   system support.
'.0F



OBJECTI V/STRATEGY                       INTERVENTIONS                            INDICATORS                              DECISIONS
Develop an isprovad social               ii.  As part of planming cell            Overall arvnal increase in
databse covering both outco e            developent, carry out arimul             total heaLth budget, especially
and performence Indicators.              progr_m-bused financial plan             In PHC, nutrition, FP; ad
exercise to ensure increase in          other SAP priority program  by
Develop and apply pl ming                and changad distribution of              at least 5X; these program
processs and _ thods ihich               heaLth expenditures.                     would increase by 15X in
better prioritized progr am   nd                                                  Balochistan and 20X in the
projects.                                iii.  Conduct annual program             Punjab as a proportion of total
reviews.                                health budget by year 5.
Develop improved resource
generation and  fficiency                iv.  lIprove *ng ement quality           A functioning, on-going
improvme nts to mxieize                  and efficiency so that health           mwneagemnt training system;
resource  vailability for                mnengers have the abilities to           decentralization of staff and
priority progr m.                        operate isproved organizational          finncial authorities;
systems                                 strengthened supervisory
Increase decentralization and                                                    capacities.
comiunity involvement in DOm             v.  Conrdct health service
service operations.                      experiments in the slum areas
of Lahore and in a more limited
way in two other cities.
Note:  2 of the 11 SAP          2 others could be                                                                                                               o
points are not                  dealt with indirectly                                                                                                          Cf
directly dealt with by          by the project, but
this project:                   there is nothing
specific in the
-  Increasino user charges      progrm as such:
for tertiary services;
- Three year
-  Reform of                    expenditure progra_ming
regulatory frameork             for *ducatlon.
for private sector
developent.                     - Expand coverage of
rural water supply and
sanitation.
e >
OQ :
PJ m
0



PAKISTAN: SECOND FAMILY EALTH PROJECT
PROJECT FRANEURK:
Strengthening NeaLth Services
OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                       INTERVENTIONI                             INDICATORS                               DECISIONS
A. Improve the pubtlics health
status by increa ing the
effectiveness of he1th
Services. In particular
maternal wd child *s well *
fiaily pltnming services would
be Improved md CDC tasks.
m_inly In rural wd s4ma poor
urban area, would be
integratedV1 rosed.
A.1  Increase  nd isprove                1.    Expending TBA training -            2200 new TBAs in Balochisten             WHether and how UNICEF would
access to the above services.            additional to UNICEF 1iputs.              and 2600 in the Punjab trained           continue in this progrm.
by end of progr-m.
if.   Experim enting with                A detailed plan by end of year          WHich 40 villages  hould be
comunity health workers.                 1; program operational by year           site of pilot; details of CNW
(the Punjab only)                     2 with 80 CHUs; en evaluation            functioning; what would be
report by mid of year 4.                 evaluation criteria.
iii.  Strengthening referral             22 RHC/District hospitals in             How to attract WUOs to serve at         I
systm especially for lCH                 Balochistan and 260 RHC/Tehsil           RHCs/other remote areas; how to         00
services,                                hospitals  in the Punjab as              make transport really
first referral centers.                  functional between peripheral
areas and centers.
iv.   Enhancing the emergency            6 Divisional Nospitals in                How to keep trained staff
handling system for lOCH                 Balochistan wnd 30 District              distributed among district
scwondary referral.                      hospitals in the Punjab as               hospitals (not just major ones
secondary referral centers.              in big towns).
v.    Expend NGO health and              5 mGO projects approved by year         WHat mechanism would be used to
population activities.                      nd all co pleted by end of            operationally and financially
progr_m In Balochistan. 3 MGO            Involve or contract MQOs.
projects  pproved by year 1 nd
9 completed by end of program
in the Punjab.
A.2  Improve the qpality of              i.    Upgrading facilities and            Up to 200 BNSs in Balochistan            Exactly how each type of
existing and expwnded services.          equipment at selcted SHUs  nd             and 2,300 NCH Centers and BHUs           supplies would be procured;
WACH Centers.                            in the Punjab given some                  ihat system would be used to
spport by end of progrm.                 decide which facility gets              >
exactly what resources. 
0



OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                          INTERVENTIONS                              INDICATORS                                 DECISIONS
ii.   Improve the supply of               Up to 550 NCH Centres, RHCs and             Exactly how each type of
essential medicines and medicaL            BHUs in Balochistan and up to              suWpLies wouLd be procured;
suppties including iaproving               1600 NCH Centres and SHUs in               what system  would be used to
the distribution system                    the Punjab given same suport               decide which facility gets
(medical stores depot).                    by end progrm,                             exactly what suppLies; how to
maintain effective esential
drugs List.
iii.  Enhance nutrition                   One incremental officer staff               How tasks would be coordinated
activities and expend capecity             and support staff by end year              between PLD and DOH; who wouLd
to plan and perform these                  2; m*cronutrients to 550 BHUs              actually do nutrition education
tasks.                                     by end of program  in                      campaigns and studies.
Balochistan. 3 incremental
officer staff and support staff
by end year 2; micronutrients
to 1900 BHUs in the Punjab by
end program.
iv.   Reorganize conmunicable             Ninilaboratories operational in             How to handle variations in
disease activities into better             241 BHUs in Balochistan and                actual staffing among districts
integrated working tea_  at all            1900 BHUs in the Punjab by end             to make new  system still work;
levels,                                    of progrm; cold chain expanded            how to integrate jobs and
to all BHUs by end of program             assign new job grades/salary
scales; ihether and how to give
preferences for hardship areas.
v.    Making family plaming                300 LHVs, 30 nurses and 15 AlHs            How to ensure supplies are
services available in all                  trained in FP in Balochistan.              always available in over 80X of
health facilities.                         1000 LHVs, 900 nurses and 45               all facilities on continuous
AlHs trained in FP fn the                  basis (supply and monitoring
Punjab by end of program;                  system); how to monitor FP-
contraceptives, and IEC                    related performmnce of staff
materials in over 630 outlets              after training; how to operate
in Balochistan and 2600 outlets           a functionsl, multifaceted
in the Punjab by end program.             relationship with PWD.
A.3  Improving utilization of               i.   Strengthening health                  Conduct 30 audience studies in             How would priority campaigns be
PHC services (increase the                 education management, functions            Balochistan and 45 in the                   continually decided; how would
pubtlc's interest in  nd demand            and activities (some of this               Punjab by program end; KAP                 contracts be directly
for DON H*rvices).                         continuing Child Survival                  surveys indicate 50X increase              supervised at district level;
Project activities),                       in health knowledge in 5 years.            how to coordinate with
nutrition education?
0



OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                        INTERVENTIONS                             INDICATORS                                DECISIONS
ii.   Encourage covnunity                50X increase in communities               What is the GOP policy (and how
involvement with local health            directly supporting their BHU             it changes over tim) on
services,                                 including trained TBAs in both           comuAnity participation; what
provinces, or CHUs in the                is the nmenuU of options that
Punjab; nmber of formal                  GOP proposes communities shouLd
comittees set up to assist in            do to get involved including
management.                              types of financing
arrangements.
ii.  Assess changes in                   Percentage change in quantities           Do any of the service
services' iapact(s).                      and causes of changes in                 statistics or supporting
service statistics - for first           management information need to
3 years and for 5 years; X               be modified to produce needed
change in qualities and causes           impact profiles.  What are the
of changes in service                    meaningful impact indicators;
statistics - for first 3 years           is rapid assessment adequate.             00
and for 5 years; change in
indicators and reasons in
special impact studies between
years 3 and 5.
A.4  Conduct health service               i.  Improve/expand preventive             20X reduction in preventabLe             How can reasonably accurate
experiments in the slums of               services - especially CDC-                diseases per 100,000 over 5              period prevaLence be
Ouetta in Balochistan in the              related and nutrition services.           years especially emong                   established with cost-effective
slua areas of Lahore Eand                                                           children.                                 ethods in these areas.
limited inputs to Sargodha and
Bahawalpurl in the Punjab.
ii.   Increase access to PHC             Development of 4 NCH Centres              If model seems to have impact,
and FP services by increasing            with LHV accommodations and 2             how to use Lahore's experience
nuxber of outlets and the                 sabulances by year 3 in Ouetta;          in other towns.
financing of their services.             development of 23 fCH Centres
with LHV accommodation nd 33
NCH Centres with labor room by
year 3 in Lahore. 0S increase
in service use by year 5; 30X
reduction in INR and MR by
year 5.                                                                         c 
o w



PAKISTA: SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT FRAMEWORK:
Staff Develop ent
OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                        INTERVENTIONS                             INDICATORS                               DECISIONS
B. Improve staff tec;%nical
capabilities along with
perfor  nce  nd increas  the
rumber of female para_dical
staff.
B.1  Introduce a co prehenive.            i.    Develop new in-service              one technical training unit in           Staff transfer or hire
on-going training program  for            training structures (PHDC and             PHDC by end of year 1, and               requirements; how to ensure all
in-service primary health care           DHDCs), procedures, staff                  similar in each OHDC at each             in-service training focuses at
staff.                                    capabilities and operational              Division (Balochistan),                  PHDC and DHDCs; how in detail
resources.                               District (the Punjab) by                  to plan and  wmnage alL training
program end; 24 trainers in              at both PHDC and DHDC levels;
Balochistan  nd 67 in the                what would be the detailed
Punjab in post and trained by           a*mual resource needs.
end year 3; 22 training courses
in Balochistan wnd 34 in the
Pumjab developed.
B.2  Expend female paramedical            i.    Develop two new  eidwifery          Two constructed/ operational             How to get teaching staff
training output wnd iaproved              training schools in Balochistan           schools by beginning year 3; at          prepared nd transferred by                I
staff recruitment  nd                     and two new public health                 least 100 graduates in                   year 3.                                   00
retention.  (This would be done           schools in the Punjab.                    Balochistan and 50 in the                                                         s
in coordination with a related                                                      Punjab.
pre-service paramedical
training project assisted by
the Asian Development Bnk).
ii.   Iprove pre-service                 10 (Salochistan) and 6 (the               Now to link with Nursing
training quality; alter                  Punjab) existing PHS tutors               Council's job nd curriculum
recruitment procedures; and               given refresher tutor training           revision process; how to make
change conditions of service,             by year 2; PHS curriculum                changed conditions effective
revised to link better with LHV          and yet compatible with civil
jobs; recruitm ent  nd                   service rules.
conditions of service
officially modified.
iii.  Strengthen existing                Over 90X of all faculty posts             How to improve D0C  and how to
training institutions  nd                 filled by end year 2; key PHC            best mnage technical
program especially the                    courseS revisedVupdbted and              assistance to CCM; how to alter
Department of Com_ nity                   operational with class                   requirements to fill faculty
Medicine (DCM) at Bolan Medical           enroll_mnt at over 75X capacity          posts; how to attract students         0 
College *t quetta (B lochist n)   by ye r 3                              tch nge ie ge D a  nd of CCH)          n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by ea  3.(carie  mag DH ad  f CI)
and College of Coeimity                                                                                                     X
Nedicine Lahore (the Punjab).                                                                                             4



PAKISTAM: SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT FRANEWOK:
MNagemnt and OrgEizatilanal Dwvelopnt
OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                       INTERVENTIOS                              INDICATORS                                ECISIONS
C. suild institutional
capacity to relize service
objectives  nd prep re for
future requirem_nts of SAP
onger-term expansion.
C.1  Increas  plwming  nd                 i     Establish provincial and           One PHDC by year 1 and 5 (or             Relationship of PHDC to
_mnagement syst _   capacity to          district management units.                1/Division) DHDCs in                     _Magement Training Institute
be able to deal with the                                                           Balochistan and 30 (or                   for Doctors; whether DHDCs
Increased resources and program                                                    1/district) DHDCs in the Punjab          expend beyond Divisions; which
expansion expected through SAP                                                     or some improved district                districts are priorities -
macro objectives.                                                                  managment capacity before the            first served.
end of the loan progrem period.
Ii.   Strengthening provincial           Full staffing of Planning Cell           Exact division of labor between
planning capacity.                       by year 2; new planning                  Health Directorate and
procedures by year 2.                    Secretariat Planning Cell.
iii.  EstabLishing provincial            Full staffing of unit by end of          Which staff to transfer to or
project mnagpement unit.                 year 1; and no longer than 1             hire for PIU; exact operating
month delay in maJor project             procedures.
actions throughout progrm.
iv.  Develop program/ general            Develop ent of pecific                   How would these procedures
monitoring and evaluation                procedures by end year 1; mid-           relate to those already
progrm _nd project follow-up             term evaluation report revision          developed by USAID  nd similar
activities including  upporting           nd expansion of procedures by           nreds of ADB project  nd GOP
information system develop ent           year 4.                                  regular needs.
to aid long-term SAP
monitoring.
C.2  Iqprove enagement quality            i.    Introduce systematic and           One basic pre-service course             How to integrate this training
wnd efficiency so that social            regular  emnagement training for          developed and tested by end              with Nanagement Training
ector managers  nd supervisors           all staff in managerial                  year 1; two basic in-service              Institute for Doctors' exiting
hae  the ability to operate              positions.                                courses - 1 for PHC  nd 1 for            program; how to select.
improved organizational systems                                                   hospital maagemnt by end year
nd deliver the neded heath                                                         1; 75X of all managers given at
nd populatIon servie,                                                              least one cours  by end year 3.
it.   Increas  decentralization          One set of changed rules of              Which  pecific authorities to
of authority to district level.          busins outlining altered                 move to district levl and to
financil, prsonnel and                   hor (DHO, MS  etc.) and mich
procurement authorities by end           to retain; Whether District
of year 2; district                      HeaLth Comeittee"  would be set      co
organizational records of               iup and function.                      C
progrm operation.                                                             co x
0



OBJECTIVEISTRATEGY                        INTERVENTINlS                             INDICATORS                                DECISIONS
iii.  Strengthen supervlsory              Four sets of revised/updated             How to relate supervision
skills and practices.                     supervisory procedures (an. for          changes to mnaeumpent
each PHC professional and                decentralization and other
peroiedical slso                         system/procedure changes; how
hospital/clinical prof. and              to reLate to cadre definition
peramedical) by enJ year 1 and           and task changes.
one course for each by end year
2.
00
m m
Px 
'ICD
wD(
0



- 87 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 11
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Strengthening Primary Health Services at the District and Periphery Level
&tM'
1.        This component aims at: (a) reducing women's mortality and morbidity;
(b) integrating contraceptive services into all health facilities; and (c)
improving the effectiveness of activities against communicable diseases. These
goals were chosen among many alternatives because they have the potential for
large gains in improving mortality and morbidity in Pakistan and are relatively
less complex to implement.   During implementation and training, particular
attention will be given to local conditions which warrant refining the focus of
these activities. The project will support a package of interventions which will
be phased-in, district by district, and when integrated with existing basic
health services, will provide more comprehensive health services to the most
vulnerable groups in Balochistan and the Punjab.
Stratei&&
2.        To reach these goals,  three main strategies will be used:   (a)
improving access to health services, in particular for women; (b) improving the
quality of health services at the district and periphery level;  and  (c)
increasing utilization of health services.
3.        The interventions required to lower maternal mortality and morbidity
and those needed to integrate family planning education and services into health
care are closely interrelated and are presented together. They include:
(a)     improved access to basic services through
(i)      expanding   Traditional   Birth   Attendant   (TBA)
training;
(ii)     experimenting with and introducing Community Health
Workers (CHW) in the Punjab;
(iii)    posting additional female staff at BHUs, RHCs and
tehsil hospitals;



- 88 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 11
(iv)     strengthening  the referral  system  and enhancing
emergency handling capacity;
(v)      expanding NGO activities.
(b)     improved gualitv of prenatal, postnatal and delivery services
at all levels through:
(i)      in-service training for field staff (see Staff
Development component);
(ii)     upgrading  selected  BHUs  and  MCH  Centres  and
improving the availability of essential medicines
and supplies;
(iii)    enhancing nutrition activities as part of maternal
and child health (MCH) services;
(iv)     reorganizing Communicable Disease Control (CDC) and
strengthening diagnostic capacities;
(v)      improved availability of contraceptives and basic
obstetrical services in all health outlets; and
(vi)     increasing the management and supervision capability
(see Management component);
c)      Imuroved utilization of services through:
i)       strengthening health education;
(ii)     encouraging community involvement; and
(iii)    assessing service impact.
d)      I  roved urban health by undertaking similar activities in
selected urban slums.
4.        The Project will support an eansion of the ez
qKguQ   and a strengthening of the link between trained TBAs and primary health
care services. A large number of TBAs have already been trained with assistance
from UNICEF and others but lack of follow-up and linkage with the local BHU/RHC
has weakened their performance. The project will strengthen the curriculum and
training plan, and implement training activities; the BHU/RHC will become
responsible for the training and monitoring/support of TBAs in its catchment
area. In Balochistan where relatively few TBAs have been trained compared to
the Punjab, there will be emphasis on initial training whereas in the Punjab the
emphasis will be on refresher training.  Due to the difficult logistics in



- 89 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 11
Balochistan, training and supervision will continue to be carried out by mobile
teams.  Each team is expected to train around 100 TBAs per year.  There are
already four mobile teams, each composed of a Lady Health Visitor (LHV), an ayah
and a driver.   The project will provide four more vehicles and UNICEF will
provide another four, a total of 12 mobile teams. The project will provide funds
for travel allowances and accommodation for the teams, for POL/maintenance of the
vehicles and for TBA kits.   In the Punjab, some 22,000 TBAs have been trained
and the focus will be on refresher courses to keep TBAs updated; in addition
2,600 TBAs will  receive  initial  training.    TBAs'  interventions will be
implemented during the prenatal, delivery and postpartum periods. During the
prenatal period, a trained TBA, with educative support from the BHU staff, will
attempt to have contacts with as many pregnant women as feasible. During these
contacts, the TBA will provide health education on nutrition and pregnancy, iron
and folic acid supplements and refer the pregnant women to the nearest health
facility (MCH Centre, BHU or Satellite Clinic) for tetanus immunization. Through
pictorials and other simple screening instruments, she will screen for high risk
pregnancies; all high risk pregnancies will be referred to and encouraged to
visit the BHU/RHC. A similar prenatal package will be provided at the BHU, MCH
Centre, dispensary, RHC and tehsil hospital levels with a degree of
specialization commensurate to their level of care, e.g. at the BHU a decision
on whether a woman can be delivered at home or in a health outlet will be made;
complicated pregnancies will be hospitalized at the RHC or tehsil hospital. The
trained TBA will provide a clean supervised delivery at home to the low risk
pregnant women, referring emergent complications to the nearest health unit.
After home delivery, the TBA will reemphasize breastfeeding, postpartum and
infant care,and the availability and benefits of contraceptives. The LHV will
supervise the TBAs in the villages around her BHU/RHC, she will replace
consumables and build a link between the TBAs and the local health facility. The
project will complement resources provided by UNICEF for new training, refresher
training, supervisory costs and consumable supplies. To facilitate the permanent
link between these self-supporting village practitioners and the health system,
the BHU/RHC will provide them with continuing education, basic drugs, resupply
for delivery kits as well as monitoring their referral pattern and record
keeping. Twenty-four hour coverage for delivery services will be offered at the
BHU or MCH Centre by female health staff, midwife, or trained TBA. Postpartus
care will be provided by the TBA through two home visits in the Punjab (24 hours
and four to six weeks after delivery) and one referral to the BHU; in
Balochistan, the target will be less ambitious due to the difficult logistics.
Home visits will focus on encouraging universal breastfeeding, monitoring
bleeding and fever in the mother. Information and education on infant health,
breastfeeding, nutrition, postpartum complications and family planning will be
reemphasized. Contraception will be promoted to start early after delivery, or
earlier in absence of breastfeeding (infant death).   Trained TBAs will be
encouraged to distribute or sell oral rehydration salts (ORS), iron & folic acid,
acetaminophen, pills and condoms.
, ,  ,>.   .
5.        Although the establishment of CMfl  was included in the 1990 health
policy, some aspects of the sustainability of the cadre have yet to be fully



- 90 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 11
developed, including how they would be remunerated. For the Puniab only, the
project will define the task descriptions of the male and female CHW, update the
training curriculum and plan and implement their training. The role of the CHWs
will be to increase community awareness of health problems, emphasize prevention
and provide minimum basic curative care. They will be trained and supervised by
health workers from the local RHC/BHU, and they will receive a kit containing
essential drugs as well as contraceptives.  The project will provide all the
training inputs for both trainers and CHWs.   Based on a review of existing
experience, a CHW training curriculum and materials, guidelines for recruitment,
sustainability and implementation strategies will be developed. The CHW will be
selected by their fellow villagers according to criteria such as age, literacy,
and commitment to serve the community voluntarily. There is, however, a need to
sustain these volunteers in money or in kind in order to maintain their
commitment. One possibility among others which will be tried is the selling of
drugs by the CHWs in order to create a revolving fund which will be used to
remunerate them and to buy replacements. In order to avoid problems such as lack
of accountability, overcharging and overprescribing which can be experienced in
such revolving funds, simple ways will be tested to monitor abuses or mishandling
of the drug kits. If successful, this system would be a way to rationalize and
monitor drug consumption, besides offering essential drugs at lower prices than
the open market.
6.        Additional staff.   The achievement of the project objectives is
dependent upon the availability of health workers, especially females. Human
resources in the health sector are characterized by shortage of female workers
especially in Balochistan. Increasing the number of female health care workers
will be achieved through a series of interventions which are described in
Annex 5. In Balochistan, the project will include the salaries of 90 FHT/LHVs,
while in both provinces it will support incremental transport and minor equipment
costs of female paramedical staff for increased outreach activities.
7.         Strengthenine the referral aXstem and emergencv handling capacitl will
increase the credibility of the health system. In Balochistan, some 36 district
hospitals and RHCs will be provided with a labor room and about 22
district/tehsil hospitals will serve as first referral services for obstetric
emergencies.    They will be  equipped  to handle  intravenous  (i.v.)  fluid
rehydration, i.v. antibiotic and oxygen therapy for infants, forceps delivery,
vacuum extraction and Caesarean Section besides offering the capability to
diagnose and stabilize complex obstetric and pediatric problems. The project
will support the costs of equipment, incremental drugs and replenishable items.
Such centers must have a female Medical Officer (MO) with internship training in
Obstetrics-Gynecology and six months additional Obstetrics training and a male
MO with two months training in anaesthesia. Given the projected schedule for
training it is anticipated that 50 Female MOs and 100 Male MOs will receive such
training. There will be six divisional second referral centers with labor rooms,
a functioning radiology unit; four of these will have a blood bank.   These
secondary referral units will manage major emergencies as well as the more
complicated obstetrical and pediatric cases. Such centers will have functioning



- 91 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 11
labor rooms. It is anticipated that each of these centers will have a surgeon/
gynecologist and anesthesiologist in addition to the MO team described in the
first level referral centers. Project support will include equipment for blood
banks, radiology units and anesthesia and 12 equipped ambulances with drivers.
Experiments will be conducted on alternatives to conventional emergency transport
and communications.   In the Punjab, many RHCs already have a female MO with
Obstetrics training and it will be easier than in Balochistan to strengthen the
referral system.  At the end of the project the first referral centers will
include 200 RHCs with walking blood bank, labor suites, radiology units and
laboratories, and 60 tehsil hospitals with walking blood banks, ultrasound
machines and incubators. Thirty district hospitals will function as secondary
referral centres with a blood bank or a walking blood bank, a functioning
radiology unit, an ultrasound machine, and a functioning labor room. The type
of staff in the referral centers are the same as described for Balochistan. A
functioning  communication  (radios/telephones)  and  transport  system  (30
ambulances) will link the peripheral to the referral units. In both Provinces
MOs will have additional training in emergency procedures, especially related to
obstetric emergencies.
8.        Selected health units, from dispensaries to hospitals, are run by a
variety of NGQ0. The provincial Health Departments are interested in expanding
their support and cooperation with the NGOs in order to increase health care to
people below the poverty line - the area of NGO interest. The activities of the
NGOs to be financed by the project are consistent with the above project
subcomponents, but the mode of financing will be different in the two provinces.
The Balochistan Government will channel funds to the NGOs as grants through
standard government procedures. The Punjab Government will channel funds to NGOs
through the Punjab Health Foundation (HF).  In Balochistan, the project will
support the upgrading of equipment of a female hospital, renovation of MCH
facilities belonging to three NGOs and the establishment of two 25-bed maternity
hospitals of the Family Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP). The project
will also support an experimental training and deployment of voluntary community
health workers (CHW) by FPAP.   In the Punjab, the project will support the
construction of two maternity hospitals, construction and upgrading of health
units and support two PHC rural models through NGOs.
9.        BRUNCH Centras will be uptraded and their equipment brought upto
standard. In selected areas where BHUs are not readily accessible, satellite
clinics will be established. These satellite clinics will be established in an
existing house in the village which will be provided free of charge to the
Department of Health. They will be staffed by a LHV from the BHU on days and
times agreed upon in consultation with the villagers. Travel allowances will be
provided to the LHV for attending the satellite clinic. The project will provide
an examining table, basic furniture, equipment (midwife and IUD kit), and
essential drugs. In Balochistan, where facilities are less available than in the
Punjab, some 30 dispensaries will be upgraded to offer MCH services like MCH
Centres, equipped, furnished and staffed, and accommodation for LHVs provided.
About 48 MCH Centres will be provided with LHV accommodation. In the Puniab, the



- 92 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 11
project will provide MCH baby resuscitation and weighing equipment to 2,300 BHUs
plus where necessary, BHUs will receive furniture, IUD tables and other
equipment. 101 satellite clinics will be equipped and furnished. A consultation
system via telephone or radio will be organized with a transport system allowing
transfer of emergencies between levels of care; and supervision, management and
training will be facilitated by the District Health Development Center (see annex
5).
10        ImDroved availabilitl  of essential sedicines and sullies.   PHC
facilities need large quantities of a small number of drugs but in practice are
stocked with a wide variety of drugs, many of which are not essential.  The
Medical Store Depots (MSD) have a list of basic drugs which should form the basis
of purchase orders every year. An Essential Drugs List (EDL) has been approved
in the Punjab and is under study in Balochistan. The implementation of the EDL
for different categories of PHC facilities is essential in order to eliminate
purchase of irrational drugs and standardize drug prescription. Another problem
is the thousands of private drug stores run by unqualified persons in violation
of sale rules. There is no immediate solution to this problem except to improve
the skills of untrained persons working at the private pharmacies through short-
term courses.   The project aims at a) implementing an EDL; b) developing
procedures and guidelines for decentralization of supplies and verification of
purchase of drugs at the divisional level including sample checking for quality
on a pilot basis; c) providing untrained persons working in private pharmacies
with short-term training courses to improve their skills; d) assessment of
existing budget allocations for drugs for the PHC outlets in the light of the
EDL. In Balochistan, the project will provide funds for incremental essential
drugs to 545 BHU/MCH Centres, 75 dispensaries, 55 RHCs and 52 first line referral
centers. Funds will be provided for three trucks and for salaries and training
of incremental staff for the MSD. In the Punjab, the project will provide funds
for incremental essential drugs to 1,600 BHU/MCH Centres, finance a study to
design the curriculum for training Pharmacy Assistants, identify potential
training places and design a training plan. A decentralized distribution system
will be implemented. In both Provinces, staff of the MSDs will be trained in
procurement, inventory control, distribution of drugs and equipment, and the
implementation of the EDL will be monitored.
11.       Family planning. At the village level, family planning education and
contraceptives (condoms and pills) will be provided by TBAs and CHWs under the
supervision and support of the BHU/RHC/MCH Centre staff who will supply similar
services as an integral part of MCH. IUD insertion will be referred to RHCs
where a lady doctor or LHV would have been suitably  trained.   Surgical
contraception will be made available at some of the first and all of the second
referral centers. The project will support:
a)      pre- and in-service training of health workers in family
planning service provision as a component of MCH. The project
will support training of MOs and paramedics as appropriate in
surgical contraception, IUD insertion and other forms of FP.



- 93 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 11
b)      ensuring a reliable supply of equipment, contraceptives and
information materials to all health facilities and providers.
The project will provide funds for the purchase of equipment
for training, service provision including information and
counselling materials, surgical equipment and contraceptives.
In order to have a reliable supply, a monitoring and
supervision system should be in place.  The Departments of
Health (DOH) will develop a reporting system of FP indicators
in collaboration with the Population & Welfare Department.
c)      improving the capacity of the Departments of Health to manage
the family planning component of the project. In the Puniab,
the project will support an additional post at grade 19 in the
Directorate to work with the Chief Inspectress of Health in
the detailed management of family planning.   A series of
'population awareness" workshops for all the Directors of
Health Services and appropriate training in family planning
program design and evaluation for staff of the Planning Cell.
12.       Nutrition activities will be part of the MCH component and will include
growth monitoring, nutrition education, provision of iron folate to pregnant and
lactating women through TBAs and health outlets, provision of vitamin A tablets
to high risk children through the health outlets.   Integration of nutrition
edication into health education programs focusing on breastfeeding, appropriate
weaning, increased dietary intake during pregnancy and diarrhea, consumption of
vitamin A rich fruits and vegetables and foods with vitamin C for iron
absorption. In both provinces, a nutrition section will be established in the
Director General Health's Office, manned by at least one senior technical staff
to undertake development of nutrition activities. He/she will liaise with MCH
and health education specialists, pre-service training schools, and participate
in policy development which will be coordinated by the Planning and Development
Department. Each Divisional Director will monitor nutrition activities at the
divisional level and will be assisted by the Divisional Inspectress of Health.
World  Food  Programme  (WFP)  activities  will  be  integrated with  the  new
arrangements for nutrition activities with experimentation for better targeting
of WFP commodities.   Consequently,  the project includes the provision of
essential micro nutrients, scales, growth charts, and educational material to
clinics and outreach workers, as well as funds for operational research, and
limited technical staff strengthening and support. Nutrition activities will be
fully integrated with the MCH and health education subcomponents.
13.       Coumnmicable diseases are the main causes of mortality and morbidity
in Pakistan.   The project will  integrate at the periphery most vertical
Communicable Diseases Control programs whose staff will be reorganized in multi-
purpose teams. These multi-purpose workers will be based at the BHU/RHC and will
cover one Union Council. In the Punjab, a Union Council area is less than in
Balochistan and therefore the multi-purpose team will be formed by two or three
workers who will travel by bicycles. In Balochistan, where distances are longer



- 94 -
Page 8 of 11
and logistics are more difficult, the multi-purpose team will be formed by four
workers. There are two possible options to divide the workload among the four
workers within the Union Council depending on local circumstances. The first
option would be to assign one worker at the static facility, the second worker
would cover with the bicycle the villages nearby and the other two workers would
cover the rest of the area by motorcycle. The second option would be to divide
the Union Council into two halves and each part would be covered by a pair of
workers on motorcycles. This new organization combined with a closer integration
with other PHC activities, will require a major re-training effort (see Staff
Development Component).  Disease surveillance will be introduced for monitoring
and control  strategies.   The project will  finance transport,  cold chain
equipment,  consumable  supplies  and  medicines.        Major  changes  in  the
organizational set up, merger of cadres, expanded role of out-reach workers and
the concept of working in a team, besides upgrading the technical and managerial
skills of almost all the out-reach workers and the supervisors will be
undertaken. Activities will include:
i.      a disease surveillance system will be implemented through
sentinel facilities for monitoring essential communicable
diseases to assess the impact of control strategies, identify
endemic areas and improve the quality of outreach services;
ii.     functional integration of all mono-purpose outreach workers,
improve their technical skill by continuing in-service
training and mobility through supply of proper transport,
develop links with the grass root workers like TBA/CHWs;
iii.    provision of minilabs  at BHU level  to facilitate  early
diagnosis and management of cases of malaria and pulmonary
tuberculosis;
iv.     ensuring improved supply of drugs;
v.      decentralization of authority and responsibility to the RHC
level to facilitate routine management decisions at the local
level.
The project will:
(a)     improve access through:
(i)      the training of male and female CHWs (Punjab only)
who will be responsible for minor curative services
and for preventative and promotive health activities
at the village level.   The female CHW/TBA will
provide education to mothers and the community on
CDC, and participate in immunization activities with
the existing team of vaccinators; and



- 95 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 11
(ii)     decentralization   of   tuberculosis   and  malaria
prevention to the village level by the CHW and of
laboratory and curative services to the BHU level.
Passive case findings and ambulatory treatment
(including   three   first-line   antibiotics   for
tuberculosis) will be offered at each BHU/RHC.
(b)     Improve the quality of services through:
(i)      integration    at  the  periphery  of  the vertical
programs such as Expanded Programme of Immunization
(EPI), malaria and tuberculosis into a coherent and
more cost effective primary health care system, in
order to improve the quality and cost effectiveness
of existing services for CDC. EPI will be expanded
to most BHU and MCH Centres where equipment and
supplies will be provided if needed.   The main
project inputs will be for: laboratory services with
240 minilabs in Balochistan and 1900 in the Punjab;
transport with 100 mopeds and 21 four wheel drive
(4WD) vehicles in Balochistan, 7,000 bicycles, 512
motorcycles and 113 4WD vehicles in the Punjab;
malaria control equipment will be provided in both
provinces and major replacements for cold chain
equipment will be provided to the Punjab.   The
project will finance the incremental recurrent costs
for: (i) Director of CDC and other staff in
Balochistan and for one epidemiologist and computing
equipment in the Punjab; (ii) in-service training
(see Annex 5) will be provided in TB surveillance,
laboratory    techniques,    malaria    microscopy,
epidemiology and other subjects  related to CDC.
This will upgrade medical and paramedical staff
skills and enable them to fulfill their new
responsibilities in an integrated approach;   (iii)
essential drugs and supplies, furniture and IEC
equipment will be provided on the basis of an agreed
list of essential drugs appropriate to each PHC
facility. The lack of drugs and supplies is a major
cause of under-utilization of peripheral health
facilities; (iv) a new Public Health Laboratory in
Quetta, Balochistan, will be constructed, equipped
and furnished. The project will support the costs
of one 4WD vehicles, incremental staff and staff
training.



- 96 -
Annax 4
Page 10 of 11
14.       The project aims at improving service utilization by supporting:
(i)     health and nutrition education activities which will be
expanded through: a) expansion of staff so that each district
will have a health education officer; b) the provision of
basic transport, production and reproduction equipment so that
both Departments can do part of their own materials
production; c) the provision of funds for the reproduction and
distribution of materials; d) provision of funds for
contracting studies, communication and media activities to
NGOs and private organizations; and e) in-service training for
health staff in effective interpersonal health education. The
project will establish a health education capability at the
divisional or district level by the end of the project and
will integrate health education into the routine work of the
primary health care system. Most health education materials
will be supplied from the provincial level, but some supplies
and equipment will be available at the districtl;
(ii)    increased community involvement with local health services
through an information campaign which would create population
awareness on health problems especially those related to MCH.
Awareness would motivate people to take direct action to
tackle their problems through the selection and sustenance of
TBA/CHWs and in some cases the formation of village health
committees.   People would be actively involved in taking
decisions to improve their conditions and through the
Committee or the Union Council they would test the feasibility
of community financing for their BHU and other health
services. Similar experiments in community health financing
will be tested with local BHU/RHCs.   Health staff will be
trained in communication techniques in order to create
community awareness, advise on the management of resources
given by the community and take decisions with a higher degree
of autonomy from the central level.  This will be possible
with decentralization of responsibility and accountability for
management, supervision and training.
(iii)   assessment  of  the  implementation  and  impact of project
activities through studies which will assess reasons behind
impact or lack of it, quality of services, public perception
of services and other topics related to improvement of
services.   In Balochistan, the mid-term and end of project
evaluation will be supplemented by quality assurance studies
of services delivered and operational research on mobility of
1 Health education activities are partly integrated into the proposed Provincial and District Health
Developent Centres (see below).



- 97 -
Annex 4
Page 11 of 11
female health workers or female patients and on home-made
weaning foods and ORS. In the Punjab, a study to assess the
most cost-effective modalities of service delivery, a mid-term
external evaluation of process indicators and an end of
project evaluation to assess impact will be conducted. These
studies will be integrated with the health system research of
the federal component (see federal component).
d) Urban PHC
15.       The majority of this subcomponent will be implemented in the city of
Lahore where the project will expand various well-integrated PHC activities which
are in place and are considered to be promising.  It will improve preventive
health services through provision of a vehicle with cold boxes to deliver
vaccines to each of the EPI and MCH Centres and provide equipment and vehicles
for malaria control.  The project will increase access to health and family
planning services by providing accommodation for LHVs at 23 MCH Centres and
constructing labor rooms at 33 MCH Centres. Quality of care will be improved
through basic obstetrics and IUD insertion training of LHVs and female MOs and
provision of contraceptives and IEC materials to the MCH Centres. The project
will provide transport for supportive and educative supervision. Equipment for
labor rooms will be provided to 63 MCH Centres and eight dispensaries will be
upgraded into fully equipped diagnostic units. The epidemiological surveillance
and operational research capacity of the Lahore Municipal Corporation (IMC) will
be strengthened.   The experience of the Lahore urban health system will be
evaluated in order to assess what works and whether it is possible to transfer
the successes to other urban areas of the Punjab. This study will be an input
to developing scientific plans for the provision of primary care services
elsewhere in urban Punjab. Additionally, small inputs such as minilabs, fridges
for vaccines and syringes will be provided in the cities of Bahavalpur and
Sarghoda in the Punjab. A study will be conducted in order to develop scientific
plans for the provision of primary care services in a variety of different types
of urban area. These plans will be implemented in Bahawalpur and Sarghoda after
the second year. In Quetta, Balochistan, the project aims to increase service
access by constructing four MCH Centres, providing two ambulances and supplying
health education materials. Quality will be improved through better coordination
of existing PHC activities, training of LHVs and female MOs in family planning
and provision of equipment for sanitation and malaria control.
16.       In order to assess the implementation of this project component, a
number of indicators and decisions to be made are summarized in the tables in
Annex 3.



- 98 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 10
PAITAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Health Staff and Management Develonment
A substantial part of the project's objectives will be realized through
quantitative and qualitative improvements in the health system's technical and
managerial staff. To achieve these changes, manpower investments, mostly in-
service but also in pre-service training, will be required. Since neither in-
service training nor management development are recognized line activities of the
provincial Health Departments, it will be necessary for the project to encourage
the institutionalization of these important activities.    To this end,  a
Provincial Health Development Centre (PHDC) will be established in Quetta,
Balochistan and Lahore, Punjab.   It will comprise four units:   management
development,   staff  development,   health   and  nutrition  education  and
research/monitoring. In addition, a modest District Health Development Centre
(DHDC) will be established in each divisional headquarters in Balochistan and in
each district headquarters in the Punjab, to assist the district teams' work and
to provide training and hostel facilities. In general, such facilities at the
district level do not presently exist.   Further details on the staffing and
functions of the PHDCs and the DHDCs are given in the main text (see the detailed
project description) and in Annex 6.
I.  Training
All Health Workers
1.        In both provinces,  the project will effect  improvements  in the
training, performance and support of all cadres of health workers through:
(a) review of curricula of pre-service and in-service education/training
by a special curricula and studies group established at the Provincial
Health Development  Centre  (PHDC).    That  group will  review  the
curricula for PHC, especially MCH, and related subjects.  Areas of
deficiency will be identified and curricula, training programs and
educational materials will be developed and tested and made available
to tutors/trainers in pre-service, as well as in-service, programs.
An educational center will be established at the PHDC to acquaint
teachers and tutors of all cadres of health workers with the
curriculum modules and educational materials.  Technical assistance
will be provided to the PHDC to carry out these activities;
(b) The development of a system for in-service training which is geared to
the learning needs of the trainees, is interactive, reinforced, and
supported during work.   Training will be organized so that each
individual will be able to reinforce and support the training of



- 99 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 10
health workers for which she or he is responsible. In each district
in the Punjab and in each division in Balochistan the staff of each
District Health Development Centre (DHDC) will consist of one senior
medical officer, one health/nutrition education officer, training
officers and support staff.   In the Punjab there will be also one
monitoring/evaluation officer at the DHDC. They will work with the
health workers within the district, assist in assessing learning
needs, contribute to preparing curricula and training programs,
implement training, and evaluate outcomes through assessment of job
performance. In turn, this cadre of district trainers will have been
trained and supported by a provincial group of master trainers located
at the PHDC.  Training facilities will be provided at the district
level.
In the first and part of the second project year, a cadre of potential
master trainers will be given intensive training by experts.   The
experts will be both local and expatriate and will eventually become
the counterparts  of the master trainers.   The master trainers,
supported by their counterparts, will conduct a workshop to train a
cadre of trainers from the districts, refresher training will be
conducted annually. The master trainers will be conducting training
sessions for district trainers until each district has a small group
of trainers.
Following their initial training, the district trainers will conduct
in-service training workshops for various cadres of health workers.
The district trainers will be supported by the master trainers for
these activities.   Every year, the district trainers will receive
training to refresh and further develop their skills.
Information generated through assessment of learning needs of health
workers and the impact of in-service training will be conveyed to the
PHDC curricula studies group and then to those responsible for pre-
service programs.
(c) Initiating in-service training to ensure that all cadres have adequate
knowledge and skills for allotted jobs - the focal group will be the
cadres of workers employed at the BHU, RHC, and tehsil hospitals.
(d) The strengthening of MCH services and integration of vertical programs
will result in changed roles and responsibilities of many health
workers.  The Staff Development Unit at the PHDC will have overall
responsibility for the revision and development of job descriptions
that reflect job expectations.
(e) Integration of in-service training in the areas of nutrition, health
education and communicable disease control within the general in-
service training program for all cadres of health workers.   The
objective is that all health workers perceive knowledge and skills
relative to these areas as integral to carrying out their job
responsibilities.



- 100 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 10
(f) Addressing the training of adequate numbers of female health workers
and their recruitment and retention in posts in rural areas through
conducting social studies on recruitment, retention in training
programs and career posts, improving strategies for increasing the
number of female health workers available, and occupying service posts
particularly in the rural areas.   In Balochistan, a Recruitment
Coordinator post will be designated at the PHDC. The Coordinator will
develop and implement a recruitment plan, liaise with the principals
of the female health and family welfare training schools, liaise with
the other members of the PHDC and coordinate recruitment efforts of
girls for paramedical schools. There will be two mobile recruitment
teams staffed with a full-time LHV, FHT, Nurse and a driver. They
will visit girls and teachers in high schools, and girls' parents and
community leaders to inform them about training and career
opportunities of health workers.   They will encourage teachers and
health workers to participate in the recruitment drive.  A Student
Health Education (SHE) program will be developed at the PHDC and
introduced to provide health education to girls in their senior school
years, and to introduce girls to the work of females in the health
professions. A Parent Education Program (PEP) will be undertaken to
aid parents overcome the stigma they attach to having their daughters
enroll  in  careers  as  female  health  workers.         Additionally,
administrative steps will be taken to relax training school admission
policies and dates.  During training, stipends will be increased and
transport allowances provided. In order to improve staff retention in
rural areas, various approaches will be tested including: (a) bonus
after completion of bond period, one advance increment on serving one
year after the bond and two advance increments on serving three years
after the bond period; ; (b) hard areas incentives; and (c) award of
certificate for length of service. In the Punjab, where the problems
are less difficult, the approaches will include: (a) allow non-
residential pre-service training; and (b) relax admission criteria for
pre-service training.   To increase staff retention in rural areas,
approaches to be tried include: (a) establish policies on posting
serving couples to the same station; (b) liberalize policy of leave of
absence (leave without pay) up to five years; (c) female staff should
have preference for housing in rural health facilities; (d) allow more
pay for night duty; and (e) hard areas allowances.
Pre-service training
2.        The Second Family Health Project will be implemented in parallel with
the proposed Health Care Development Project of the Asian Development Bank (ADB).
For female paramedical staff in Balochistan, the ADB project is proposing to
finance three Public Health Schools, two Nursing Schools, one paramedical
technician school and a (male) Health Technician School. These would meet the
province's requirements for new training facilities for the next decade. The
Second Family Health Project will provide small inputs to strengthen existing
institutions including the Quetta Public Health School through provision for
additional teaching and support staff, one vehicle, a student bus for transport
to field sites, minor renovations, and a fully equipped labor room. The quality
of the training at the Sandeman School of Nursing at Quetta is adversely affected
by the lack of qualified tutors. Support under this project to the school will



- 101 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 10
consist of provision of additional teaching and support staff and student
transport. Existing Female Health Technicians will receive a six month course
in midwifery in order to bring their level approximately equal to that of the
Lady Health Visitors.    Also  the pre-service  training  for  Female Health
Technicians (FHT) will be extended from the present 18 months to 24 months to
include six months of midwifery. These needs will be met through the expansion
of the two Female Health Technician (FHT) Schools at Quetta and Khuzdar which
will be used for both pre and in-service midwifery training. Once the in-service
training is complete, the facilities will be used to expand the pre-service
training capacity. Support to be provided under this project to each FHT School
will consist of (a) constructing, equipping and furnishing of a hostel for 40
students, an MCH Centre and accommodation for additional teaching staff; (b)
construction of an additional classroom and three offices at each school;(c)
additional teaching resources; (d) three vehicles for transporting of students
to field sites and for domiciliary midwifery services; and (e) additional
teaching and support staff. The Controller, Nursing Examination Board will be
provided with one vehicle and office equipment. At the Department of Community
Medicine of the Bolan Medical College in Quetta, a Health Education Cell will be
established and BHUs near the College will be strengthened for use as training
sites.
3.        In the Puniab, for female staff the ADB Project proposes to upgrade 10
Nursing Schools, one Post-graduate College of Nursing, one Dental Technician
School and establish 18 small Nursing Schools, two Public Health Schools, one
Paramedical College and one Dental Paramedical School.   In order to provide
midwifery training to FHTs and to increase the output of LHVs the Second Family
Health Project will provide for the construction of a new school building, hostel
for 100 students, staff residences, incremental staff, equipment and transport
at the existing Public Health Schools at Lahore and Multan.  Construction of
schools, hostels, residences, furniture, equipment, transport and incremental
staff for two new Public Health Schools at Chakwal and Sahiwal will also be
provided. The College of Community Medicine in Lahore is the main institution
in Pakistan providing training in public health.   It has a critical role in
preparing staff for leadership roles in public health and in the development of
an effective and efficient PHC system. The project will provide assistance in
the form of two full-time senior expatriate faculty members who will assist the
Principal in developing a strategy for the institution. They will assist in
elaborating research proposals and contribute to the development of the permanent
staff.   Fellowships for full-time study for two years abroad to prepare new
faculty members will be provided as a means of developing a critical mass of
qualified staff on a long term basis. The Project will also provide transport
for student field work.
In-service training
4.        In-service training will be geared to the learning needs of the
workers, interactive, reinforced and supported in the work environment.  It will
be integrated with supervision and provided as close as possible to the work-
place.   In-service training will ensure that the health workers have the
necessary knowledge and skills to perform roles associated with the objectives
of this project based on the primary health care concept. There is a need to
have a cadre of master trainers and trainers who will work with specific cadres
of workers, assist in determining learning needs, prepare training courses and



- 102 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 10
materials, implement training and evaluate outcomes through job performance. All
trainers, including the master trainers will be given refresher courses on a
regular basis. All in-service training will follow a similar format, that is
initial training followed by regular refresher training.    The Health Human
Resources Development Cell of the Provincial Health Development Centre (PHDC)
will have overall responsibility for the development of learning resources as
well as for the training itself.
5.        In Balochistan, the project support for in-service training includes:
(a) MCH/FP:
- 100 male MOs will receive training in anaesthetic procedures at the Sandeman
Hospital. Agreement to return or accept a posting outside Quetta will be a pre-
requisite condition for acceptance into the program.
- about 50 female MOs will receive training in obstetric/gynaecology in
complications of childbirth, minilaparatomy, low forceps delivery and vacuum
extraction at Sandeman Hospital;
- 21 Assistant Inspectresses of Health Services will receive training in MCH,
management and supervision;
- training in MCH/Nutrition will be provided to 300 LHV/FHTs;
- training in family planning (FP) will be given to 30 nurses; and
(b) CDC:
- training in TB surveillance will be given to 50 MOs of RHCs, the training will
be given at the TB Centres and will be provided by the staff of the Centres
- in CDC for 480 male MOs and in supervision for 140 CDC supervisors;
- six drug inspectors will be trained at the National Institute of Health
Islamabad in training and supervision of persons in retail drug outlets;
- basic laboratory techniques will be taught to 200 male Health Technicians and
40 laboratory assistants;
- training in malaria supervision/CDC surveillance for 1,110 vaccinators, the
training will be provided at the worksite with the CDC supervisor as the trainer;
- training in epidemiology for 24 Assistant District Health Officers at the
College of Community Medicine in Lahore; and
- training in food sampling for 150 food inspectors, will be provided by the PH
lab staff.
6.        In the Puniab the training includes:
(a) MCH/FP:
- 3,500 midwives and 2,000 LHV/FHTs will receive training in MCH. The training
will be given at the RHCs.
- 900 nurses at the tehsil hospitals will be trained in MCH/FP;
- 304 female MOs in FP and 170 LHV/FHTs in IUD insertion;
- 160 female MOs and 70 urban LHVs in obstetrics, under the supervision of a
gynecologist;
- 75 male MOs posted to the referral centres will be trained in anaesthesia. The
training will be given under the supervision of an anaesthetist; and
- 32 male MOs in vasectomies;
(b) CDC:
- 480 supervisors of multi-purpose workers at the tehail level, and 62 at
district level will receive training in supervisory techniques and communication
skills;
- 6,200 multi-purpose outreach workers will be trained in communicable diseases
control and prevention and communication skills in health and nutrition
education;



- 103 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 10
- 2,400 male Health Technicians, 260 microscopists and 300 laboratory assistants
in laboratory techniques, the training will occur at RHCs;
- 31 senior microscopists in microscope repair;
- 40 drug inspectors, and 3,100 dispensers in drug management; and
- 300 male MOs in TB surveillance and 2,700 MOs in communicable disease control
and prevention.
7.        In both provinces the project will support the costs of tutor training,
staff costs for trainers, course expenses and consultants.
II. Organization and Management
8.        The aims of the Organization and Management component are to strengthen
the provincial health systems through:
(a) increasing managerial capacity and improving managerial and
supervisory performance at the provincial and district levels
primarily through training;
(b) improving provincial and district level managerial systems and
procedures;
(c) improving and making operational a management and supervisory system
for primary health care facilities at provincial and district levels;
(d) developing an expanded and better integrated monitoring, evaluation,
financial and operations research capacity primarily at the provincial
level and later at the district level;
(e) increasing resources for management and supervisory functions, at the
provincial and district levels; and
(f) furthering decentralization of real decision making authority as well
as beginning involving others outside the public sector health
infrastructure in health management decision making in a more
structured objective manner.
9.        The  blending  of  these  interventions  with  technical  elements,
particularly nutrition and health education, is designed to help integrate such
activities into the staff's normal tasks in the same manner as improved
management and supervision.    Further,  the basic  integration strategy for
management performance improvement is in-service training reinforced by
supportive supervision. This is the saoe strategy as for nutrition and health
education.   Therefore, linking these with management development activities
should assist in ensuring they are more effectively integrated into PHC staff
tasks.
Each of these sub-components are elaborated below:
(A)  Increasing caRacity and imRroving Rerformance of managerial staff
10.       The increases in managerial capacity at the provincial and district
levels will come through the PHDC and DHDCs. The DHDCs will require incremental



- 104 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 10
staff for the paramedical trainers and health education staff. The improvement
in managerial job performance at all levels will come primarily through in-
service training. There will be a variety of courses which will be developed for
managers at the various levels of health system operations.
(a) Provincial level
In-service Management Development Workshops
11.       The staff of the PHDC will conduct internal workshops to develop the
workshops that they will deliver to the district staff. The initial workshops
will be about three weeks in duration and will be conducted by the external
technical assistance staff. There will be one for PHC management and another for
hospital management.   These will be followed by a one-week course revision
workshop, probably at the beginning of the second year of the project. There
will then be a curriculum development workshop of two weeks every year
thereafter, in order to update the content and revise training methodologies.
Orientation and Rlanning course for health administrators
12.       This is an important activity which will serve as an in-service
educational program for administrators. It will include the following:
-    provincial level health planning;
-    provincial level health operations management;
-    provincial level monitoring and evaluation;
-    providing  information  about  and  discussing  local  health  care
development and research activities;
-    assisting the administrators in keeping them informed about national
and international developments in the field; and
-    initiating a planning process for administrative improvements.
13.       The  participants  are  expected  to be  all  the  key  Secretariat,
Directorate and Divisional managers, including those who are special project
directors and those in charge of health planning in the Planning and Development
Department. Materials from these workshops will also be used to develop the
provincial level health manager's handbook.
(b) District and Tehsil Level Institutional Management. Staff DeveloRment
and Supervision. and PHC Technical Training
14.       All district level health service managerial staff and medical officers
serving in PHC facilities will undergo technical primary health care training
followed by refresher courses.  This will be needed for the duration of the
project as medical officers have had little or no public health training as part
of their pre-service education. It will also serve to keep up with technological
developments in public health practice and care.
15.       The same group of staff will also be trained in managesent. sunervision
d community relations.  The project's objective of obtaining higher levels of
service utilization will depend on the capacity of managers to build trust and
obtain active cooperation from the communities. This requires particular skills,
leadership and commitment to coimunity involvement. A key task of managers is



- 105 -
Annex 5
Page 8 of 10
to bring the services and the communities together.   Therefore, during this
training, there will be specific exercises for managers to practice managing
community relationships.
(c) Nutrition Management
16.       The main aspects of the nutrition program in the project will be:
(a)  Better  nutritional  practices.    To provide  women,  families  and
communities with sound knowledge of good health and nutrition
practices, with particular emphasis on management of early and
exclusive breast-feeding, timely introduction of supplementary foods,
and the nutrition of pregnant and lactating women;
(b)  Growth monitoring and promotion, coupled with the above;
(c)  Hicronutrients.  For anemia to make iron - folate available in pre-
natal and post-natal clinics, and Vitamin A where needed.
17.       A Nutrition Unit as part of the PHDC will be established.   The
functions of the unit will emphasize:   (i) gathering and making available
existing knowledge on nutrition; (ii) assisting in preparing nutrition policy;
and (iii) making such policy operational through various programmatic
interventions. The staffing of the provincial Nutrition Unit will include a
physician, one nutrition educator, one media research officer, one design
officer, one projectionist and one media specialist.
18.       Orientation and training are essential for all those involved in the
promotion and implementation of nutrition activities. Nutrition education and
demonstration procedures will be integrated into the technical in-service
training.  After health staff have integrated nutrition education into their
tasks, some orientation will be given to members of Union Councils and leading
community members through interpersonal communication.
(B) ImDroving Provincial and District Level Managerial Systems
19.       One of the problems with improving management in health systems is that
the job tasks and the related operational procedures are unclear.  This sub-
component will develop managers' manuals for each major type of managerial
position at the provincial, district, and tehsil levels. These manuals will take
each item of the job description and define exactly how it is to be carried out
and provide samples of all the relevant planning, requisition, monitoring and
reporting forms as well as other official instructions. In this process, out of-
date procedures and systems will be identified and modified as necessary. These
manuals will also serve as a basis for training. This activity will be intensive
for the first three to four years of the project, but maintained as an ongoing
function as systems and procedures are ever-changing.
(C)  ImDroving Management and Supervisory System for PHC
20.       The project will facilitate management and supervision by the DHOs'
office.   In particular,  the field supervisory tasks of the ADHO's will be
supported and regularized.   The ADHOs will visit each PHC facility in the



- 106 -
Armex 5
Page 9 of 10
subdivision/tehsil at least once a month and review, assist and plan its work.
These visits will feed information into the Management Information System (MIS)
and in turn supply analyzed information back to health facilities.
21.       The district team will produce an annual District Health Development
Plan, which will be an aggregation of local plans for every facility. The plans
will start simply with only one or two items being planned; for example, drug
supply and/or equipment maintenance. The experience of this regularized planning
and supervision will be linked to the in-service training so that they mutually
reinforce changes in performance.
(D) Developing. Monitoring and Operations Research CaRacity
22.       The capacity for program monitoring is being built up, but needs rapid
expansion if it is to provide a basis for improved data-based decision making.
Capacity for operational research will also be built up to address strategic
questions for health care development, not answerable through available
information.   The first steps for operations research will be taken by the
Research, Evaluation and Monitoring Unit of the PHDC.   They will define the
research needs with the provincial and district managers. Early in the project,
operations research will be a subject covered in an action planning workshop
which should reach agreement on three or four research priorities. These should
then be planned by the staff of the Unit and carried out by a research firm, NGO,
University or similar organization on a contract basis.   Assistance will be
available through the research component of the Federal Ministry of Health.
(E) Increasing Resources for Management Functions
InRrovement of the Management and Financial Information System Design and
OReration
23.       The current management information system collects a considerable
amount of information, but much of it never leaves the facilities or the
district.  In addition, facility and district managers are not taught how to
aggregate, analyze, and use available information in their planning or
operational decision making. Therefore, little use is made even of available
information.
24.       For the provincial level and below, the Child Survival Project has
developed a PHC-oriented data collection and analysis system. This sub-component
will aim for some further MIS expansion, namely:
(a) integration of the MIS system and expansion to the district level with
computerization to allow better data analysis and quicker feedback to
PHC managers; and
(b) further development and use of the database, developed in 1989/90 with
the assistance of the ADB, so that additional district and provincial
data are maintained and can be used in decision making.
25.       On the financial side, at the provincial level, the annual sector
budget exercise is faced with the dilemma of inadequate and inappropriate
expenditure figures compounded by unsatisfactory mid-term revised estimates and



- 107 -
Annex 5
Page 10 of 10
improperly functioning reporting against approved PC forms. Through the project,
a provincial level analysis will be undertaken which will describe and appraise
the existing system, and recommend system and implementation improvements
including a program for their introduction. Similar changes, as appropriate,
will subsequently be implemented at the district level and below, linked with the
other district management development activities. Also, as a short-term step,
a simple bi-annual financial reporting system will be introduced, both for the
development and recurrent budgets, to facilitate sectoral financial monitoring.
Transport and Communications
26.       Each DHDC will be provided with one vehicle for supervision and
collecting staff for in-service training programs. Appropriate POL and TA/DA
will also be provided in order to facilitate the visiting program to health
facilities, distribution of materials and education activities.
(F) Involvement of Other Parties in Health System Management
27.       While a final decision on whether District Health Boards would be
formed at the district level has yet to be taken, it is expected that any such
body would be an advisory and would review progress, make broad recommendations
for health care development and seek public support. Health status indicators
and the system's delivery would be reviewed at meetings. The District Health
Officer would be responsible for the initiation and review of the district's
health development for the Board. The District Health Boards should probably
include, inter alia, staff from the district administration, women's
organizations, several health staff including a representative of female health
workers, representatives from the Population Welfare Department and the local
government health system and representatives of private practitioners.
28.       Inter-sectoral collaboration could also evolve from the communities'
demands at the Union Council level. The health manager would need to attempt to
facilitate development in other sectors as well as negotiate for other or
additional resources from the DHO's office. Potential inter-sectoral programs
include water supply, education of females, and control of use of dangerous
psychotropic drugs.
29.       The complexity of logistics and the size of the different districts,
especially in Balochistan, necessitate more decentralization of decision making
and more involvement of the public in planning public health services. This will
be achieved through:
(a) Following increased management capacity, the implementation of
decentralization of assignments to lower levels. This will include
financial and personnel management.
(b) Decentralization of management will be combined with decentralization
of services: the BHU will be made the center of PHC in the Union
Council and provide as comprehensive services as possible, including
a mini-laboratory, according to circumstances and staffing.



- 108 -
Page 1 of 7
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Public Health Administration. Project Organization & Ioplenentation
1.        After an introductory paragraph on the federal structure, this annex
focuses on the structure of the provincial level public health organization and
on how the proposed project supported sub-programs and their implementation
arrangements at the provincial level relate to it.
Public Health Administration
Federal Level
2.        The Ministry of Health (MOH), in association with the Ministry of
Planning and Development and Ministry of Finance, is responsible for health
policy-making.  With the exception of the provision of health services for
government employees and containment of communicable diseases (such as malaria),
KOH is =  responsible for providing health services directly.  It coordinates
health service provision through the provincial Health Departments and
independent autonomous bodies such as the National Institute of Health.1
Organization charts for the health services at federal and provincial levels are
presented in Charts LA, 1B and lC.  The federal government retains overall
responsibility for the coordination and orderly management and development of all
health services. The main work of the MOH is carried out through the Minister,
Secretary and Director General of Health to whom report a range of deputy
director generals, deputy secretaries and project directors.
Provincial Level
3.        Provincial Departments of Health have responsibility for providing
health services. The provincial Secretary formulates health policy, exercises
final control over the budget and has direct control over teaching hospitals and
special institutions. The provincial Director General of Health Services (DHS)
is responsible for preventive and curative services; all District Health Officers
(DHO) and Superintendents of District Hospitals report to him as do all
provincial heads of 'priority programs' and vertical programs, e.g. imuunization,
basic health services, maternal and child health headed by the Inspectress of
Health Services,  and malaria control.   Lack of coordination between the
Secretariat and the Directorate often hinders smooth implementation. Significant
decisions relating to districts, e.g., appointment of middle level and senior
I/ Other fedoral governant organisations which provide basic health services include the armed forces,
Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Kasbhir Affairs and Northern Areas and various public enterprises.



- 109 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
staff and budget allocations, are made at the provincial level. Organizational
arrangements differ somewhat between provinces as shown by Charts lB and 1C.
District Level
4.        District services include (a) a district health office headed by a DHO
reporting to the DHS; (b) a District Headquarters Hospital, headed by a Medical
Superintendent also reporting directly to the DHS; (c) tehsil hospitals, Rural
Health Centres, Basic Health Units, dispensaries, and Maternal and Child Health
Centres reporting to the DHO; (d) local management of vertical programs reporting
on technical matters to the respective provincial heads of each program, e.g.
immunization and malaria control and to the DHO on administrative matters;
(e) municipal health services (including environmental sanitation) controlled by
municipal authorities; and (f) population welfare, through a District Population
Welfare Officer, who is at the same level as the DHO but reports to the
provincial Secretary/Director General Population. Thus, there are minimally four
district level officers, who have to coordinate the provision of health services.
In the larger towns and cities, a major part of the establishment, maintenance
and management of hospitals and health centers, and environmental health and
sanitation are assigned to municipal committees and corporations; a few of these
operate sizeable systems. (Proposals have been made to establish District Health
Boards in each district. While their exact functions have yet to be decided, it
is likely that they will be advisory and include representatives of the Health
Department and of other departments and authorities concerned, together with
representatives of other interested organizations including NGOs.)
5.        DHOs have responsibility for overall health matters in their district.
However, in practice, DHOs lack the authority needed to appoint, dispose and
discipline staff; manage budgets and authorize repairs; and plan and coordinate
the activities of their districts.   Moreover, their social status compares
unfavorably with those of District Hospital Superintendents, creating serious
disincentives for preventive versus curative medical work (staff are
interchangeable between these posts).
Pro.ram and Proiect Organization
6.        The proposed program and integrated project organization includes the
establishment of:
(a) Program Steering Committees, which will be chaired by the provincial
Secretary of Health and include the Secretary of Population Welfare, Director
General of Health Services, senior representatives of Finance, Planning &
Development, Communications and Works, senior DOH staff and representatives of
cooperating local bodies such as universities, medical colleges, municipalities



- 110 -
Annix 6
Page 3 of 7
and NGOs2.   The Project Directors will be the member/secretary and the
Committees will meet initially at least every three months; attendance is
expected to be at most around twelve to facilitate decision taking;
(b) Technical Committees, chaired by the Directors General of Health Services.
These committees will capitalize on the knowledge of the specialists, inside and
outside government but at a lower level than in the Steering Committee, to
resolve rapidly operational problems that arise. The Technical Committees will
meet monthly during the early stages of implementation and less frequently
thereafter;
(c) Additional resources to strengthen the implementation capacity of the
provincial Departments of Health; and
(d) Provincial Health Development Centres (see below).
Program and Project Implementation
7.        The proposed project is part of the provincial development program and
will be implemented by the existing organization and structure of the two
provincial Departments of Health. The priority sub-programs supported by the
project will be implemented through the provincial Departments of Health and
within those Departments the Deputy Directorates for (a) Basic Health Services,3
and (b) Communicable Disease Control (malaria, health education etc); the
Inspectorate of Health Services; and the Provincial and District Health
Development Centres. The Lahore Metropolitan Corporation and the Bahawalpur,
Sarghoda and Quetta Municipal Corporations (MCs) will implement the urban health
subcomponent of the project through their existing medical departments in the
MCs.  Additionally, Lahore MC will establish a small coordinating body to
facilitate progress.   The NGOs concerned will implement their subcomponents
through their existing structures. All Project activities will be facilitated
by strengthened management and implementation capacity. The additional resources
will especially assist with preparation of project documentation (program and
financial), obtaining the necessary Government approvals and monitoring
compliance with donor agreements, reviewing progress, and facilitating the start
of new activities.   The Punjab has established a special directorate to
coordinate external assistance and Balochistan is expected to make similar
arrangements. The directorates include a Director and Deputy Director of FHII.
Overall guidance for the project will be through the Program Steering Committee
supplemented by the Technical Committees (see Project Organization); a diagram
summarizing these links is at Chart 2.
VJ Representation would vary a little between provinces: for xoxmple, in the Punjab, senior representatives
from the Lahore Metropolitan Corporation will attend, while in Balochistan the Lady Dufferin Hospital (an
MM) will be represented.
jV In the Punjab, there is a Director for Basic Health Services: the position equivalent to the Deputy
Director in other provinces is entitled Director in the Punjab. Throughout thic report, when reference is
made to a Deputy Director, the relevant official in the Punjsb is a Director.



- ]l11 -
Anex 6
Page 4 of 7
8.        The Deputy Director for Basic Health Services and the Inspectress of
Health Services will be mainly responsible for implementing the sub-programs for
the first comDonent (Strengthening of Primary Health Services) within their
respective areas of responsibility. The Deputy Director for Communicable Disease
Control and other Deputy Directors concerned together with the head of the
medical department of each MC and the designated officers of the NCOs concerned
will be also involved in implementing this component. The Project Director will
be responsible for coordinating the timely delivery of project inputs, for
assisting with their effective integration into the package of services provided
at public health facilities, and for facilitating coordination with the Deputy
Directors responsible for hospitals and other Deputy Directors and equivalents
concerned. At the District level, one of the existing Assistant District Health
Officers will be responsible for coordinating project activities under the
overall guidance of the District Health Officer.
9.        For the second component (Staff Development), the implementation of the
upgrading and expansion of the female paramedical schools will be through the
regular DOH channels and therefore be mainly the responsibility of the
Inspectress of Health Services, the professional heads of discipline and senior
tutors of the institutions  concerned.    For activities  such as curricula
development and tutor training, the existing heads of discipline and Deputy
Director concerned will take the lead. Coordination of their work will be helped
by a small cross-discipline advisory group which will include representatives of
each of the main female cadres, of the Provincial Health Development Centre (see
below), and chaired by a representative from the Directorate of Health Services.
In Balochistan, the special efforts to be made for improving female staff
recruitment and retention will be led by two small teams of additional staff,
working under the direction of the Inspectress of Health Services and the
Director General.   The Project Director will facilitate all of the above
activities.
10.       The in-service training of the second component and the Management
Development component, the third component, will be mainly implemented through
the Provincial Health Development Centres and the District Development Centres.
Provincial Health DeveloRment Centre (PHDC)
11.       The PHDCs, one in Quetta and one in Lahore, will be responsible for
facilitating the implementation of the provincial level aspects of the management
development program, the human resources development programs, the health an
nutrition education program, and the supporting research and monitoring
activities. The Director of the PHDC will report to the Director General of
Health Services. Where suitable Government staff already exist, e.g. technical
trainers, they will be transferred into the PHDC; the remainder will be recruited
and trained. Substantial technical assistance has been included to support the
PHDC, especially in the early project years.   The Project Director will be
responsible for coordinating the timely delivery of project inputs to the PHDC
and for facilitating PHDC activities and their coordination with other on-going
provincial activities.



- 112 -
Ann- 6
Page 5 of 7
12.       The PHDCs (see Chart A) will comprise four units:
(a) The Management Development Unit will be responsible for supporting
provincial planning and relating it to management systems, management
information  systems,   logistics,  communication,   financing,  and
designing and implementing provincial level management training. It
will also assist with district level management and supervisory
training.
(b) The Staff Development Unit will be responsible for in-service training
development, both technical and non-technical aspects. It will assist
with assessing training needs, design and develop course packages and
modules, train trainers at divisional and district levels, and conduct
some provincial level courses.
(c) The Health and Nutrition Education Unit will develop and provide in-
service training to health professionals in communication skills.
Training for these tasks will be an integral part of most in-service
technical training courses rather than separate courses. The program
will also include: assistance for and coordination of the work of the
district health/nutrition educators; developing prototype health
education materials; and coordination with other related education
activities such as those of the Department of Population Welfare.
(d) The Research and Monitoring Unit will promote field studies (mainly
through contracts), coordinate monitoring activities and systems and
facilitate operational research.
The proposed staffing is:
Management Development Unit:
1    program director/planner (Director of overall PHDC)
1    public health doctor/PHC management trainer
1    hospital administration trainer
Staff Development Unit:
1    program director/in-service training planner
4    in-service trainers
Health and Nutrition Education Unit:
1    program director/health and nutrition educator
1    health and nutrition education planners/trainers
1    media research/design officers (in the Punjab there will be 2)
3    media specialists/technicians



- 113 -
Anex 6
Page 6 of 7
Research, Evaluation and Monitoring Unit
1    program director/health systems research specialist (only in the
Punjab)
1    evaluation officers (in the Punjab there will be 3)
General PHDC Support Staff
1    administration officer
1    accounts officer
2    steno- typist/stenographer
2    office assistant
2    computer operator
8    other support staff
District Health Development Centre (DHDC)
13.       At the district level, the above activities will be implemented through
DHDCs located in each district headquarters town of the Punjab. In Balochistan,
due to the small size of the districts and fewer numbers of health staff and
facilities, there will be one DHDC in each division headquarters town*. Each
DHDC will: (a) serve as a facility for training health staff, particularly mid-
level female personnel; (b) be a district health and nutrition education center;
(c) be a district health staff meeting center; (d) be a center for holding
workshops, seminars and training community leaders; (e) conduct small scale
studies; and (f) be a library and resource center. These Centres will be headed
by a senior medical officer supported by one health/nutrition education officer,
and 3-5 other training staff (including 2-3 LHV trainers and 1-2 multipurpose
paramedical trainers, with the addition in the Punjab of a monitoring/research/
evaluation officer). The staff officers of the District Health Office and the
District Headquarters Hospital will be resource persons for the DHDC. The head
of the DHDC will report to the District Health Officer on administrative matters,
as do all district staff, and to the PHDC on technical matters. The DHDC will
provide key assistance to the District Health Officer in orientating and
supporting the district health management teams.   The Project Director will
facilitate the establishment of the DHDCs either through the PHDC or the district
line management as appropriate.   The introduction of the DHDCs will follow the
same phasing as that of their respective districts. Chart B shows the structure
of a DHDC.
Construction Arranjements
14.       The provincial Departments of Communications and Works (C&W) will be
responsible for the civil works aspects of the project including site surveys,
line plans, working drawings,  tender documents and site supervision.   New
3. Reformose to the district level should be read as applying to the division levl in Ualochistn.



- 114 -
Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
construction in the project comprises: (a) medium sized facilities consisting
of public health schools in Chakwal and Sahiwal (Punjab), one hostel at each of
four existing female paramedical schools in Lahore and Multan (Punjab) and in
Quetta and Khuzdar (Balochistan), NGO maternity hospitals and schools in the
Punjab (2) and Quetta (1), an NGO public health school in Islamabad, and a public
health laboratory in Quetta (varying from US$100,000-US$700,000 equivalent per
institution); (b) two PHDCs and about 35 DHDCs which are modest in scale and
geographically dispersed (varying from US$100,000-US$250,000 equivalent); and
(c) 14 new MCH Centers (under US$25,000 equivalent). Standardized design for
all DOH facilities in both provinces will be used to the extent possible since
concepts are simple, functional and well adapted to local conditions.
Renovations/extensions to existing buildings include rehabilitation of two
government maternity hospitals, one in Balochistan (to be run by an NGO) and one
in the Punjab, extensions to female paramedical schools in Balochistan (2) and
the Punjab (2), and upgrading of about 220 existing MCH Centres and dispensaries
to include labor rooms and accommodation for LHVs. Most of the extensions are
small (under US$100,000 equivalent) while the bulk of renovation fall under a
much lower cost threshold (under US$20,000 equivalent).



- 115 -
Anmex 6
Chart 1
P ROVINCIAL HEALTH DEWLOPNMETCNR
PROVINCIAL
HEALTH
DEVEILOPDT
CENTRE
[ANAGEMENT           STA          HEALTH EDWCATION        RESEARCH
DEVKWFHKENT     DEVELOPfENT     & NUTRITION CELL        IONITONG    UNITS
[JOVE]                       j PLAN CAMPAIGNS        I       ___I
DESIGN & RUN     CURRICULUI|   PRODUCE MATERIALS           DESIGN
TRAINnNG       DEVEBLPMENT      COORD. NUT. ACT.       OPERATIONAL  FUNCTIONS
MIS DESIGN &      IN-SERVICE |S|                         IN-SERVICE
____________j     TRAININ             TRAININGTRAINING    FUNCTIONS



- 116 -
Anex 6
Chart 2
DISTRIICT
HEALTH
DEVELOPMENT
cnrm
l    ~ ~~~                    ~~~I .  l     l 1 ** 
|      N        CURICLUTM    [ PRODUCATIOMPL      *   DiTRIGN |
DIRVILORDrW   DICvCLOlfT        &NUTRITIOI!I       IESBURCH/lVAL UNlITS
AS R DQE,         DEFINK        PLAN CAMPAIGNiS &INGRT
DAr7AIT  IED                 IDCAL ACTMTIIS         MNTORN    FUCTIONS
PR_  URS       N_1IDS
*         ~~~*
N i(s         CIMCUlIM         PRODUCE SI PL          DZSIG      *
jCOOILDIlZlla    SINSCT &          MATERAS         *OPERATIOA  *FUCIONS
1& OPS LATIO      NOIFY                           R*SEARCH
* I FUTUR
MODIFY   ||TEINCAL           HEALTZH/NUT. RD.   *  N-SRviCE    *
& RIUN       IN&SEILVILCZ      IN-SEIRVICE    I    7RAINING   *FUNCTIONS
TRnAINIDNG      TR nAINnLc  I      TRAInI         *              l



1E  MILT 0.TN P00T
ESTIMIT   UWITIU                                                                   ESTIMW  mam  env  ft t)
U-ocl----- .......    ......    .....- *- ---  --* ---  -- ......  .....   ......   .....   ......   .....    ......   .....   ......   .....    ....
Twa        unit        MIt
of         .f        C_t       ......   ......   ......   ......  ------     ty Of    (AmpAts in  e000)                                _e
M;7Jaet   - - -.tIV                     IrVut       Ir9ut       t       9390%    9V/95    95/      9/7    97/9    Iewt          n/        94/95    9/M      9        97/9.    Caste
I     PStCIUL UllTt EVICE
1.1         Ca) Viletlsbod        TU kite           units       1.0e               9g0    1,200    10m    1,00         5.400         0       9      1,29     1,620    1,9         5,
Ibteesu                           rhep4tuniahlb      unite        250              1,900    3,100    4,000    6,400    16,000                475    7m       1,150    1,t00       4,0oo
NilWd       ab1 ECU e   r_         uw  _            emt       450000o                 *        2        14       14       40         0    3,600   5,400    6,300    0,300        2l,00
ha*m,wbd          a 7X      31,500                 a       12       14                 48          0      252     37       441       441       1,512
bt.b mint.        a2as       9.0                            a       20        34       02          0        0      72       1SO      306         Su
ieirnw          luI_        31,000                 14      2         42       02       145         0      429      w      1,8z     1,930       4,50
b  ULV         staff-ye      4,320                          2        4         I        14    e             *      g        177      355         021
cc) em servie"         Iob  uip         umits       2,000                33       33       31       SO       I50         0       o        u         0       100    t     00
at _m                  ItUtD  e         smite       2,90                 33       33       3.4    s5         150         0        7        7       at       Ica         305
bdiremcitet   smite           2,5001              33       33       31.       so       150         0       a5      a         U       120         375
kAp-             smite      25,000                                   20 D0             s0          0        0       0      s0o       750       1,200
_meinie         t_sim        15,000               40               150       275       545         0      0      1,200    2,250    4,125       0.175
sttite                    ateI.          m ito      6,875                 S        I                 13       37         0       55       55       55       DP          254
Clinics               oWd.ifry kit    smite         3,125                 a                 a       13        37         0       20       as       20       41          116
wI Skt           smits       200                   a                 a *     13        37         0       16       10       10       20           74
LIW t.-mmt    Lems           4,500                 a       1        24       37        a5         0       30       72       100      102        395
Cd) NON               sprdi,w           suite    200000                   5       10       10        5        30         0    1,000   2,000    2,000    1,000         6,000
t Civil                furniturw        smits       2,600                 5       10       10        5        30         0        13      20       26        13          70
Oiap   rias            LIV   c          site    450,000                   5       10        10        5       30          0    2,250    4,500    450      2.250      13,500
.5Apnt           smits       9,750                 5        10      10         5       30         0        49      96       9         49         29
btdaervu          a 78      31,500                 5       10        10        5       30         0       150     315      315       150         945
blt s int         a 2        9,000                          5        15      25        45         0         0      45      135       225         405
LIV            staff-yu     44,325                 5       15       25       30        75         0       222     665    1,100    1,330        3,324
aedicins        Ltsea       31,00W                 5        is      25        30        75         0      155     405      m         930       2,325
(C) olivery oe        eustcit. kit    emits         3,000                 a        a        a       12        36         0       24       24       24       36          108
at ilcS/houPs       fLd*utobte       smite       6,37                  a        S        a        12       36         0       Ss       55       55       f3          248
MN kit           smtunit    10,0 e                          a        a        12       36         0       s0       0o       00       120         360
medicines       Wwoun       100,0W                 5        1O       1        24        55         0      s50    1,0      1,600 2o,400         5,500
(f) Firmt t.rne        meqt             units      55,000                 5        5        5        7        22         0      275      275      275      365        1,210
ntreferl               01nsthesi eA   Lnit.    150,000                    5        5        5        7        22         0      750      750      750    1,050       3,300
Shod hu*          emits   1ISO0=                   5        5        5         7       22         0      750      750      750    1,050       3,300
aedicirna       Lssem       200o000                5        10      1s        22        52        0    1,0W0   2,eo0   3,00W    4,400         10.400
(i) NCN s"eces        X-ray             Lmits    200,000                           1        1        1         3         0        0      2        200      200         040
at divisinal          port. X-ry         nits      05,000                          2        2        2         6         0        0      170      170      170         510
leel (ndry            blood bnk         units    400,0o                   1        2        1                  4         0      400      3o0      400        0       1,000
rterrlt)               bulnes           units  1,000,000                  2        2        4        4        12         0    2,000    2,0W     4,000    4.0W       12, 00
veh earo          3105      100,000                2        2        4         4        12        0      200      200      400      400        1,200          l
00 a, p
POL             lumsum       15,000                2        *        S        12       26         0       30       60      120       10O        390
driver          ta.tff-yr   25,965                 2        4        8        12       26         0       52      104      205       312        675
(h) ContrCeptiv"                         us s          25   21,500   22,600   23,800   25,000   26,200   119,100       53S     5M5       5f5      625      655       2,975
i )ailth srvey        ba.Line (Lo)   mn-D    125,000             4                 4                 4        12       500        o      50         0      500        1,500



PAl3IAfl MALOCNISAM
KEC0    FMNILY NEALTN PUOICT
ESTIMATED SLMWTITIES
14-Oct-92     ------    -----                                                 _                                           _                    -
Type        Unit       Uni t
---------- -----------------------      of          of         cst      ------   ------   ------   -----     ------. Oty of   (Amounts Ifnft'000)                               Bae"
ubJect             Obejtivw              lpilt       rpa         as       93/94    94/95     5/96    96/97    97n9      iIrt    nn4    94/95    f/96    96/97    97/96           Costs
.........- -- -      -- -- - -- --    - -- -      .......   -- - -     -- --    --  --    -- --    -- --  _ -__-__-_ -  -- -   -----    .. ..    ---- -   ---   -   --- -
bet survw#ws       i-rn      62,500       24                                   24         8   1,500         0        0        0    1.500        3,000
WSening food           studv             _1-        125.000                          4                            4        0        0      5O        0        0          SOO
Trwport                tran  sqt          units     560.000                 1                                     1        0      560        0        0        0          5H0
_I_rit                  eralttnt         mi-as      125,000                 4        4                            a        0      5        500        0        0        1,000
t1i Ity assurue         Local toms       Im-r       125,000                 2        2         2        2         8        0      250      250      250      250        1.000
isseadt_          units      62,500                12        12       12       12        48        0      750      750      750       750       3,000
MCM AOaier       mn-rn      185,000        6       12        12       12        6        48   1,110    2,220    2,220    2,220    1.110        8ga.o
1.2          tta  new MMI           unstructlein     unts    540,000                    1        2        1                   4        0      540    1,060      540        0        2.160
Uruin                               aqip_li/m         units      60,000                 1        3                            4        0       60      180        0         0         240
hith                               nahltn             unIts    800,000                           2                            2        0        0    1,600        0        0        1,600
wvh rWeir    8lox            S000                            2                           2        0        0      160        0         0         160
furniture       tIum          6,000                 1         2        1                  4        0        6       12        6         0          24
btd  supw          9 71      37,800                 1         2        1                  4        0       38       76       38         0         151
bitding mnt.       9 28      10,t00                           1        3        4         8        0        0       11       32        43          *6
smitttlen             du  truck          units   1,200,000                 1        1         1        1         4        0    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200        4,800
duw tnek       0108         120,000                 1         1        1        1         4        0      120      120       120      120         480
tra_  tractor     units   1,000,000                           1        1        2         4        0        0    1,000    1,000    2,000        4,000
vh parts          mnits    1W,000                             1        1        2         4        0        0      100       100      200         400
letria                 mInt-fogWr         unwts     150,000                 1         1                           2        0      150      150        0         0         300
port. oger       iunts       25,000                  1        1                           2        0       25       25        0         0          so
1.3        (a) Medicat             trurk             units      810,000                 1        1                            2        0      810      810        0         0       1,620
MedicaL    Stores Dpot             r.frg truck        units   1,200,000                           1                           1        0        0    1,200        0         0       1,200
trLuck psres      units      81,000                 1         1                           2        0       81       81        0         0         1U2
rfrg tr psrsr   units    120,000                              1                           1        0        0      120        0         0         120
Dot                                POL              tuLiui      100,000                 1        3         3        3        10        0      100      300      300       300       1,000
Pubtic      Incremntal staff       officer         staff-yrs     74,880                 1         1        1        1         4        0       75       75       75        75         300
Iw lth                             dr*lvr         stsff-yrs      27,180                 1        3        3         3        10        0       27       62       82        82         272
Lob                                utclh           stsff-yrs     22,290                 1        1        2         3         7        0       22       22       45        67         156
TA drivr       attoucs        5,200                 1         3        3        3        10        0        5        16       16       16          52
Overseas training      8 weeks            trn,s     200,000                 3                                     3        0      600        0        0         0         600
Local study            EDL              lupm         50,OOO                 1                                     1        0       50        0        0         0          50
(b) Public             building          units   2,475,000                          508      508                  1        0        0    1,238    1,238         0       2,475
Nealth Lob             sqalmnt          tulp      5,625,000                                    1                  1        0        0        0    5,625         0       5,625
vehicle           unIts     450,000                                    1                  1        0         0        0      450        0          450
vsh isrss      8108          45,000                                    1                  1        0         0        0       45        0          45
furniture       Lumpsin      S,000                                     1                  1        0        0         0      825        0         825
chmicals        lutpsa      500,000                                    1                  1        0         0        0      500        0          500
btdg prvsn         a 7      173,250                          50X      50X                 1        0         0       87       B7        0          173
btdg mint.          821      49,500                                             1         1         0        0        0        0       SO           50
Opsating               POL              tumsu        60,000                                    1        1         2        0        0        0        60       60         120
Coast                   dd. rnng ests  tump         100,000                                             1         1        0        0        0         0      100         100     0  a x
Incrasntat             Nigher staff   staff-yrs    47,565                                     3        3          6        0        0        0      143       1U3         285    t.
Staff                  Driver          *taff-yrs     25,515                                             1         1        0        0        0         0       26          26      o -
TrainIng               oversea          mn-rn       125,000                 4                                     4        0      500         0        0        0         500      4.
Local           mn_n         20, O0                                   3                   3        0         0        0       60        0          60



PAKISTAN MLOCMISTAN
SECOD FAMILY HEALTH PROIECT
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES
14-Oct-9      .......     ......     .....     ------ ------   ------   ------ 92------   -----    ------   ......   ......
Type        Unit       Unit
------- ----------------- ------       of          of        Cost      ------   --       ------   ------   ------    Oty of    (Amounts in Rs 000) 
subJet             ObJctive             Irput        I rut      Re        93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/9S    Irput      93/94    94/95    95/96    96497    97/96      Costs
1.                                miniL;b           units      22,000                 16       75       75       75        241        0      352    1,650    1,650    1,650        5,302
Control                             Pad             units      35,000                 40       20       40                 100        0    1,400      700    1,400         0       3,500
ot                                 4WD dbL cabin     units    450,000                           6        6         a        21        0      450    2,700    2,700    3,600        9,450
moped. apree  3102            3,500                40       20        40                100         0      140       70      140        0         350
4WD dlbt *peree 01           45,000                 1        6         6        a        21         0       45      270      270      360         945
Coat-                              *Jr veh repir   units        60,000                           5        5         5        15        0        0      300      300       300         900
ceable                             EPI syrin_e   ulLLion   1,200,000                   2         2        2        2         a         0    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400        9,600
Dto_.e                             chiboroquir     mittion     200,000               0.4      0.4      0.5       0.5         2        0       S0       S0      100       100         360
spray ..          units       5,000                                  150      150       300        0         0       0       750      750       1,500
eLd chn spar_    units   1,000,000                 202      202       30       30X        1        0      200      200       300      300       1,000
To druis-RNC    lumpu        30,000                 S       16        24       32        S0        0      240      480       720      960       2,400
NinLab opwr    tulpam         7,000                16       91       166      241       514        0       112    -637    1,162    1,687        3,59S
POL nds         tsp.an        6,000                40       40        S0      100       260        0      240      240      4S0       600       1,560
FM 4WD         tLuss         67,500                 1        7        13       21        42        0       6S      473      878    1,41S        2,835
statirwry       Lupem      600,000                 1        1         1        I         4        0      600      600      600       600       2,400
iter_ntut steff        Director CDC   staff-yrs    121,410                  1        1        1         1         4       0       121      121      121      121        4A6
ADHOs          staff-yr.    74,800                                     5        9        14        0        0        0      374       674       1,048
stow           staff-yrs     44,325                 1        1         6       10        1S        0       44       44      26        443         79
peon           staff-yrs     22,290                 1        1         6       10        IS        0       22       22      134       223         401
Study                  CDC              lu_p         50,000                 1                                     1       0        5s        0        0        0          so
1.5         tArition unit          eip_nt             witts     70,000                           2                            2       0         0      140        0        0         140
butrf-      at Provincials leIl    furnitur          units      30,000                           2                            2       0         0      60         0        0          60
Ha lth  ysti           4 studies       tlips        150,000                 I        I        1         1         4       0       ISO     150       150      150         600
icronutrients  tLupo        300,000                          2         2        2         6        0        0      600      600      600        1,S00
Avsrtiliq                               Lumpei      500,000                          I         I        1         3       0        0      SW0      Soo       Soo       1,500
Aiwlt workpap                           LtuiA       100,000                          I         I        1         3       0        0      100       100      100         300
tncrmntal staff        dsp. dir. niut  staff-yr.   121,410                  1        1        1         1        4        0      121      121      121       121         486
chief tntrn    staff-yr.   121,410                  '        1         1        1         4       0       121      121      121      121         4S6
stno/AV ast stff-yrs         35,280                 2        2         2        2         a       0        71      71        71       71         22
driver         staff-yr.    25,515                  1         1        1        1         4       0        26       26       26       26         102
peon           staff-yr.     22,290                 2        2         2        2         8       0       45       45        45       45         1S
POL             tulisp       80,000                 1        1         1        1         4       0       80       S0        S0       S0         320
continpmies   Lutu_          30,000                 2        2         2        2         a       0       60       60        60       60         240
Local studie    LUmas        20,000        1        1        1                            3      20       20       20        0         0          60
Ilutrition  1dcational t t              Luip..     500,000                  1        1        1         1         4       0      500      500      500      500       2,000
1.6         LadnO ufferin            qir    t        units     547,000                  1                                     1      0       547        0        0        0         547
Private     opittL Nursinr         furniture          unfte     81,000                  1                                     1       0       e1        0        0        0          81
Sector      School                 book            lusp.        106,W00                 1                                     1       0      lOS        0        0        0          106
Studvtrnures           fertLouishipe    tuLua       18,360                 10       10       10        10        40      0       184      184      184      184         734
La  Dufferin Noep      eP_nt             units   1,700,000                           1                            1      0        0    1,700         0        0       1
COW exwfpent           100 ClWS         tuias    3,000,000                 20X      102      10        20         1      0      600      300       300      600       1,SOO ,I
nct. pitot study
NlM  iOK fcititss                        wnilts     35,000                 10        5        5                  20      0      350      175       175        0         700
FAP  NW puatta         emetructfon       units   9,000,000                          50X     5s                    1      0        0   4,500    4,500          0       9,000        0 - 
wquipwnt          units   1,992,200                                  1002                 1       0        0        0    1,992        0        1,992
furniture         units    S53,300                                   1002                 1       0        0        0      IS4        0         S%
FPAP llsp, burd        construction      units   2,925,000                 502      50X                           1      0    1,463    1,463        0         0       2,925



P*ZisTm SALOCH ISlAM
TEC1D FMILY  EALTH PROJECT
ESTUMATS MWTITIES
14-Ot-92                                               -                   ------   ------    -----      ------   ......  ------   ------   ....         ..
Typ         Unit       Llnt
---------- .......................      Of          of         Cost     ------ .  ...t..  ---    ------   ------ .Oty of          (Aouts In ItsIWO)                               Bea
hJct              tbjsetlw              Irpat        I.pt        Sa       93/94    94/95    95/96    96m       9796    Inrut       93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/91      Costs
aji t             Lints   1,137 500                         1005                          1         0         0   1,130         0        0       1,138
furniltur         units     487.500                         1005                          1         0         0     4U          0        0         40
bti*dspr           87         1,000               102      417       315                M35         0       102     417       315        0         535
1.7        Aact"-voust             wad_              wilts      200,000        3        3                                     6       600       m00       0        0        0        1,200
EzLe-                              cutAtat          -irn        125,000        2        2        2         1        1         8       250      250      250      125       125       1.000
atin                               consuutant       _nf-o       312.5eo                 1        1         1                  3         0      313      313      313        0         938
falLaisahp        units     125,000                                   12       12        24         0        0        0    1.500    1,500        3,000
hitth ad eutrcts  iunts    100,000        6        6         *        a        a        36       600      600       eo      g         800       3,600
Ap.   r         tump          s,is oo o5,  3        6         6        6        6        27       225      450      450      450       450       2,025
lrtlotaL  p elnawat  auith srylee                                                               S5343   39,296  67r927  80454   70.611         253,701
os
3 I-.2
O- _J
0
Ph,



PAKISTM SALOCHISTAM
SECOII FAMILY WALTN PIOJECT
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES
14-Oct-92    -------       .......    .....      ...... --    -       --- - ------ - ---                                         ......
15:56     Type         Unit        unit   ----Distribution of Ouwutitie ---- Totat -Distribution of Totat Bee Costs -                  Totat
-----------------------     of           of         Cost    ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Oty of   (Aunts in Re 000) 
SuJ.et              Objective            Irput        Irput       RS      93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97 97/96   Iorut   93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    Costs
.. _-  --   .............        ...............  -------  ....... . ------  ------     -- --   ...... . ------ . ------  .....  - - -  - - -  - - - - - -  ...... ... .............. ....... ......,,__............... ...
11     STAEF DEWELOPNT
2.1         (a) TSA TraininU       beem.               units    207.000              a      2      2               12        0    1,656      414      414        0     2,44
IKrc mod     -- Nbie team          furniture           units      10,000             a      2      2              12         0       S0       20       20        0       120
bidne surven         3 7S      144490            6       2     2               12        0      116       29       29        0       174
btdng  int.          a 2       4,140                    a      10    12        30        0        0       33       41       SO       124
Jewp                Lnits    250,000             2      1      1               4         0      500      250      250        0     1,000
veh Mores *r10X                25 O2 2                   1      1               4        0       50       25       25        0       100
POL t_ms          Lumpsua     SO,000              2     3      4      4        13        0      100      150      200      20        650
POL IIS           Lu_q*A       50.0O              1      1      1      1        4        0       SO       SO       SO       SO       200
TAJOA t_          Ilus        100,000            a      10    12    12         42        0       00    1,000    1,200    1,200    4,200
TADA INS          Lume&         3,600             1      1      1      1        4        0        4        4        4        4        14
(b) Dd trainin        .dwfry kit          units       1,0S0           140    SO      s      30      270         0      151       54       54       32       292
trni kit           units       3,000            150   150   200    200        700        0      450      450      600              2,100
am stipnid        lu_eum         500             25    25    25    25         100        0       13       13       13       13        SO
TU stipnd        hlmsu            SOO           50    75    75    100         300        0       25       38       38       SO       150
Aeistant               Jp                  units    450,000             5      1S                     20        0    2,25o    6,750        0        0    9 000
Inuetreaa_  of        vu spres             310X      45,000             5     1S                     20         0      225      675        0        0       900
Iealtb 
eota/veh          lupsum       67,500            5      20    20      20       65        0      338    1,350    1,350    1,350     4,388                    _
drives          staff-y,a      25,515             5     20    20    20         65        0       1Z8     510      S10      510     1,658                    _
mset inept      etaff-yrs     47,565             4      16    18    18         56        0      190      761      856      856     2,664
(e) Reruitumnt        feordinetr      steff-yra      74. SS      1      1      1      1      1        5        75       75       75       75       75       374
Progrm                 Jewp               units    250,000       1                                     1      250        0        0        0        0       250
vdh sparOs           3O1      25,000      1                                    1       25        0        0        0        0        25
POL               lut.as       S0,000      1      1      1      1      1        5       50       SO       SO       50       50       250
drivr           staff-yrs      25515      1      1      1      1      1        5       26        26      26       26       26       128
*--ecruit_nt        TV/ "               units      40,000             1      1                      2         0       40       40        0        0        SO
T_m              Jep                 units    250,000              1      1                      2         0      25o      20         0        0       500
whep rs              10X      25,000             1      1                      2        0       25       25        0        0        so
POL               luppmum      75,000             1     2      2      2         7        0       75      150      150      1SO      S5
LIV             staff-yrs      44325              1     2      2      2         7        0       44       89       89       89       310
PIT             etsff-yre      33,070            1      2      2      2         7        0       33       76       76       76       266
nurse           *taff-yr       53,460             1     2      2      2         7        0       53       107     107      107       374
9Wl            *taff-yre      53,460             1      2      2      2         7        0       53       10?     107      107       374
drier           staff-yr       25.515             1      2     2       2        7        0        26      51       51       51        179
TAJOA             lusps       70.000              1     2      2      2         7        0       70      140      140      140       490
perf pay          lum u       30,000              1     2      2      2         7        0       30       60       60       60       210
tem  trm         esesian       10,000             1     1                       2        0        10      10        0        0        20
wurkaiep            psu        10,000             4     3                       7         0       40       30       0        0        70
PEP mteri-ls          pFhlicity          luw        750,OO    SOX   100X   402   100X   60X          4       375      750      300      750      450     2,62S      1 3 
REcruitu_t NW         pblicity           lumpsem    750,000    SOX   100X   402   100X   60X          4       375      750      300      750      450     2,625    0:  Dr 0
SE _teriflLs                                                                                                                                                         eo  
INE proar             strtrnm          sessions       7,500             1      1                      2         0        a        8        0        0        15         r x
inrrve  kshp    *essfono      12,000             a      4      6               18        0       96       48       72        0       216      
Stipends         etuLants           *$ 000       1,000           720   7t0   930  1.200    3,630           0      720      7        930    1,200    3,630       0'
teacher            Rs 00        1,000           24    26    31    33          119         0       24       26       31       38       119



PAKISTAN MALOCHISTAM
SECOND FAMILY HEALTN PlOJECT
ESTINATED QUANTITIES
14-OCt-92                                                              -
15:56      Type         intt        WLlt   ----Distrfbutfon of Quantitie  ----  Total   -Distribution of Totel  se  Costs -               Totat
----------  -----------------------      of           of          Cost     ..----  - .- ---     ----- ...... Qty of       (Amount  In Rs 000)                            Bea"
SubJect              bjective            Irput         Irput        Re      93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/96   Input      93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    Costs
----    -   ----------------------     .......   .  .  ......  .  ....... . .  ....  ..... -- -- - --  - - - - -   ..-  - - -  .. - --  - -- - --  - ----  ----  ---  --- ...  ---  --- ...
htth  kre          Rs 000       1,000            24      26     31     38      119         0       24        26       31       38       119
(c)  fidoffery trainin  hoetel (40)       lutpsum   3.690,000             2                             2         0    7,310         0        0        0     7,380
for FITS               WHO wam             unwits    675,000              2                             2         0    1,350         0        0        0      1.350
Quetta wud Ihueder     Tutor accom         unfts     450.000              9                             9          0    4,050        0        0        0      4,050
LIV acom           units     450.000             8                              8         0    3,600         0        0        0     3,600
elcaroco            units     270.000             2                              2         0      540         0        0        0       540
offices             units      90,000             6                              6         0      540         0        0        0       540
NON ctr             wnits     540.000             2                              2         0    1,080         0        0        0     1,080
quipment         tlmsun       270,000             2                              2         0      540         0        0        0       540
furniture         lumpust     350.000             2                              2         0      700         0        0        0       700
50 *eater           units   1,200.000             2                              2         0    2,400         0        0        0     2400
vh speres            910X     120.000             2                              2         0      240         0        0        0       240
16  ster            units     450.000             2                              2         0      900         0        0        0       900
v_h star.            912X      45,000             2                              2         0       90         0        0        0        90
16 motor            units     450,000             2                              2         0      900         0        0        0       9w0
vwh Weres,            1ox      45,000             2                              2         0       90         0        0        0        90
POL               lutio,s     315,000             2       2      2      2        8         0      630       630      630      630     2,520
other oper.       tiou         50,000             2       2      2      2        a         0       100      100      100      100       40
bet&    nprvsn       72       393,750              I                             I         0      394         0        0        0       394
blidr mint           9 22     112,500                     1      1      1        3         0         0      113      113      113       338
Training solI          WH0             staff-yr.      924160              2      2      2      2        8          0      184      184      184       184       737
Staff                  nr./mZ  tutr    staff-yr.       74880              2      2      2      2        8          0      150       ISt     ISO       150      59
(2 schools)            mat tutor       staff-yr.      53,460              2      2      2      2        8          0      107      107      107      107        428
do. tutor       staff-yr.      74,880              4      4      4      4       16         0       30w      3W       300      300      1,1t8mN
LINV            staff-yr.      ",325              8      8       a      8       32         0      355       355      355      355     1,41
Ernlish tt      staff-yrs      74,83               1      1      1      1        4         0        75       75       75       75        300
Jnr cleric      staff-yr.      25,965             2      2       2      2        8         0        52       52       52       52       208
fm Librn        staff-yr.      28.530             2      2       2      2        8         0        57       57       57       57       228
drIver          staff-yr.      25.515              6      6      6      6       24         0       153      153      153      153       612
chaelk/nib q    staff-yr.      22,290             4       4      4      4       16         0        89       89       89       89       357
Hostel Staff           hoimekepr       staff-yr.      35,280              4      4      4      4        16         0      141       141     141       141       564
(2 schools)            other           ateff-yra      22,290             32    32      32     32      128          0      713      713      713       713     2,853
Accofor Stud nt        cortretn            units     225,W00              1      2                      3          0      225      450        0         0       675
Mshdt cot; Amd
Khn, KI.CtbsIt         bid srvsn            a 7        15,750             1      2                      3          0       16        32        0        0        47
btd mint             a 2X       4,500                     1      3      3        7         0         0        5       14       14         32
Extra atiFpend                           tUcS          5,400                           50     50      100          0        0         0     270       270       540
(d) Inrcntiva          sd stipd          ltumsi        3,600      15    45      80     80     80      300         54      162      2        2S        2S      1,080
In trainirn            trahsort          lum            5W       15    45      80     80     80      300          a       23       40       40       40        1S0
Step Lip          Lumaiu          864             1S    60    140    220       435         0        13       52      121      190        376
Durin bond             bm                luiso         15,885                                 15                   0        0         0        0      238       238
travt             luWeM         1,000             Is    60    140    220       43S         0        15       60      140      220        435
Staying in provinrce    borm             Lumup.        15,885            10    20      30     40      100          0      159       318     477       635     1,S89
tratl             Lu,pa         2,000             10    20      30     40      100         0        20       40       60       80        20           iS
sto Lip           Luppum          864             10    20      30     40      100          0        9       17       26       35         86
piZm/b _es        lu_U           5W               I      1      1      1        4          0        1        1        1         1         2              |
Info pcktr        tuIsu           500            30     60     90    120       3tO         0        15       30       45       60        150
OM Inrers for LIIV            Luupm  staff-yrs         3,510            300   400    525    675    1,900           0    1,053    1,404    1,843    2,369      6,669          e'
wd FllT/idwifte



PAKISTAN BALOCHISTAN
SECOS FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED @JAAITITIES
U-Oct-92      -------      ------
15:56      Type         Unit        Unit    ----Distrlbution of Ountitlee ----  Tot&L -DistrlbJtion of Total Base Costs -                Total
-----------------------      of           Of         Cost     ------ -----  ------ ------ ------ Oty of   (Acunts in Rs D000)                              Bae
uabJact             Ojective              Inrput       Irpnut               93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/96   Irput   93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    Costs
22           (a) PHiS-Outte         labor suite          units     189.000             1                              1        0       189        0        0        0        189
Strength-                           equlpment            uwits     101.040             1                              1        0       101        0        0        0        101
wning                               furniture           uwits       *,500              1                              1        0        5         0        0        0         5
ExistirU                            mini-van             wilts     450,0D0             1                              1        0      450         0        0        0       450
Inrti-                              v h   ares           so10      45,000              1                              1        0       45         0        0        0        45
tutiorn                             Jeop                units    350,000               1                              1        0      350         0        0        0       350
vah "roe             a101      35.000              1                             1        0        35        0        0        0         35
POL               lw s4u      120,000              1      1      1      1        4         0      120      120      120       120       480
bd sprv_n            a 74      13,230              1                             1         0       13        0        0        0         13
bLdg * int           D 2X       3,780                     1      1      1        3         0        0        4        4        4         11
Incrmtstal staff       nrs tutor       staff-yr.      74,880              1      2      2      2        7         0       75      150       150      150       524
houkspr         stuff-yr.      53,460              1      1      1      1        4         0       53       53       53        53       214
LHV             staff-yrs      47,565              1      2      3      3        9         0       48       95      143       143       428
Eng tcdr        staff-yr.      74,880              1      1      1      1        4         0       75       75       75       75        300
F dips          staff-yrr      27,180              1      2      3      3        9        0        27       54       82       82        245
drivers         staff-yrs      27,180              2      2      2      2        8         0       54       54       54        54       217
other staff     staff-yr.      22,290             10     10     10     10       40         0      223      223      223       223       892
(b) Swad.mn            coaster             units  1,20,000               1                              1        0    1,200        0         0        0     1,200
Sdhool of Nursing,     veh spare            D10X     120,000              1                              1        0      120         0        0        0       120
mini-bus            units    450,000               1                             1         0      450        0        0         0       450
vah apree            81so      45,000              1                             1         0       45        0        0         0        45
POL               Lumpus      165,000              1      1      1      1        4         0      165      165      165       165       660                  N
Incr antl staff        rwae tutors    staff-yrs       74,800              1      2      3      3        9         0       75      150       225      225       674
nrse anstr      staff-yr.      74,880              1      2      4      4       11         0       75      150      300      300        824
nrse/w tutors  staff-yr.       74,880              1      2      2      2        7         0       75      150      150       150       524
housekseper    staff-yr.       53,460              1      1      1      1        4         0       53       53       53        53       214
nr clark        staff-yr.      30,150             2       2      2      2        8         0       60       60       60        60       241
drivers         staff-yra      27,180              2      2      2      2        8         0       54       54        54       54       217
steno           staff-yr.      47,565              1      1      1      1        4         0       48       48       48        48       190
other staff     staff-yr.      25,515             26     26     26     26      104         0      663      663      663       663     2,654
(e) Controller-        copier              units     200,000              1                              1        0      200         0        0        0       200
iLr.lng                vehicle              Jeep     250,000              1                              1        0      250         0        0        0       250
veh sres             310X      25,000              1                             1         0       25        0         0        0        25
POL               luaM         37,500              1      1      1      1        4         0       38       38       38        36       150
copier oper      ltuL u        20,000              1      1      1      1        4         0       20       20       20        20        80
(d) ST schoots--       coaster             units     850,000              2                             2         0    1,700         0        0        0     1,700
Qetta wd Khusar        veh sre              310z      85,000              2                              2        0       170        0        0        0        170
repir estr          units     255,000             2                              2         0      510        0        0         0       510
POL               Lpuet.    165,750               2       2      2      2        8         0      332      332      332       332     1,326
Incr staff for, NIT    n houskpr       staff-yr.      31,770              2      2      2      2        8         0       64       64        64       64       254
drivor          staff-yrc      25,515              2      2      2      2        8         0       51       51        51       51       204
section                ni/cihowk       staff-ymr      22,290              4      4      4      4        16        0       89        89       89       89       357
copier oper       tumpm         3,177             2       2      2      2        8         0        6        6        6         6        25
College Dept           furniture         lumpeu.       4,000              1                              1        0        4         0        0        0         4        i   p
of Cmmunaity           vehicle             units    450,000               1                              1        0      450         0        0        0       450       CD C
Madicine              v_h l res             3101      45,000              1                              1        0       45         0        045 O             *S       m        MaX
POL               lumpt        67,500              1      1      1      1        4         0       68       68        68       68       270          |_
0
Incremental taff       health  due     staff-yr.      74,880              1      1      1      1        4         0       75        75       75       75       300
artIst          staff-yrs      35,280              1      1      1      1        4         0       35       35       35        35       141        '
projectionist   staff-yr.      35,280              1      1      1      1        4         0       35        35       35       35       141



PMKISIM ALOCNISTAO
*ECON FILY WALTN P.0UCT
1ITIMITD eSMTITIES
14-Oct-92     -------       -------      -----      ----   ----  --         --                                                          -
15:56      Type          unit        Unit    -- -Diatribution of  ueuntitlis  ----  Total *Dlstribution of Total tsa, Coats -                 Total
-----------------------       of            of         Coat      ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Sty of   (nAtas in As '000)                                  Be
& aJet               ObJctive              Inrut         Irout        ll       93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/91   Inut   93/94    94/f           95/6    96/97    97/96    Coats
..........  ---- ---- --- ---- ---       -------  .   ....... ....... . ........ ....... .......  ------ . ...... . ------ ........----....--.... ....----.. .. .--....--....-...----- .....---....---... ....-----.....  ......  ------
*twno           staff-Wa        36,070              1       1       1      1        *        0        36       3t        36       38        152
Jnr itork       staff-yrc       25.965              1       1      I       I        4        0        26       26        26       26        104
drivws          staff-yra       26,348              1       1       1      1        4        0        26       26        26       26        105
pen             stoff-yrw       22290               1       1       1      1        4        0        22       22        22       22         69
Attach_  SW    cIlmrsa                    units      225,000              1                               1        0      225         0        0         0        225
bdg sprvn             6 7       15,750              1                               1        0        16         0        0        0         16
btdg _mint                       4,500                      1       1      1        3        0         0         5        5        S          14
2.3          (a) Cadre
FN    50 pae            Initial           sesala        200,000              4                               4        0      soo         0        0         0        s00
ohs                     fottou  in    _o                  2,000                     4       *      4        12        0        0         6        a         a         24
100 par                 inftiaL          trn  de"           117            960  1440  1440  1440    5,2S0             0       112      166       I"6      166        616
_rmoetesio              refreshr         trne de"           250                    16      32     56       104        0         0        4         a       14         26
1   ve_ctnies           initiat          trni  ds         1,000                     1                        1        0         0        1        0         0          1
AINUS 21 par.           initial          trn des            167            192    144    144    144        624                 32       24       24        24        104
n. at. arv              refresher        trnig de          257                             14     20        42        0         0        2         4        5         11
det 300 pw              initial          trn  do             1             144    216    216    216        792        0         2        3        3         3         12
No.                     refreahir        trne de"            1                     48      96    16t       312        0         0        1         1        3          5
LNV/FPIT 300 pan        Initial          trnr dep            *2            160    240    240    240         0O        o       13        20       20        20         n2
NC/nwtriticn            refrahar         trn de"            132                    40      00    140       260        0         0        5        11       1S         34
mrsa  30 par            initiat          trng de"           102             24     36      36     36       132        0         2        4        4         4         13
rP                      rafrealr         trny dey           152                     6      16     26        52        0         0        1        2         4          a
Wm  50 par              Initial          trne don           117            300                             300        0        35        0         0        0         35
TS suvrvlit             refresher        trng dey           167                    50      50     50       150        0        0         a        a         a         25
1hs 480 pa              Initial          trre  dep          117            400    600    600    600    2,200          0       47        T0       70        70        257
CDC                     rafraa1m         trng dan           167                     0     160    260       520        0        0        13       27        47         87
me 2ip                  initftl          tnde"               62             48     72      72     72       264        0         3        4         4        4         16
taad r tng              rafrassr         trng de"           112                     4       a     14        26        0        0         0         1        2          3
drug inr trs 6 par    Initial            tng dry          1,000                            10               10        0         0        0        10        0         10
tb met 40 pwr           initiaL          trng do"            67            48      72     72      72      264         0        4         6        6         6         23
tab ted                 refrahr          trng dey           137                     6      16     26       52         0        0         1        2         4          7
IIT 200 par             Initial          trns dw             67            384    576    576    576    2.112          0       33        50        50       50       13
bzlc Lab tad            rfrOm"r          trrg dr            137                    32      64    112       206        0        0         4        9        15         26
CDC s    4rvsa140 pem  initiat           trng dey           102            144    216    216    216        '92        0        15       22       22        22         61
supervision             rafraWr          trng dwe           IS2                    24      U      S4       156        0        0         4        7        13         24
vaccintorc 1110 pa   initiat             trng dwe            1S         2 160  2,160    240  3,240   10,800           0       32        32       49        49        162
m_tricSCDC              refr_hr          trig de"            15                   lO    360    630    1,170           0         0        3         5        9         16
ADIS24 pas              initial          trng de          1,000            192    144    144    144        624        0       192      14        144      144        624
cpidmioloEy             rafrear          trng dmw           117                     a      14     20        42        0        0         1        2         2          5
oLb offfic              initiat           sasimne        35,000                     3                        3        0        0       105        0         0        105      w  a 
kOsADID  40  p          i nitlot         trng ds             so             16     12      12     12        52        0         1        1         1        1          3         m X
food InspctorlSO    initial              trne de"           20              24     36     36      36       132        0        5         7        7         7         26      
food  pifr              refr eshr        trr  dev           250                     2       5      a        1S        0        0         1         1        2          4
nr micro 25 p           initial          trng do"            75              4      6       6      6        22        0         0        0        0         0          2



PAKISTAN NALOCKISTMN
NECOND FAlILY NEALTI PUOJECT
ESTINTO UMNTITIES
14-Oct-92      -------      -------      -----     ........... .......... ......  -----   .....             ......   ------ _
15:56      Tyip          Unit        Unit    ----Distribution of Quantities ----  Total  -Distribution of Total Bae  Costs                     Total
----------  -----------------------        of           of          Cost      ------ ------ ------ ------ ------  ty of    (AAt  In     000)                                  Be
Jsect               ObJetiv                Input        Input         s       93/94  94/95  95/6  96/97  97/96   1rpi         93/94    94/5    9/96    96/97    97(96    costs
..... .....    ----------------        .......   .  . ----- . .. --        ......  ....... ........ ...  .....  ......    ---  ---  ......   .......  -----     .. .... . . 
raplr tech              refreser         trngds y           125                     1       2      4         7        0        0         0        0         1          1
_larl afero Sso  i          inltia       trno de"            92              1       1      2      2         6        0         0        0         0        0          1
Training mtsrfits ete.                     ltui.     1.000,000             1.5      1       1      1         5        0    1.SW0    1,000    1,0W       1,0W      4,500
(b) Tutor Trafning
Tutor traningl          TA/DA             pr pe         10,00               10     10      10     10        40        0      100       100      100       100        400
Staff costs             trainwr          staff-yrs      74,830               1      1       1      1         4        0       7s        75       75        75        300
Ctlsaroam               furnitre             unilts     50,000               2                               3       so      100         0        0         0        tso
Offie                   squig                units       1s,000      1       2                               3       15       30         0         0        0         45
Technical Ast.         cersulttt            sw-rn      100,000               6     12                       la        0      600    1,200         0         0      1.800
tra celt            _r-i       180,00        6     12      12     12       6       48   1,080    2,160    2,160    2,160    1,080         8,640
Learning reere S   qt                      lsup         30,000      25s   200W   100K   100K   100          5        8       60        30       30        30        ISO
2.4           P ovineiaL              etruct.           ltum       4,032,000               1                               1        0    4,032         0        0         0     4,032
_ItE                    hotel.             tua,u    3,6,5000                 1                               1        0    3,645         0        0         0     3,645
evlop_t                 qul   nt           luswaa    4,000,000               1                               1        0    4*000         0        0         0     4,000
Cntre,                  furnitiw           lzqm      1,000,000               1                               1        0    1,000         0        0         0     10W0
In eutta                vemhcle            Luqm        350,000       1       2                               3     350       700         0        0         0     1050
v_i Spam             810       35,000       1      2                               3       35        7o        0         0        0        105
POL                llein        52,500       1      3       3      3       3        13      53       lss      15s       15s       1s5       663
bt&i ampn                 n7   537,390               1                               1       0       537        0         0        0        537
btdhu mint.          S 2       153,540                      1      1       1        3        0         0      154       1S4      154        461
Incr. staff              PS-19           staff-yrt     121,410       1       1      1       1      1         5      121      121       121      121       121       607
lPS-15          staff-yra       92,160       1      3       3      3       3        13      92       276      276       276      276      1,196
rS-17           staff-yrs       74,810       5     11      11     11      11       49      374       824      624       824      824      3,669
39S-16          staff-yrs       53,40        2      2       2      2       2        10     107       107      107       107      107        535
ws-is           staff-yrs       47,s65       1       1      1      1       1        5       48        48       48        48                 238
rn-12           staff-yr,       38,070       1      3       3      3       3        13      38       114      114       114      114        495
OS-6            staff-yr.       33,000       3      6       6      6       6       27       99       198      195       196      196        891
SPS-4           staff-yrs       25,515       2      2       2      2       2       10       51        51       51        51       51        255
rn-i            staff-yrs       22,290      10     10      10     10      10       so      223       223      223       223      223      1,115
Oivisional              comtru t        units        1,377,000               2      2       2                6        0    2,734    2,754    2.754          0     8,262
NI_th                   hostel               intt   2,497,500                2      2       2                6        0    4.995    4,995    4,995          0    14,985
0evsoint                eulint             lusm       825,000               2      2       2                6        0    1,650    1,650    1,650          0     4,950
Centres,                furniture          Lupas       675,000               2      2       2                6        0    1,350    1,350    1,350          0     4,050
DIvIsion                2 wEh/div          lumm        250,00W               4      4       4      0        12        0    1,000    1,000    1,0w           0     3,000
_ah Spam              10K       25,000              4       4      4       0       12        0       100      100       100        0        30
POL                tuui         37,s50              4       8     12      12       36        0       1so      300       450      450      1,350
bidne u.vn           a 7X      271,215              2       2      2                6        0      542       542       542        0      1,627
btdng l fnt.         8 2        77,490                      2      4       6       12        0         0      lss      310       465        930
PS-16           staff-yrs       74,800              4       8     12      12       36        0      299       596      898       896      2,693
rS-4            staff-yr,       25,515              4       a     12      12       36        0       io2      204      306       306        919
nS-1            staff-yrs       22,290              10     20     30      30       90        0       223      46        669      669      2,006            M
Rant (PC)    ui.as             300,000       1       1                              2      300      300         0         0        0        60
Rent (OUC)    l.uW              60,000              2                               2        o       120        0         0        0        120
pC MISe.        Lsm          1 ,000,0W     0.5       1      1      1       1      4.5      SO    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000         4,0 
DDC RISC. e     usim           100,000               2      4      6       6        l       0       ZW       400       600      600      1,800



- 126 -
Annex 7
Table 2
Page 6 of 6
*Y Ni.-
*    * '  ..
>,,  
. .            
'3      '           ':1
5s  ,              :1:
00            !i 
. E c g |      X E ,
3;g    U       g
n '*
_um, 5.V. .
4 S: o.:.
Q    
3C tS
.    V  
:   a  
.    V 
.a 



PAKISTI SALOCHISTAN
ROO FMILY KEALTH PROJECT
ESMTED ATUJMTITIES
DATE                     14-oct-92    -------       ----        .....    ------   ------   ......   ------   ......       -----    ------   ------   --- 
TIME                         14:43      Ty"         tUnit       Unit    ----Distributimn of Quentities ----               TotoL   -Dlstrlbation of TotaL Be" Coats -                 TotaL
---------- ----------------------       of          of         Cost     ------   ..... . . . . ..- ------   ------    Oty of       (Anauts in Is '0C)                              Ss
")Ject            obJactive            Irput         Irput       Rs       93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96       Irput    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96         Coats
- - - - -  -- - - - - - - - - - -    ... ....     .......     .......   -----.    -- --    ......    -  - -   - - --     .....     -- - -   - -- -   - - -     ......   - - -
.....-        -- - - -- - - -- - -   .........     -------    -- - -    ------    -- - -   ......    -- --    -- --      -- -      -- --    -- --    ------ .    .......  ------....
lit     k TAGM    OEVELtPllT
3.1         (a)  a"ipn             hdvr/aftwr          units    150,000                  3        4         5        6         18         o      450      600       730      900      2,700
Nbolth       nd mint twc           training          itep._    75,000                    3        4         5        6         18         0      225      300       375      450       1,350
Infore-     of Sytr
_tion       wnd C  -ity            r port pubt       Latu         1,000                ISO      350       600      900      2,000         0      150      350       600      900       2,000
Systow                             data analysis    wM-r0    312,500                     1        1                             2        0       313      313         0        0        625
3.2         (a) Secretariat         qulipnt            units    500,000         1                                                1     500         0        0         0        0        500
Erhancad    Pannring               vhices              wnilts   350,0D0        2                                                2      700         0        0         0        0        700
PLmir~g    coit                    v h l  res          8101      35,000        2                                                2       70         0        0         0        0         70
POL              iuiet       52,500         2        2         2        2         2         10      105      105       105      IDS       105        525
incrKentaL staff        PS-19         staff-yr     121,410         1        1         1        1         1          5      121      121       121      121       121        607
US-16          staff-yrs     53,460         2        2         2        2         2         10      107      107       107      107      107         535
PS-is          staff-yr.     47,565         1        1         1        I         1          5                          48       48       48         238
PS-12          staff-yr.     38,070         1        1         1        1         1          5       38       38        36       38       38         190
PS-11          staff-yrs     35,280         1        1         1        1         1          5       35       35        35       35       35         176
UPS-4          staff-yr.     25,515         1        1         1        I         1          S       26       26        26       26       26         128
(b) ProJect            fumfi tur-        lunt      120,000         1                                                1      120        0         0        0        0         120
Coordiration           ewuipnt         lt_mm    564,000            1                                                1      564        0         0        0         0        564
coaster            units    850,000         1        1                                       2      850      8SO         0        0        0       1,700
vaheLes            unito    450,000        1        1                                       2      450      450         0        0        0         900
coaster "ar"        a10m     85,000         1        1                                       2       as       as        0         0        0         170
v h spere            10X     45,000         1        1                                       2       45       45        0         0        0         90
POL              Lutau      195,000         1        2         2        2         2          9      195      390      390       390      390       1,755                         _
Rant CPIU)      ltumpa    300,000           1        1         1        1         1          5     300       300      300       300      300        1500
Advrtisino       tuipa      100,000         1        1         1        1         1          5      100      100      100       100      100        500
Equpent/stat   tuips        360,000         1        1         1        1         1          5     360       360      360       360      360       1800
Incr. Staff      tuspoa     907,200         1        1         1        1         1          5     907       907      907      907       907      4,536
p_,    a Mitc    turpr      310,000         1        1         1        1         1          5     310       310      310       310      310       1550
CC) Project            trvi &I  ise     IiMse.     500,000         1        1         1        1         1          5     500       S00      500       500      500      2,500
,-s    nt              Prel-tmu     mks   lurpae    250,000        1                                                1      250        0        0         0        0         250
A Evatutlon           IWVt workahp    ltuipsu    250,000                     1        1         1        1          4        0      250      250       250      250       1,000
 l ct.          ttue     1,000,000                 25X      100X      50X       50X         2       0       250    1,000      500       500      2,250
aid-tr  rev      luqsr   1,000,000                             1                             1       0         0    1,000        0               1,000
pr ation          uima  2,500,000                                      50       50X         1       0         0        0    1,250    1,250       2,500
(d) Tchn1icaL          For*ign Trt am    wn-o    125,000                                      12        12         24       0         0        0    1,5W      1,5W       3,000
Asistenca              Pltwming            r-MO    312,500                  12       12                            24       0    3,750    3,750          0        0      7,500
Managoemnt        omu-o    312,500         10       10        10       10        10         50   3,125    3,125    3,125    3,125    3,125       15,625
Locat TA/coIUu    wn-rn    125,000          4       16        19        7        4          S0     500    2,000    2,375       an        so0      6,250
Edcu m_tariss   tu_ps    7,500,000          1                                                1   7,500         0        0        0         0      7,500
Mid-tam rovio  tiiuam  1,000,000                               1                             I       0         0    1,000        0         0      1,W00
M. M. 1. S             N. H. I. S     trng ds          334              3,840    5,760    1,920    1,220       12,740       0    1,283    1,924       641       407      4,255
PIOC H.wWers           Initial        trng days         434                         640    1,600    1,920       4,160       0         0      278      694       833      1,805
960 pars               refresher
Nospitat Muugrs        initiat        trrV days         334             1,344    2,016       672       448      4,480       0      449       673      224       150      1,496             > 3
(320 pars)             refresher      tng dys          434                          224      560       672      1,456       0        0        97      243      292         632          z  3
Training mteraist                    L[um        1,500,000                 50s       251      25X                   1       0      750       375      375         0      1,500               X
Shb-totaL Mana  17,911   17,771   20,757   14,750   14,404       8S,593



PAKISTAN PUNJAB
11S1C FAMILY NALTN PEOJECT
ESTIMATED QWANTITIES
14-001-92 ------....-      ----------.- .......    -----   . .....  ......  ......  ......   .....    ......  ........ --.-    -------
15:53      TWO          Unit       Wnit   ---- Distrfbutfln of Quantities ----           Totat   -Distribution of Totat la" Costs -            Totao
*    *-------. ----...    of           Of        cost    ------   ------   . .          .. ... . .     ty of    (Amounts in Re '000)                          Be"
"Ject             objective              Irpt         Input      Is       93/94   9Z/95    95/96    96/97   97/96   input        93/9    94f/    95/96    96/97   97/96   Coats
-----~~, ---   ..... --------. ----  -------  ........ ..  ..........  ... .......  ------  ------.   ......  .......  ......  ..... . ... ......   .......  ......  ------.  ......
POVIiCIAL WALTN 5VICES
1.1        (a) Viltate-ad          TDA  trrll          ta/da        am                                1,200    1400    2,600                              1,056    1,232    2,2M
Maternalt    *-TGA training        TEA refreser        ta/di        300                               1.000    1,000    2.000         0        0        0      300     300       600
aid           (ackiftfinL to
C,iLd          ILiCF)             TEA kits raw        umits       1,0t0                              1,200    1,400    2,600         0        0        0    1,296    1,512    2,800
NeLth                              replacemnt          unit       1,0ilO                              3,125   3,125    6.250          0        0        0   3,375    3,375     6,750
Uorkshoa            LNV traiolnr         hsAp       6,750                                  8        9       17         0        0        0       54       63       117
rea_capara         ulp         2,400                                  8        9       17         0        0        0       19       22        42
scretarial         uchp        1,000                                  8        9       17         0        0        0        8        9        17
--Liltv  at  Ma       trrg kits           units       3,000              297      297      762      816    2,152         0      890      890    2,Z26   2,446e    6,455
--CiU pitet *tuV      CM training         ta/o          MO                sO       s0                        160         0       70       70        0        0       141
in 40 virttape
Workhops             NT trinw In_ehp                  650                 8        2                        10         0        6        1        0        0         5
resource pons       ahp        2,400                 *        1                         5         0       10        2        0        0        12
secretarial        alp         1,000                 *                                  4         0        6        0        0        0         4
C0W kits           units       1,250                sO                                 80         0      100        0        0        0       100
41 vhficLe         units    600,000                  1                                  1         0      600        0        0        0       600
PiOL             tlan         90,000                 1        1       1                 3         0       90       90       90        0       270
ipervOifen         to/do       2,400                40      40                         sO         0       96       96        0        0       192
--INpltotion        OCW trng             ta/1          800                                         500      500         0        0        0        0      *00      600                     C
art Ci  proges     trainr  trnd        ta/d          650                                          50       50         0        0        0        0       23        23                     1
resource Par       ta/di       2,600                                          so       50         0        0        0        0      120       120
cnrtar1i           tad/        1,000                                          50       SO         0        0        0        0       50        50
ow kits            units       1,200                                         500      SOO          0       0        0        0      600       600
--Local initlativee   CiO pitot        tula.tm   1,000,000                                  1        1        2         0        0        0    1,000    1,000    2,000
ilptatiu,        Lutmm       100,000                 1        1                         f         0      100      100        0        0       200
(b) ON aevicr           fturnitur          unite       2,500                32      48       81       89      250         0       81      120      203      223       626
at a"i                 IUD tabte           units       2.030               148     218      367      417    1,150         0      301      443      765      847    2,335
baby resmcftatio   unilts      2SOO               297     U5       742      816    2,300         0      742    1,113    1,855    2,040    5.769
weinghai  aqt      units       1,200               297      665     742      816    2,300         0      356      536      890      979     2,760
aqipst             units      15.000                77      115     193      215      600         0   1,161    1,725    2,895   3,225    9,006
edfcina         ltu_um        15,000               400      400     400      600    1,600          0   6,000    6,000    6,000    6,000    26,000
LNV kits           unita       1,140               297     465      742      816    2,300         0      335      507      846      930    2,622
Sateltite              furniture            nfits      2.500                16       16      32       36      101         0       40       40       S1       91       252
Ctinies
u tetitte kits    tulm         2,500                16       16      32       36      101         0       40       40       t1       91       252
_lihihng qt        units         725                16       16      32       36      10t         0       12       12       23       26        73
(c) All PiC facitities  raptnishablto    tua           2,500              400             1,700             2,100         0    1,000        0   4,250         0    5,250
IUD eqt          tuapem          785              400                      2,500    2,900         0      314        0        0    1,963     2,277
LiV TA/DA        tuwam         5,400               400    1,000    1,700   2,500    5,600         0   2,160    5,400    9,180   13,500    30,240       p 1- :-
(d) Emergency          eibutwi A           units    850,000                                           30       30         0        0        0        0  25,500   25,500        m -'A
Service                IV eqt                            650               400    1.000    1,700    2,500    5,600         0     260      650    1,105    1,625     3,640      -    _ N
trport             units       5,000               400     8OO    1,200    1,600    6,000         0   2,000    6,000    6,000    8,000    20,000       0
POL              tuhp.    127,500                                             30       30          0       0        0        0   3,82       3,i2 
RidC                    X-ray & tob        units    t50.000                                           30       30          0       0        0        0   25,500    25,500



P58181*1 PU.AM
*101  FMILY NLTN POJECT
IESTIIATIO UMWITItgC
14-cet-92      -----*       -------    -----      -----   ...   .....    ------   ....           ..       -
ISM5        Tyw          Unilt       tilt    ----Dlstrlhbtlon of untitl_tes ----            Total   -Distrlbutlon of Total  aae costs -              Total
.......                .       Of           of    Cost  ------ .-.    ------ ------ ------ -ty of  (Amossts In e '000)                                                  go
abjlect            Objectiv                Ir4ut        Irect       Rs       93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    lrut       93/94    94/9      95/96    96/9     97/98    Costs
,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,-,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,,,,,-,,,,-,,,  .... .   - - -- . . ..  ......  -- - -  --- -  --- -  -- - -  -----  .. ..  -- --  -- --    .. ..    ' ..''..'''..''
sikaU bId br        units      50,000                 so       50       50       so      200          0    2,500    2,500    2,500    2,500    10,000
Thletl NM"              uttrond, isb        une ilts    30,000                15       15        15       I5       60          0   12,4S5   12,450   12.450   12,450    49,100
stkl. bid bnk       units      50,000                 1s       15       15       15       60          0      750       750      750      75o    3I000
DOftrfit N_p            uttre 1d            smuts      300,000                 5        5        10       10       30          0    1,500    1,0so    3,000    3,000      9,000
ltrnity Cujrat          cor.tr               uifts   3,478,000                         251      0sx       25s       1          0        0      Wm70    1,73       a70     3,478
cntr spn            Uilts     173,900 s51 2x                             s       2s5       1          0        0        43       87       43       174
quwimt               mits  2,000,000                           2sx      2s5      5s0       1          0        0       500     s50     1,000     2,000
(e) Studies
Eveititon               foreum              _w-u       312,500                 3        3                           6          a      9s3      936        0         0     1,875
Lacos              a.t.m      125,000                 6        6         9        3       24          0      7s0  75 0    1,125          375     3,000
lntvuifrs        staff-Yu      25,530                24       24        24       16       U           0      665      665       685      454     2,511
cler/tvpist      staff-ye      25,530                  3        3        3        2       11          0       66        66      86        57       314
coordinator                    74n8                    1        1        1        1        4          0        75       75       75                300
CMatorprogrrs                  44,325                  1        1        1        1        4          o                                   44       17 7
PC/prt/ace          units     190,000                 4                                    4          a       760        0        0        0       760
0          0        0        0 00                         0
TADA                            4,000                25        26       26       17       9         100       10e 4    104       66        0       376
(f) Poputation          contraceptives      R  oe        1,000   21,640   23,8s5   26,185  2z,to3   31,683  132,115       21,640   23,605   26,185   25,803   31,683   132,115
C) Addt' post (Nwt        PS-,9           staff-yes    121,410        1        1        1         1        1        5        121      121      121       121      121       607
'of F. Ptwmwil)
1.2         (a) Pr entoati          cotd boes            units      2o,0o0                 1                                    1          0       20         0        0        a        20
Urbo           Vaccine distrib.     vwcine wvh           Uilts     80,000                  1                                    1          0      600         0        0        0       SW0
_eLth                                                                                                                                                                                                           '0
Vector cotroL        fogers              wilts       20z000                10                                   10          0      20         0         0        0       200
Jeep                uits      4SO,o0O                  1                          1        2          0       450        0        0      450       900
(project portion)    porythrold        lume    2,100,000                  651      651      65s       3s5       2          o    1,365    1,365    1,365       735     4,830
Larvwiet s        tuim      1,000,000                651      651       651      351       2          0       650      650      650      350     2,300
(LUC portion)        parythroid        ltupet   2,100,000                  351      351      351       651       2          0      735       735      735    1,365     3,570
tervacidats       tul.i    1,000,000                 351       351      351      651       2           0      350      350      350      650      1,700
(b) Improve Acces       baic  qt           lmpt.        10,000       20       35       6a                          63          0      350        so        0        0       630
Labor rm              coetructlon         uwits      136,000                33                                   33          o    4,554         0        a        0     4,554
Labor ram             carat. pwn         uwito         6,900                33                                   33          0      228         0        0        0       225
LV acem             wilt      361,000                 23                                  23           0    6,763        0        0         0     6,763
cont. apon         uwilts      19,050                 23                                  23           0      438        0        a         0       436
updr inftt          uwits    400,000                  50x      so0                         1           0      200      200        0         0       400
dls hasp
comvty part    stIpend         10,000                  1        1        1        1        4           0       10       t0        10       10        40
(e)  mprove 1 m lty      wield              Uwits      350,000                 1                                    1          0       350        0        0        0       350
Incrent-  ea        baseline          tulma         12,000               146      16       146       146    S5u            0    1,752    1,752    1.7S2    1 752      7,006
mtthed fid        limPet       48,000                146      146      16       110      s5u           0    7,006    7,00o    7,006    5,256    26,280
Olaisotic           lab aqt            tulmpet     225,700                 4        4                           6           0      903      903        0        0      1,806
DI*""erl            x-ray oqt           wilts      165,000                 4        4                           a          0         e60    660        0        0      1,320
ultreourd eqt      ulits     600e500                 4         4                          a           0    2,402    2,402         0        0     4,604          i
reaatfam          lsut        100,000                 4         4                          a '  '                      400 0                0       se00 
ECG m_ciirn        uwlt,       25,000                 4         4                          *           0      112       112        0        0       224
Epfdlc               pfid  TA         Feltlouhi    5000oo0                 2                                    2           0    1,000        0        0        0      1,0oo 00
airvait11nce        FT               staff-yr.      35,260                 1        1         1        1        4           0       35       35       35       35         41
& Op  tin           coordinstor       staff-yr      47,565                 1        1         1        1        4           0       48       4        4         48       190
Unit                computr progrmtaff-yrs          44,325                 1        1         1        1        4           0                                            14 44  4  U  177  a'



PAKISTAN PtlJA8
SEND FAMtLY NEALTN PROJECT
ESTItATED tYITITIES
14-act-92       --- -        .. . .     .. .       .. . .   - - -     -- - -   . . .    .. . .     - - -    . . .     -- - -   - - -    --   --    . . .
15-53       Type      - ilt          Unit    ---- Distrlbutlon of auititlf -                  Total   -DOitributlon of TotaL Bas  Costs -               Total
-------- - ----------------------          o             Of        Coot      .. .   ------   ------   ------               'Y 'Of     (Amunts In No  000)                             Be
ubJect             Ob;jctive                I ngut       Irput       to        93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    lnpst       93/94    94/95    95/96    967    97/96    Coats
........-   ------------------.------   ........      -- - -    -- - -      -- --    -- --     -- --    ------... ......    -----    ...._.....  -----  ......   . ......  ------
vaccinators      staff-yrs      22,950                  4        *        *         4       16          0       92       92        92       92       367
cterVtypist      staff-yrs      28,530                  1        2        2         2        7          0       29       57        ST       57       200
intermiars       staff-yrs      26,530                 10       10       10        10       40          0      265      2         Z55      285     1,141
PC/prt/ ac          units      190,000                  1        2                           3          0      190      380         0        0       570
Joew units                    250,000                   1                                    1         0       250        0        0         0       250
typs_rt*r           units       10.000                  1                                    1          0       10        0         0        0        10
postag            tu_ipm         5,000                  1        1         1        1        4          0        5        5         5        5        20
telepone         tltpu          10,000                  I        1        1         1        4          0       10       10        10       10        40
Woraiop            tulpsun      50,000                                              1        1          0        0        0         0       50        50
TA                    tocons              min        125,00O                  6                                    6          o      750        0         0        0       750
foreone            Mn-on       312,500        3        6         4        2         2       17         a8  1i8rs    1,250        625       625     5,313
tetT*  Eiction (CCA)
fsttomhip           min        125,000        3        3         3        3         0       12       375       375      375      375         0     1,500
foraccr            _n-o        312,500        6         6        0        0         0       12      1,875    1,875        0         0        0     3,750
tornm mn                       125.000        6        6         0        0         0       12       750       750        O        0         0     1,500
Ntth. Educ ntrts tuu           ?o.o000        1         0        1        a         0        2        750        0      750         0        0     1, 50
td) Uibu  Ntith Studlos
forcra              rn-o       312,500        1                                              1       313         0        0        0         0       313
tocr.              IM-1o       125,000        6        6                                    12       75o      iso         0        0         0     1,500
Intorvlajes      staff-ye      28,530        18        6                                    24       514       171        0        0         0       685
ctrak/typist     staff-yVW      26,530        1         1                                    2         29       29        0         0        0        57
coordin tor                     74.80O        1         1                                    2         75       75        0         0        0       150
PC/prt/c            units      190,000        2                                              2        380        0        0         0        0       30
0         0        0         0        0        0          0 
TA/DA                            4,000        8        8                                    16         32        0        0         0        0        32
Ser         Oa NEIW
Urban                                construction         units     540,000                            1        1         1        3         0        0       5s0      540       540     1,620
Ntath tgiup_t/nV_t                                        units      60,000                            I        1        1         3         0        0        60       60       60       10
outlms              units      800a OOO                                   2                  2          0        0        0    1,600         0     1.600
vah repair       3105           80000                                    2                  2          0        0        0       160        0       160
fInltur           tu_sua         6,000                           1        1         1        3         0         0        6        6         6        18
b1dg &Arva           2 7X       3780W                            1         1        1        3          0        0       38        38       38       113
btdlg _Int.          a Z        10,800                                     1        2        3          0        0        0        11       22        32
Jeep                units      350,000        1                                              1       350         0        O        0         0       350
minitab             units        6,WW         1                                              1          6        0        0         0        0         6
syrie            thousand        1,200       50        50       so       50        50      250        60        60       60       60        60       300
*Icrarutrlunts    tu_iau       100,000        1         1        1         1        1        5        1W       100      100       100      100       5W
Drug(0S l /A       u liaus   3,680,000        1         1        1         1        1        5     3,680    3,680    3,610    3,680    3,680    18,400
Santtotion               dump truck           units   1,200,000                           1         1        1        3          0        0    1,200    1,200    1,200      3,600
dup truck        t1lO          120, Mc                           I         1        1        3          0        0      120       120      120       360
trash tractor       units   1,000,000                                     1         1        2         0         0        0    1, W0    1.WW      2,000
vah parts           wnits      100,000                                    1         1        2          0        0        0       100      100       2W
attlara                  mini-feo             units     150,000                            1        1                  2         0        0       150      150        0        300
port. fogger        units       25,000                           1         1                 2         0         0       25        25        0        50    '      >-l
co
Shsnwapur Now NCle
NkeIth                                                                                                                                                                                            0    -
construction        units      540,000                           1         1                 2         0         0      540      540         0     1, 080
eqipent/ead         units       60,000                           1         1                 2          0        0       60       60         0        120



PAISTAN PWMJM
SECOf FAIlT HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED NTITIES
14-Oct-92          --                                                                                    ,,,          ,,               ,,               _.
15:53       Ty9p     U nit          Unit    ----Distrfbution of Quntities ----              TotaL  -ftribustarin of Totat Oae Costs -               Total
---------- ------------------------       of           of        Cost    ------   -----t.--n- ......                                                                              ----------otyof Ant in R)000)  I
SubJect            ObJective               lrput       Irpit       Rs       93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96       riput   93/4    94/95    95/96    96/9?    97,96    costs
adut em             Lnits    SOO,ODD                                     1                 1        0        0         0      Soo        0       800
v_h rpair        0a1           80,000                                    1                 1        0        0         0       80        0        sO
furniture         Lux-_         6,000                           1        1                 2        0        0        6         6        0        12
btedg  uprn          8 7S      37,500                           1        1                 2        0        0        38       3S        0        76
bing mInt.           9 2S      10,S00                           0        2        2        4        0        0         0       22       Z2        43
Jeep                units    350,000         1                                             1      350        0        0         0        0       350
minitab             units       6,000        1                                             1        6         0        0        0        0         6
ecrcntHtrxis    tul i         100,000        I         1        1        1        1        5      100       100      100      100      100       500
Orn(OES/Al        tuxp.  3,6o0,000           1         1        1        1        1        5    3,680    3,6W0    3,680    3,680    3,6t0    18,400
TI & Iltis 5t
fridge  cuf t       uwits       6,000        2                                             2       12        0         0        0        0        12
Siltatiin                d.p truek          units   1,200,000                                     1                 1        0        0        0    1,200         0     1,200
dLp truck        3105         120,000                                    1                 1        0         0        0      120        0        120
trash tractor       units   1,000,000                                    1                 I        0        0         0    1,000        0     1,000
v_h prts            units     100,000                                    1        2        3        0         0        0      100      200       300
NLaaris                 wini-ftgger         units      150,000                                    1                 1        0        0        0       150        0       150
port. ofgar         wnits      25,000                                    1                 1        0         0        0       25        0        25
1.3         Incr_ntct staff at    storeke.r          staff-yrs     31,770                  1        3        5         7       16        0       32       95       159      222       so
Medicat    Divissl level              ntc_            staff-yt a    22,290                 1        3         5        7       16        0       22       67       111      156       357
Stores
Stui_fs                 curric. dgn         units    500,000                   1                                    1        0      500        0        0         0       500
hops qt             units    500,000                  1                                    I        0       500        0        0        0       SOO
_o__nit             wnite     500,000                 1                                    1        0      500         0        0        0       500
1.4         CoLd choin              ctd ro  -20c        units      62,500                  1        1         1        1        4        0       63       63       63        63       250
Control                             ctd romo44c         units       62,500                 1        1         1        1        4        0       63       63       63        63       250
ot                                  rfrg van            units     800,000                  2        2        2         3        9        0    1,600    1,600    1,600    2,400      7,200
Cin.mi-                             lee-t tridge        units       15,000                50       50       100      100      300        0      750      750    1,500    1,500      4,500
Icble                              deep freezer        wnits      15,000                 so       s        50        50      200        0      750      750      750       750     3,000
DiOfse                               entr SO tVA         units      11,000                20       20        20       20       80        0      220      220       220      220       880
fridge 5 cft        wnits       6,000               100      200       200      200      700        0      60      1,200    1,200    1,20      4,200
auto stsbilzr       units       1,000               200      300       350      350    1,200        0      200       300      350      350     1,200
cold box            units       4,100               200      200       200      200      8m         0       820      820      820      820     3,280
vscsm crrier        units         450             1,000      5W        5W       500    2,500        0       450      225      225      225      1,125
therm  fl_sk        units          50             2,000    2,000    2,000    3,000    9,000         0       100      100      100      150       450
VP therotsr         units         250               200       100      100      100      500        0        SO       25       25       25        125
dll thrintr        units          25               200      300       350      350    1,200        0         5        a        9        9        30
thrc-indestr       uwits           13             1,000      50W       S0       SW     2,500        0        13        6        6        6        31
frci repr kit       units      15,000                 2        2         2        2        8        0       30        30       30       30       120
dbl-cab 4WD         units    450,000         6        6       36        56       22      106    2,700    2,700   16,200   16,200    9,900    47,700
L  ncrulser        units     450,000                  1        2        2         2        7        0      450      900       900      900     3,150
mtorcyt_            wits       30,000               100       200      112      100      512        0    3,000    6,000    3,360    3,000    15.360
bicycte             units       1,500             1,000    3,000    3,000              7,000        0    1,500    4,500    4,500         0    10,500
mjor repsir         wnits      50,000                10        10       10       10       40         0      500      500      So0      50      2,000
POt 4W0D         tItpu         60,000                 6        12       18       24       60         0      360      720    1,080    1,440     3,600
POL at HOn        Iuxps       120,000                 1        2         3        4       10         0      120      240      360      480      1,200
drivers Z RHC   staff-yes      25,515                 6        12       18       24       60         0      153      306      459      612      1,531
TA/DA mod.t *      tupsw.       7,200                 6       12        18       24       60        0        43       86      130      173       432
*pfddelolost   staff-ye    169,980                              1        1        1        3         0        0      170      170      170        510         v -
syrines 3/8"    mitLtin   1,200,000        4.8      5.2      5.6       6.0      6.2      Z    5,760    6,240    6,720    7,200    7,440    33,360               x
syringes 3/4"     mittion   1,200,000     12.0    12.5    13.0        13.0    13.5        64   14,400   15,000   15,600   15,600   16,200    76,800 S      O
ORS pwckets       miLLion   2,000,000                 6        6         6        6       24         0   12,000   12,000   12,000   12,000    48,000 
chloroquinc       mILLion     200,000                 4        4         5        5       18         0      SoO      SOO    1,000    1,000      3,600      o
spray p             units       5,000               100       100      100      100      400         0      500      5O 500             SW      2,000



PAKISTAN PNJA_
SECOI FMIIILY HEALTH PROJECT
ESTINATEO QUANTITIES
14-Oct-92        -------   -------   ---                                    ......  ......      - .       ..                               .
15:53      Type         Uilt       Uilt    ---ODlstfbjtlin of      t ritltIas ----        Total  -Distribution of Total Name Costs -             Total
------- ----------------        f           of        cost....O---                --- ----...    ty of    (Amounts In Rs '000)                                      ham
SJect       --Objct;v    -                 rpt        Irpit       Rs       93i94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    Irput    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    Costs
........-     -----------------    .   ...... .   ... -------. ...... -------  ......  ------.    ----  ----  ........  .......  ......  .......  ------  ----     .........   ,, , ,, 
prlckwr           tuLi_            2             4,000    4 000    4,000   4,000   16,000          0        a        a        a        a        32
microscope          Linfts    20,000                60       60       60       60      240         0    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200     4,800
PC ciutr           units      62,500                           I        I                2         0        0       63       63        0       125
toptapuitr         units    7n.000                            I        1                 2         0        0       75       75        0       Iso
Imar prntr         units      s0,000                          I                          1         0        0       50        0        0        50
dt trz pntr        units      10,000                           1                         1         0        0       10        0        0        10
anti-TS drus    000 ptnts      1,000               2.5        5      7.5       10       25         0        3        s        a       10        25
NInfLlb L/o *cr_sq                          unwts       6,000               400      500      500      500    1,900        0   2,400    3,000    3,000    3,00       11,400
apr. eets          units       7,000               400      900    1,400    1,900    4,600         0   2,800    6,300    9,800   13,300    32,200
1.5        Prvfncft LNO            Jewp                units    450.000                  1                                   1         0      450        0        0        0       450
NutrItion                           fiAmltura          units      s0,000                 1                                   I         0       50        0        0        0        50
POL              lu_sam       80,000                 1         1        I       1        4         0       so       80        o       so       320
psr. costs       Ltupsum      60,000                 1         1        1       1        4         0       60       60       60       60       240
Incrmesntat staff       dy director      stsff-yrs    121,410                 1        1        1        1       4         0      121      121      121       121      46
stom            staff-yrs     35,280                 1         1        1       1        4         0       35       35       35       35       141
AV ast          stsff-yrs     35,280                  1        1        I        1       4         0       35       35       35       35       141
drivr           staff-yrs    25,515                   1        1        1        1       4         0       26       26       26       26       102
peon            staff-yr.    22,290                  1         1       1        1        4         0       22       22       22       22        89
Nutrition staff         chief, nutr      staff-yrs   121,410                  1        1        1        1        4        0      121      121       121      121      486
at PAD                  *tm              stff-yr.    35,280                   1        1        1        1        4        0       35       35       35       35       141                    _
*staff-yr.    22,290                                1         1        1       1        4         0       22       22       22       22        19
fuiri twe          units      60,000                 1                                   1         0       60        0        0        0        60
oper. ests       tumpas&      50,000                  I        1        1       1        4         0       50       50       50       50       200
ALt PNICa                rth  darts       tulnOO 100                        40       SW    1,600    2,000    4,800          0      40       so       160      200       40
(union counail bais)  Iron fotsto         tulpata       7,500               400      900    1,400    1,900    4,6          0   3,000    6,750   10,500   14,250   34,500
Avwrtlfln                                 tu_psum    50,000                            1        1        1        3        0        0      s00      5W0       500     1,s
Annu t _nrkshep                            uows       O 100,000                        1        I        1        3        0        0      100       100      10        300
Systems rresearcd                           m-        500,OOO                 1        I        I        1        4        0      500      500       500      5       2,000
utr .ue & teaching _twrfLs                  units    100,000                  2        4        6        a       20        0      20       400      600      8o       2,000
Tecihnet AsIstace                        mmn-mks    312,500                  a        a        a                24        0   2,500    2,500    2,500          0    7,500
Aml                     tlasrs              wints          50               400      600      7O0      800   2,500          0       20      30        35       40       125
vit A                u            50               400    1,000    1,700    2,500    5,600         0       60      1SO      255      375       840
antiblotIcs F bro lu_ pum        300               400    1,000    1,700    2,500    5,600         0      120      300      510      75o     1,680
1.6 N8  (PK PIC  ls)                                 luosm   2,500,000                   I         1       2        2        6         0   2.500    2,500    5,000    5,000    15,000
NM       NCN/FP-PNIC serviese
cor_tr             units    370,000                  1        3         1                5         0      370    1,110      370        0    1,850
comtr. spn         units      18,5s0                 1        3         1                5         0       19       56       19        0        93
upgractlon      liurop        20,000                Is       15       15       15       60         0      300      300      300      300     1,200
NCN/PF/training- first reomtr               unilts 11,840,000               s50      1001      501                2         0   5,920   11,840    5,920         0    23,680  
contr. spn         units    592,000                 50%      100     s50                 2         0      296      592      296        0     1,18       m  - X
*qulpt & fntr       nilts  8,000,000o501                              1001     so5       2         0        0   4,000    8,000    4,000   16, O         ,      _
recurrent          units   3,500,000                         501      100      s 50      2         0        0    1,750    3,500    1,750     7,Q0       
(decllnhn.)
upgradstion      lu_.a       400,000                           1                         1         0        0      400        0        0       400



- 133 -
Annex 7
Table 4
Page 6 of 6
H n o e o O5 2N     : S.
*                          1     o ,R  q 
' 5t   8 X808N 444 
Ii 
* 111wrr 
.s a
jX   "      hji:wOF 



PAKISTAN KAMA
SECOM  FMILYT NLTO POJiCT
ESTINATO OW,NTITIET
14-Qct-92    ......      -------    -----    ------ ------  ----  ------ ------ --                                 *                      -
11:50     Type        IMit      Unit    ----Distribution of boentitit   ---- Totl  -Distribution of Total Se" Costs -                  Total
----------  -----------------------      of          of        Cost     ------ ------ ------ ------ ------  ty of   (Aunts In ts  000)                                   ass
&Ject               ObJeetiw              Irut       leyut      as      93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/96  Irput    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97r96    Costs
it  STAFF OCWLOPNWE
2.1          NW Feb1. _k1th          hotel              aqft        343         17,000                         17,000         0    5,831         0        0         0     5,831
Incraie   S_otl, ch l                cmtr  pwn         aqft        34.3         17,000                         17,000        0       5s3        0         0        0        583
&Wly                                  reiden            etqft       343         21.700                         21,700         0    7,443        0         0         0     7,443
contr swpn        eqft       34.3         21,700                         21,700         0      744         0        0         0       744
s_-ot             sqt         343          7,150                          ?150         0    2,452         0        0         0     2,452
contr span        eqft       34.3          7,150                          7,150         0      245         0        0         0       245
CII ctr           sqft        347          2,100                          2,100         0      729         0        0         0       729
constr apvn       aqft       34.7          2,100                          2,100         0       73         0        0         0        73
furniture       units  1,370,000               1                                       0    1,370         0        0         0     1,370
eqi _nt          wnits  1,400,000              1                              1         0    1,400         0        0         0     1,400
16-seter       units    450,000               1       1                      2        0       450      450         0         0       900
25-seater        units    850,000              1       1                      2         0      850      850         0         0     1,700
Jew             units    250,000               1                              1         0      250        0         0         0       250
PM.            ltupe      232,500             60X   100S   100X   100X        4         0      140       m        233       233       837
IncruntaL staff         principtl   staff-yrs    92,160                 1      1      1       1       4         0       92        92       92        92       369
n I     pW r   staff-yr.    92,160             1       1      1       1       4         0       92        92       92        92       369
we            staff-yrs    92,160               1      2      2       2       7         0       92       184      184       1         645
hlth e.c    stsff-yrs    74,80                 1       I      1       1       4         0       75        75       75        75       300
nr  _  ttr   staff-yrs    92,160               1       2      2      2        7         0       92       184      184       184       65
PNi fld    r staff-yrs    74,aU0               1       2      2      2        7         0       75       150      150       150       524
Pi nrwt u    staff-yrs    74,880               1       2      2       2       7         0       75       150      150       150       524
ds nr  _    staff-yrs    74,880                1       2      2       2       7         0       75       150      150       150       524
snr LIVs     staff-yrs    35,290               3       5      7       7      22         0      106       176      247       247       776
Engleh tchr staff-yrs    74,880               50X    508    50X    50X        2         0       37        37       37        37       150I
disprsr       staff-yrs    27,180               1      1      1       1       4         0       27        27       27        27       109
houspr       stff-yrs    44 325                2       2      2       2       8         0       89        89       89        89       355
wr cLrk      staff-yr.    31,770               2       2      2      2        8         0       64       6         64       64        254
llbrwruin    staff-yr.    28,530               1       1      1       1       4         0       29       29        29       29        114
Jnr ecIrk    staff-yr.    28,530               1       1      1       1       4         0       29       29        29       29        114
driver        staff-yrs    27,180              2       4      4       4      14         0       54       109      109       109       381
other        staff-yrs    22,290              15      20     20     20       75         0      334      446       446       446     1,672
Iu  "blic kIbth         hostel            tqft         343        17,000                         17,000         0    5,831         0         0        0      5,831
School, SahimL          contr span        sqft        34.3        17,000                         17,000         0       s3         0        0         0        583
resid e           sqft        343         21,700                         21,700         0    7,43         0         0         0     7,443
cantr epn         aqft       34.3         21,700                         21,7O          0      744         0        0         0       74
school             qft        343          7,150                          7,150         0    2,452        0         0         0     2,452
constr spwn       aqft       34.3          7,150                          7,150         0      245         0        0         0       245
OCII ctr          aqft        347          2,100                          2,100         0      729         0        0         0       729
cuntr spun        sqft       34.7          2,100                          2,100         0       73         0        0         0        73
furniture       units  1,370.000               1                              1         0    1,370        0         0         0     1,370
ejip_nt         units  1,400,000               1                              1         0    1,400         0        0         0     1,400
16-seater       wnits    450.000               1       1                      2         0      4SO      4SO         0         0       900
25-seatr        units    850,000               1       1                      2         0      850      850         0         0     1,700
jeep              nilts    250,000             1                              1         0      250        0         0         0       250
POL            leeps.    232,500              608   1008   1008   1008        4         0      140       233      233       233       837
Incr_nantol staff       principal    staff-yrs    92,160                1      1      1       1       4         0       92        92       92        92       369
nrn   Sr    staff-yrs    92,160                1       1      1       1       4         0       92        92       92        92       369       co M t
lio           staff-yrs    92,160               1      2      2       2       7         0       92       184      184       184       645       0w a, 
hLthe jc    staff-yr.    74,880                1       1      1       1       4         0       75        75       75        75       300
nrs _  ttr   staff-yrs    92,160               1       2      2      2        7         0       92       184      184       184       645 
PM fid  .r  staff-yrs    74,880                1       2      2       2       7         0       75       15       1         150 IO    524             _
PN nrs sW    staff-yrs    74,88O               1       2      2      2        7         0       75       150      ISO       150       524 
do  nes _    staff-yrs    74,880                1      2      2       2       7         0       75       150      150       150       524       i.,
or LNVs      staff-yrs    35,280               3       5      7       7      22         0      106       176      247       247       776
Englsh tchr  staff-yrs    74.880              508    508    508   S50         2         0       37       37        37        37       150



PAKISTAN PUNJAS
SECOD FAILT NEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED OJANTITIES
14-Oct-92    --------
11:50     Type       Lnit      unit   ----Distributfon of Qntities ---- Total -Oistribution of TotaL Bes Coats -                   Total
----------      ---...----..-----      of         Of       Cost     ------ ------ ------.-OY Of   AmIts In Re  000)                                             Base
SiJect              Objective            Iat       Irput      Is      93/9   94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98  Input   93/94    94/95    95/96        6/97    97/96    Costs
-- - -  -   -- - - -- - - -- - - -    -- - -     -------   .......    ------ . -----   -- - -   - - -   - - -   - -  - - -  ......  ...... .   -- --  .,  ,,,..... |.
disprr       steff-yrs    2,7180             1       1      1      1       4        0       2?       27       27        27       109
hOWkpr       stsff-yrs    44,325             2      2       2      2       8        0       89       a0       89        89       355
nr ctrk      staff-wa    31.770              2      2      2       2       8        0       6        64       64       64        254
librarfan    staff-yrs    28,530             1      1       1      1       4        0       29       29       29       29        114
jnr ctrk      taff-yrs    28,530             1      1       1      1       4        0       29       29       29       29        114
drivrs       staff-yrs    27,180             2      4       4      4      14        0       54       109      109      109       381
others       staff-yrs    22,190            15    20      20      20      75        0      333      44       44        44      1,664
2.2          (a) PMS-Lw             cretrctn         sqft        370          4,000                        4,000         0    1,480        0        0        0      1,480
sdoot bultdifn         bLdn  sqfn          t         37          4,000                        4,000         0      148        0        0        0        148
Strugth-                            aquwiMnt       tulsu    750,000              252    50S    252              1        0      188      375      188        0        750
aning
Existing
In ti-          residc  offles  cretrctn             aqft        343          6,000                        6,000         0    2,058        0        0        0     2,058
tutionn                             102 csts     btdn pwn       34.3          6,000                        6.000         0      206        0        0        0        206
hostel for          cnrtrctn         sft         334         20,000                       20,000         0    6,680        0        0        0      6,680
100 students        10  cost    bldn pwn        33.4         20,000      0      0      0  20,000         0      668        0        0        0       668
FurP turte                            Iu        800,000             25S   S0     252              1        0      200      400      200        0        800
Truport                50-ater         unit  1,200,000               1      1      1               3        O    1,200    1,200    1,200        0      3,600
16-seater       units   4S,000               1      1       1              3        0      450       450      450        0     1,350
POL           ltusu      247,500             2      4      6       6      18        0      495       990    1,415    1,485     4,455                          1
Incrnut staff,         tutors       staff-yrs    74,880              1      3      4      5      13         0       75      225      300      374        973                         -
Lore                   clinical     staff-wa    74,880               1      3      4      6       14        0       75      225      300      449      1,048                         w
(b) PlS-lutt n         cratrctn         rqft        345         9,750                         9,750         0    3,364        0        0        0      3,364
sod l bulLding      aqui_nt         urits   750,000              25X    5S     252             1         0      188      375      188        0        750
rs Idn   offcers  cnetrctn           sqft        345         7,750                         7,750         0    2,674        0        0        0      2,674
hostet for          cntrctn          aqft        345         17,000                       17,000         0    5,865        0        0         0     5,865
100 stud nts
blutding a_levision   10  cots      Ltup          34.5         34,500      0      0      0  34,500         0    1,190        0        0         0     1,190
fPwnitfre                            tumps    1,370,000             25S   SS    252               1        0      343      685      343         0     1,370
Incrmmtat staff,    tutors          staff-wa    74.880               1      2      3      3       9         0       75      ISO      225      225        674
Mluttn                 ctinical     staff-wa    74,880                      1      1      1       3         0        0       75        75       75       225
PM surv      staff-y      53,460                    1       1      1       3         0        0       53       53       53        160
(b) Cotteg  of         consuttant    _n-m    312,500                24     24     24             72         0    7,500    7,500    7,500         0    22,500
C-nmity Medicine       fellowships      yer  1,000,000               2      3      2      1       8         0    2,000    3,000    2,000    1,000      8,000
Vehicles            6-seater        uits    450,000        1                                   1       4So        0        0        0         0       450
50-easter       units  1,200,000      1                                    1    1,200         0        0        0        0      1,200
POL          tlum        247,500      2      2      2      2       2      10       495      45       495      495      495      2,475
(e) midtitfry training nrs tutor    staff-yr    74,UtO                             4      4       8         0        0         0     300       300       599
for 400 FITs           cLinical     staff-yr     74, 8                             4      4       8         0        0        0       300      300       599
at Ldre &              LW           staff-yr    31,770                             8      a      16         0         0        0      254      254       508 O
Nuttan Po                                                                                                                                                          S  - x
--TA for traineu       FTllT        P eours         200                          200    200     400         0        0        0       40        40        80       0
(d) Advcd MtN&         WNO (M)    staff-yra   121,410                             50S     1       2         0        0         0       61      121       182       LA
PIC training for LII   LL  TA        mt-_      200,000                            2      2       4         0         0        0      400      4         800
Labr



PMI3T*I PW.1118
COD   MIZLY NLTI PROICT
E3TINAMTO UsTITIgS
l4-.et-92    -
11s50     Type       Unit       Unit    ---Olstributfmn of Qantities --   Totat   -Dlstributin of Totat Su  Costs -                      Total
-........   ............. -- - -    -     of         Of        coat.Oty of    (Aumts In t  000)                                                                          1am
"iJ" t               CbJmetf              IWut        IAt        Rs       93/1W  94/95  ff9t   96/f9   97/00  Input      93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    Coats
..........    ..............................  ....... ......... ...... .......  -------. ....... ------ . ----......-------  ........ ------.......  ............. ....-----....-........ .......  ... ..
() Asistant             ydicLm         uWifte    250,000               5       7     13      14      39          0    1,250    1,750    3,250    3,500       9,750
ImII?tr.sa of
sttsl                   POL             aIUn       25,000              5      12     25      39      SI          0      125       300      625       975     2,025
drfiws       *taff-yrs    25,515               5      12     25      39      *1         0       123      306       a5        995     2,07
Ite  staff iu..ivs                     Lum      5,000,000             15S    302    452    60X        2          0      750    1,500    2,250    3,000       7,500
2.3          (a) Cms
In-          mtr   skrs 61200 par   fnitfit        trni  do"         U           2,400  3,600  4,200  4,300  15,000           0       196      294       343       92      1,22
Sevico       ceC, ae                  refr r    trgw dW             165                  3ee   1,200  2,200   4,200            0        0      132       196      3X3        693
Trafnfig
oateb apr  413 pat   fnftlat        trig de"         102             96    276    312    750   1,494           0        10       20        38        76       152
apv I _m   akil         rst Is        t_i a  trr       16                    62    124    259      445          0        0        11       a         4         32
trshaspvdlpsv           initalt       trne ds          102             18     30  U         120     216          0        2         3        5        12         22
s       S _Ittakil      refrsdr    trwg dsy           125                      a      16     32      56          0        0         1        3         6         10
mm  sArtc  wkrs 530 pofnitfat         trng oye          82           306    916  1,224  2,4"    4,89             0       25        75      100       200        400
refresr    trng day           165 6S                         6     204      340         0         0       11        11        34        56
MT 2400 & miro 2a0   initalt          trrn de           25           516  1,5S0  2,064  4,12    8,256            0       13        39       52       103        206
tab t-lsnlu             ref a        trng Cy           25                    344    344  1.032   1,72            0        0        9         9        a2        4S
Lab _at 3oO p           initial       trne ds           a2            S4    186    240    410       960          0        4        1S       20        39         78
tab tcnqm               rof ehe      trnsode          165                     40      0     1600                 0        0         7       13        24   e     6
Sod .aidre. 31ps  initial             tnm dew          102             12      4      16     40      72          0        1         0        2         4          7
i fereo _p  rpsir 
f r4ato s4   par eInitfst             trno ds          102            la      12     30      75     135          0        2         1        3    *              14
Of.BP       3100 pa    inftfit        trg dys           I5            100    300    400    No   1,600            0        2         5        6        12         24
Niuivsa 330  pr         initalt       trig do"          15         1,34   2,0e6  2,352  3,360   9.102            0       20        31       35        so        131
o                        oef M r    tri  dwa            15                          4U      6n2   1,120          0        0         0        7        10         17
W/Fts 2eee pa           initiat      tro dwe2    102                  95 s5         7    1,560   3,120           0       20        59       79       159        317
No                      ref esh      trno days        15                    260    S20  1,0o0   1,320           0        0        4U       96       192        33
Urhb    LW    p 7e iwn   nitfal       trmit s           50            90      90     go    135      465          0        5         5        5         7         20
IuD WImmto",            refr s       triu dw<          so                     15     30      45      90          0        0         1        2         2          5
AS                      fnitiat       tirntdvs         167            36      36      72    130     324          0        6         6       12        30         54
NWFPa/m.V               refrsr    tri  de"            250                      6      12     24      42          0        0         2        3         6         11
_Wa        a            initfai      tnu don          117                   I1      192    384      78           0        6        17       22        45         90
P, NM    suprv thq  rfr who          tre dw 2dy                               32     32      96     160          0        0         6        6        19         32
9tss  gm pars.          inftiti       tmg da"          102            90    270    360    720   1,40             0        9        n        37        73        146
nP, NN PnC    skfils  refrs"         trs dws          165                    120    120    360      600          0        0        n        22        67        111
UrhSm WP 30 UW   7e Initfei           trned             50            130    240    252    373   1,050           0        9        12       13        19         53
hefic  btetrfcs         ref rher    trni  dws          50                     1s     35 5 6         106          0        0         1        2         3          5
Nos dmarg  fo trne                    trnowd          300       0    130    255    237    434   1 156            0       S4        77        a       130        347          i
lc e     ref otra 75 pafnitfst        trig da         lt            600    900  1,020  1,500   4,020            0       70       105      119       175        469      2     o
wmeetsesa               re fShf                                                                                                                                          w
We a INC ref et's 30 pfnftiat         trne  dyp          7           720  1,0ee 1,260  1,o        4,860          0       34       124      U7        210        57  r       
mJer ot procsias
Wm  ae n     100 par    inftfit      tre do"           117           14      24     2       372   1,032          0       1?        a        32        43        120



PAgISTAN PUIJA
SECWD FMILY HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES
14-oct-9    -- --  - -...... .  .......  ..... . .. -   ---   ----------             ---  ---      ....... ,,-,,,,-,,,,,,,   ......  .......,,,,,,,,,_
1150     Type       Unit      Wit    --- Distribution of Quentities ---- Total   -Distribution of TotatL Be   Costs -              TotatL
-      of         of       Cost     ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ oty of    (Amounts In Rr p000)                            Be"
SubJect             Objective           Input       Input     ks       93/94  94/95  95/96  96/91  97/96  Irnpt    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    Costs
- - - - -   .. . . . . . . . . . ..   -- - -      . . ..    -- - -    -- --    -- --   -- - - - - -_- - -  - -     .... .   ......   -- - -   . . ..    ......
minor obet procedire   refroher    trni  dy         200                    12    32      55      99         0         0        2        6        11        20
iSt 32 per             initial      tme de"         117              8     12    14      20      54         0         1        1        2        2         6
asctosle
Was a  ICs 100 pos   Initfal        trng des        117             42     60     72     93     267          0        5        7        a       11         31
non-sriFP              refrsher    trni do"         200                    14    34      58     106         0         0        3        7       12         21
Lv/FVIT 100 pwsrs     inftiaL       trvg dwy        102            84    120    126    192      S22         0        9        12       13       20        53
FP/IUS inrrtlon
W h8II o  100    F  Initial    trng  de        117             42     60     72    93      267          0        5        7        8       11         31
gaesFP                 refresher   trng dys         200                    14    34      58     106         0         0        3        7       12         21
ft 20    rsf          _ refrese     trng dey        150                    56    136    232     424         0         0        8       20       35        6
FP
We at Rts 300 pen    initalt        trn  dwy        117             54    186    240    480     960         0         6       22      Z        56        112
TN suviLLarce          roereser    trm  dop         200                    40     80    160     2e0         0        0         8       16       32        56
We at Ri 2700      s p  nitl        trfat  de       117            261    783  1O044  2,068   4,176         0        30       91      122      244       487
CDC & coe
Dilo & Ait128 pwnsintitt            trne de"        150             32     48     56     8o     216         0         5        7        8       12        32
F,                    rofresr       trni  de"       250                    16    40      68     124         0        0         4       10       17        31
Dlr.ctors llth Srcs   initit        trru de"        150             12                    6      18         0         2        0        0        1          3
Fn                    refresr    trng de            250                    6       6      6      18         0        0         2        2        2         5                          1
(b) Tutors                                                                                                                                                                           w
Neter trdn-rs          initial      trnu des        117             72    168    240    480     960         0         8       20       28       56        112
Iter treirws                        staff-yrs    53,460       5      6      7      7      7      32        267      321      374      374      374      1,711
District treiurs                    staff-yrs    47.565      93    124    155    155    155     682     4,424    5,896    7,373    7,373    7,373    32U439
Tecimcal Aset.         conmultwit     man-1s    312.500      6      12      6                    24      1.875    3.750   1875         0        0     7,500
(d) Preolifcal        cmtr          l1mpiu   3,626,000               1                            1         0    3,626         0        0        0     3,626
Health                cmutr mpln  L1            181,000              1                            1          0      181        0        0        0        181
DeWr t                 hostel       1usm    2,671,000                1                            1          0    2.671        0        0        0      2.671
Center                comtr span  l1m           134,000              1                            1          0      134        0        0        0        134
In LtJ                  qiu1nt    lpe         4.000,000      1                                    1     4,000        0         0        0        0     4,000
furniture   tlMIsPA   1,000,000               I                            I         0    1,000         0        0        0     1,000
vehicle      lupeum    350,000         1      2                            3        350      700        0        0        0      1,050
0         0        0        0         0        0         0
PM.          L1speL       52,500       1      3      3      1      1       9         53      158      15e       53       53        473
0         0        0        0         0        0         0
WPS-1        staff-yrs    92,160      6       6      6      6      6      30        553      553      553      553      553      2,765
mn- 1T       staff-yr.    74,880       8      8      a      8      8      40        599      599      599      599      599      2,995
1116         staff-yr.    53,460      8       8      8      8      8      40        428      428      428      428      428      2,138
Vs-is        staff-yrs    47,565       1      1      1      1      1       5         48       48       48       48       48        238
PS-12        staff-yr.    38,070      3       3      3      3      3      15        114      114      114      114      114        571
Ws-11        staff-yr.    35,280       2      2      2      2      2      10         71       71       71       71       71        353
ES-4         staff-yr.    25,515      6       6      6      6      6      30        153      153      153      153      153        765
aPS-1        staff-yr.    22,290      10    10      10    10    10        50        2Z3      223      223      2        223      1,115
0         0        0        0         0        0         0
Districts              cmtr dv/d  units       1,289,500       0     8       2      9     11      30          0   10,316    2,579   11,606   14,185    38,685
Iealth                con tr epn units           64,475      0      8       2      9     11      30          0      516      129      sao      709      1,934      V -  -
Doel     t             htotl        units     2,111,500      0       8      2      9     11      30          0   16,892    4,223   19,004   23,227    63,345      co 0. 
constr  pn   units       105.575      0       8      2      9     11      30          0      845      211      95O    1,161      3,167     M   |xl
0         0        0        0         0        0         0             
eqipsnt    tepi.         82s,000      0       8      2      9     11      30          0    6,600    1,650    7,425    9,075    24,750         - '
furniture    tmpsum    675,000        0      8       2      9     11      30          0    5,400    1,350    6,075    7,425    20,250      
0         0        0        0         0        0         0
vs-I17       staff-yes    74,880      0       8     10    19    30        67          0      599      749    1,423    2,246      5,017      '
BPS-16       staff-yea    53,460       0     40     50     95    150     335          0    2,138    2,673    5,079    8,019    17,909



PAKISTAN PMJPAS
UCOS FAMILY WEALTH PIOJECT
ESTIMATED aLANTITIES
14-oct-92     --- -       -- - -      -- -      -- - - - - -   -- - - - - -   -- - - - - -     . . .    .. . .    . . .     --  --     - - -
11:50     Type        uni1t      uniIt    ---- Olstribution of Ouwntltfss ---- Total  -Distribution of TotaL Bass costs -                   Total
-------   ----------------      of          of       cost----O---   ----------   ty of   (Amoun,ts in Rs '000)                                                   Be"t
"hJo"                Object1vs             Inpu        Irpjt      Rs       93/94  94/95  95/96  9/97  971/96  Irput    93(94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    Costs
WS-12         staff-yes    38.070        0      a      10     19      30       67         0      305       381       72      1.142     2,551
014-11        staff-Yea    35,2Uo        0      a      io     19      30       67         0      232       353       670    1.058      2.364
PS-4         staff-yea    25.515        0       8     10      19      30      67         0       204       255       485      765      1.710
WE-1          staff-yea    22,290        0     40      50     95    150      335          0      392    1.115    2,118    3,344        7.467
AtlL othe  trng cotst                   timsam   1.000.000             1.5       2      2       2       6          0    1,500     1,500    1,500    1.500       6.000
tnIt DNDC)  turp.           60,000              a       0      0       0        a         0      480          0        0         0        480
PNDC misc.   Liue&m    1,000,000    0.5         I       1       1      1      4.5       500    1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000        4,500
OUC MISC.   hus&.u         100,000              a      10      19     30       67         0       So      1,000    1,900    3.000       6.700
PNDC1TAJDA   uip.t         150,000       I      1       I       I      I        5       150       150       150      150       150        750
DNC TAJDA   tLmptu          80,000              8      10      19     30       67         0       640        0     1,520    2,400       5.360
Sub-total Staff devaLpeet                I595   158.669   60,766  101.913  112,324   449.623
'cox
0 V



PAKISTAM PaMJ
SECOC  FAMILY HEALTH PIIOJECT
ESTIMATED QLvANTITIES
14-Oct-92         --                                                          - - - --   -   ---  -       ---    -----   -
11:45       Type         Unit       Unit   ----Distributfon of auentities ---               Totat -Distribution of Totat Bass Costs  -               Total
Of           of        Cost            . ---        .                ------  Qty of   (Asounts in Rs 000)                               Base
ubject             ObJective               Input         Irput       Rs       93/94    94/95    95/6    96/97    97/96    Input   93/94    94/95    f/96    96/97    97/98           Costs
-- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -     .......   .   ..... -------..-------..------..------  ...... .   ...... .. -- --  .......     .....,....  ..  ,....  ......  .... . .  .... .. ........
------------------------------------. .    .......  ----  -----  ----  ----- ......  .......  ......    .....   ......   . .. ...  . ... ..  ......  ... .. . 
III   IANAGUNT DEVELOPMENT
3.1        Hbatth                    hwr/sftwr             units    150,000        0        9        12       15       18       54        0    1,350    1,800    2,250    2,700         8,100
"atth      1ns_mgit                  trainfng            tuLps4      75,000        0        9        12      15        18       54        0      675      900    1,125    1,350         4,050
Infor_tion S"tm           rpoGrt publ         tuL  m       1,000        0      300      700     1200      2700     4900        0      300      700    1,200    2,700         4,900
3.2        (a) Socretarit            sqpnt                 units   500,o00         1        2                                    3      s5o    1,000         0        0        0        1,500
bdicd   Plming                       vehiceLs              units   350,000         1        3                                    4      350    1,050         0        0        0        1,400
Pt mfng  C tt
POL                lum..    52,500           1        4         4        4        4       17        53      210      210      210      210           89
Incr_ntal staff           BPS-19           staff-yra    121.410         0        1        1         1        1        4        0      121      121       121      121          486
Bps-Il           staff-yrs    74,880         0        3         5        5        5       is         0      225      374      374      374         1,348
tb) Ntb1th Unit -         qulint               units   500,oo0                   1                                    1        0      s5o        0         0        0          500
Project Training          vdhfcLas              units   350,000                  2                                    2        0      700         0        0        0          700
In titute
POL                Lumt um    52,500                   2        2        2        2        8         0      105      105      105      105           420
Iner_mntaL staff          BPs-18           staff-yrs      92,160        0        3        3        3                  9        0      276      276       276        0          829
BS-12            staff-yrs     38,070        2         2        2        2                 8        76       76       76       76        0           305
BPS-Il           staff-yrs     35,280        1         1        1        1                 4        35       35       35       35        0           141
c) Prolect                ftiiitire           ltm.u    120,000          1                                             1      120        0        0         0        0          120
Coondirmtifn              qulp_nt             tlu        563,689        1                                             1      56S        0         0        0        0          564
vdlelci              units    750,000        2        2                                    4    1.500    1,500         0        0        0         3,000
Offfie quip        Lustu      360,000        1         1        1        1        1        5       360      360      360      360       360        180
Miscellaous        lmpsIum    310,000        1         1        1        1        1        5       310      310      310      310       310         1550
Incrinstal staf   tumpam  1,226,260          1        1         1        1        1        5      1226     1226     1226     1226     1226        6,131
POL                tutpsm    250,000          1        1        1        1        1        5       250      250      250      250       250        1.250
KI  sniitneing            toelfor coen     Lufi.u    11,250,000        251      251      20X       151      151       1    2,813    2,813    2,250    1,688    1,688        11,250
Project                trvt & miew         l.Wsu      500,000        1        1        1         1        1        5       soo      so0      soo      soo     s50         2,500
__nagamuit             Pr_-Inch ikap       LuIpsm    250,000         1                                             1       250        0        0        0        0          250
mid evaluation            Arlt ihp            tulspu     250,000                 1        1         1        1        4         0      250      250      250      250        1,000
"at                tLMu.  1,000o000                  251      100s5              25s       2         0      250    1,000       soo      250        2,000
mid-trm rev        lumps   1.000,000                            1                          1         0        0    1,000         0        0        1,000
tocons           staff-yrs    240,000        1        1         1                          3       240      240      240        0        0           720
pr r ation         Ltuieu  2,500,000                                    5x       so0                 0        0        0    1,250    1,250         2,500
(f) Lecal             Locat TA      mn"-        200,000       30        30       30       1s        0      105    6,000    6,000    6,000    3,000          0       21,000
TA for Vet          ESe train       mn-day       22,000       30        30       30       15                105      660      660      660       330        0        2,310
Develonimt              office       tumpsum   1,998,000         1        1        1      0.5               3.5    1,996    1,998    1,996        999        0        6,993
Educa Ibt         tuaim    7,500,000                   1                                   1         0    7,500        0         0        0        7,500
LIV TA           _mn-m        200,000        0        0         1        1        1        3         0        0      200      200       200          600
(g) InternstLt        H. Ptnmin      _mn-as       312,500        4         4        4        2        1       1s     1,250    1.250    1,250       625      313        4,618
Nmansmmnt           Info  stm        mi-a       312,500         4        4        2        1        1        12    1,250    1,250       625      313      313        3,750
Institution           fellowship      years    1,000,000        6         4        3        1                14    6,000    4,000    3,000    1,000          0       14,000
feltoahfpi .     m-a        125,000        0        4         4        4                12         0      500      500       soo        0        1,500
hasp rat trnr    mn-mo       312,500        9        6         3        3                21     2813    1,875       938       938        0        6,563
m-wVer trnr    mn-a          312,500       12        12        6        3        3       36    3,750    3,750    1,875        938      938       11,250
Poputatfan              fmPtan            _n--o        312,500        3        2        1                           6       938      625      313        0        0         1,875     1 5     x
A_arm-nas                mpowsr tnrw    mi-s          125,000        1        1        1         1                 4       125      125      125      125        0           500     -
0'-
Hospital _Iar             initial          trng de"          167               720    1,00    1,260    1,800       4860         0      120      180      210      300           810
t465 persmml              refreaher        trne de"s         167                        180      450      765     1395          0        0       30       75      128          2m3



PAKISTMI PtMJA
ECOI FPWIL  xEALTN PROJECT
ESTIMATD tLUNTITIES
14-Oct-92     -------         ......      -----    ------   ------   ......   ......   ......    .....   ------   ------   .....   ------   ------               _
11:45       Type          unit        Unit    ----Dlstrlbutlon of  uenttltes  ----              Total  -Distributlin of Total Bass Costs -                  Total
------------------------------------         of            of        Cost      ------   ------   ......   ......   ......   ty of    (An'ts in Rs '000)                                    Be"
J.ct                ObJwtive                I epA           rwut        3.       93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    irput         /9      94/rf     95/96    96/97    97/n         Costs
3.3
Expw  ed                               Vshitcls              units    350,000          0        *         a        9         9       30         a    1,C00    2,800    3,0so    3,1s5          10,500
vision     Trawt                       TAJDA            ds-yr              167         0    1,120    2,600    4,760    7,000    1S680           0      la        466      795    1,169          2,619
*ptim-      Costs
POL                 tums.u       73.000        0         4        12       21        30       67         0      300      90      1,575    2,250         5,025
Informtion Siot            dots proc.         tuqain         3,000         0        4        10        17       25        56        0        12       30        51       75           166
3.'
teicos                                 Short ra_             units       0,000       100      300       500      700       aD0     2400       OM    2,400    4,000    5,600    6,400           19,200
5esmk                                   sd rue               units      15,000        30      100       100       50        25      305       450    1,5so     1,s50      75o       375         4,575
Lqo  ruw_             unfts     25,000        30        30        0         0         0       60      75o       70          0        0         0        1,S50
Fxashinr              urito     15,000        30        25        0         0         0       55      450       375        0         0        0           825
Pt eontract          smptmu     40,000        1o        1S       20        20        31       96      400       600      SW        a00    1,240         3,840
Sys   s TA         M_os        125,000         2         0        0         0         0        2      250         0         0        0         0           250
Sib-totat N_sginit Do_tq_nt                                                                        33,929   44.525   32,076   24,680   19,779         13,278
o  -I
0
H i
I J



PAKISTAN P63AL COW0WI
sreCW FAILT NEALTN PlOJECT
SlIMTrD GUmTITIES
14.ftt-92      .......      *-.-         -----    ------   ------   ------    ----    ------    -----  *             ---                                        _
16:01       Type          Unit    tUnit    ----Distrltbaton of Guentitls ----                  Totat -Distribution of Totat Bas  Coats                   Totat
---------- -------------------         of            of       Cost     ------   ------   ------   -.....    ----       Oty Of  (ZA 'ts In iSt  Oil)                                 So
SLJict            bJectfve            Ireut         I.rut       RS       93/9%    94/5    9/96    96/97    97/96   Itrut   93/94    94/5    95/96    96/97    97/96                 coats
----------    -------------------  -------   -------   .   . .    . ...  .....  -- --  ------  -- -- . -- -  ...... . . ........  ------  ------ .  ------  ------... ... ... ... ...
I      ISUIDAN    CAPITAL TVMlTQT                                                                                                                   -
I.          cimt hairs          rcr  MmCaU               ts    200,000                  *         4        *                  12        0       lOO      MO        boo        0        2  eo
nta 1,                          MCM scc* Ab           unts  ilts800000                            1                            I        0         0      SW          0        0          g00
wid                              *tctrcty,utr         units    100,000                  3                                      3        0       300        0         0        0          300
Cl td
_Ittit      Eqili t             di kftu               unilt      1,000                 100      150       200                *50        0       100      150       200        0          450
It  kits             units      2, 0l                 10        15        15        5        45        0        20       30        30       10           90
Ifrubtwre            units     60,000                   1        1         1                  3        0        60       60        60        0          1SO
gnwthi.mnftor        units     10t000                  10       10                           20        0       100       100        0         0         20
times                units      1.000                  10       10                           20        0        10       10         0        0           20
lbr r suite          wuit     100,000                  5         a                           13        0       5W      Soo         0        0        1,300
VNF rdlo             units     25,000                  10       10                           20        0       250      250         0         0         5W
sateltf  ctnc        units     50,000                            1                            1        0         0       50         0         0          50
tra 8lSW/=           unilts    50, Ol                  2         2                            4        0       100      100         0        0          200
nrtr a MM            units     25.000                   5        6                           13        0       125      200         0         0         325
tab aper           tupsm       12,000                  2         4         4        4        14        0        24       48        48       48          168
autnce               unlts    850 000                   2        2                            4        0    1,700    1, 7i          0         0       3,400
Jep                  Units    350:000                   1        1                            2        0       350      350         0        0          700
P0LX mi            tun    127500                        2        4         4         4       14        0       255      510       510      510       17'5
PM  Jewp           lumsu       37r500                   1        2         2         2        7        O        38        75       75        75         263
Wrtr epr           tu_pum       6,000                   5       13        13        13       U         0        30       76        78        7e         264
KM  TS trtt ntLtu_             25,000                   3        3         3        3        12        0        75       75        75       75          3O0
No Ea iIs          ltu .       50,000                   3        3         3         3       12        0       150      150       150       150         600
microautmn"        lumsum      20,000                   1        1         1         1        4        0        20       20        20        20          80
cantracptvs        tuu              1            131,000  135,000  139,000  143,000  54, 000           0       131      135       139      143          54_
Training            TOAtnq            sessions      3,000                 150                                   150         0      450         0        0         0         450
refreie           sessions        500                          150       150      150       450        0         0       ns        ns        n5         225
Nidal/Dvasjs    Sealon          3,000                  10       10                           20        0        30       30         0         0          60
LIs               senssns      12,000                  10       12                           22        0       120      14          0         0         264
MCN, P I ItlD
mlnse              sas            300                   6                                     6        0         2        0         0         0           2
km O0/6TV         sesson       25,000                   1        1         1         2        5        0        25       25        25        50          125
NO pid &I _        senl        25,000                   1        1         1         2        5        0        25       25        25       50          125
AINI             sle nim      150,000                   I                                     I        0       150        0         0         0          1SO
sfrdriir          sessin          300                           27       so        51       128        0         0        8        15        1s          38
VIW FrM_t           VNW kital rapLc      unfts         750                100      100       100       300      600         0   n s   n s              75   * 25             450
W  trvu           asesi.          600                 100      100       100                300        0        60       60        60        0          18O
TA/DA              l_psm          100                 100      100       100                300        0        10       10        10        0           30
LiN horaria        tLisw       60,000                   1        1         1                  3        0        60       60        60        0          180
Equint              fax _d 1:a           units     75,000                   4                                     4         0      300         0        0         0         300
ceuter               units   1SO,000                    2                                     2        0       300        0         0        0          300      o - 
Printer              units     25,000                   2                                     2        0        so        0         0        0           so
accessorie        I u         15,000                   2                                     2        0        30        0         0        0           30
photocopier          uniU     100,000                   1                                     1        0       100        0         0        0          100
tat_onas             units     15,000                  3                                      3        0        45        0         0        0           45       - 4
adlmo-vlsiu1         unilts    2508,O0                  I                                              0       250        0         0        0          250      0
gwnator              units     25,0O                    t                                     1        0        25        0         0        0           25
JeeP                 wits    350,000                   1                                               0       350        0         0        0          350



PAKISTAN FEDERAL CaWOENT
SECOQ FAMILY HEALTH PIOECT
ESTIMATED QUIATITIES
14-Oct-92       -------    ------                       - -----    ------   ------   ------                                          ----- . .    -
16:01       Type         Lilt      Unit   ----Distribution of OuAntitlf  ....              TotaL   -Dlstrlbutlon of Totat Base Costs -               Total
-------  -------------      of           of       cost....O---                 --- .... ...                ty of     (Amy.ats in Re p000)                            Base
SUbject          Objective           Irput        Irpit       e        93/94    94/95    9/96    96/97    97/96    Input        93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96      Costs
--------_ -- - - - - - - - -  -- ---          --- -  .. . .  - --   ----      --- -    .  . .   . . ..    ---       --- -    .. ..    .. . .   - - -      ---  --,,
PFM               tul wu    52.500                    1        1        1        1        4          0       53       53       53        53         210
copier  w         tustu       15,000                  1        1        1        1        4          0       15       15      s1         15          60
telephn           L uqe.      12,000                 3         3        3        3       12          0       36       36       36       36          144
gertaor           lupau       6,000                  1        1        I        1        4          0        6        6        6         6          24
NO In-dh, Ptl    salons    500,000                    1                 1        1        3          0      500        0      500       500       1,500
epidmlotogt    smssIoas  1,000,000                    1                                    1         0    1,000        0        0         0       1,000
D010             sessIonr    500,000                  1                                    1         0      500        0        0         0         500
Equi  nt            finflIe            unfit      25,000                 5         8                         13          0      125      200        0        0          325
syrines         thousand       1,200               350       350      350      350    1,400          0      420      420      420      420        1,680
sprayrs            wunits      2,000                 5         5                         10          0       10       10        0         0          20
coLd dcin           units      1,000                 5        1S       10                30          0        5       15       10         0          30
rfrIgeWator         units      6,000                 5        10        6                21          0       30       60       36         0         126
deep freeze         units    40,000                   1                                    1         0       40        0        0         0          40
Ice-lid frd*       unfts    60,000                   1                                    1          0       60        0        0        0           60
itorcycLes          units    30,000                  10       11                         21          0      300      330        0         0         630
Jep                 units   350,0D0                  2                                    2          0      700        0        0        0          700
POL itroycle      LLtu_ a      4,500                 10       21       21       21       73          0       45       ff       95        95         329
POL Joep          Ltum        52,500                 2         2        2        2        6          0      105      105      105       105         420
Training           CDCS & CI         sesons        1,500                 5        10       12               2n           0        a       15       18        0           41
MD  CDC Al T       ea          5,000                  5       10        7                22          0       25       50       35         0  d      110
tab tech         sass          5,000                 5        11                         16          0       25       55        0        0           80
dlfsques         seonsa        2,000                 3                                    3          0        6        0        0         0           6
x-, dent tech    sed  or0      5,000                 6                                    6          0       30        0        0         0          30
refreshe         sesions         300                          18       49        7       74          0        0        5       15         2          22
Tedcnical aIsta                       t lupu     125,000                 2                  4                 6          0      250        0      500        0         750
Pltot yrfnge study                    Lum        100,000                 1                                    1          0      100        0        0        0          100
Mid-Te  Evat stLdy                    leu_s   500,000                              1                          1          0        0      500        0        0          500
Incr_ntst lstaff A01i0             stff-yrs       74,860                 1        1         1        1        4         0       75       75        75       75         300
O               staff-yrt    74,860                            3        3        3        9          0        0      225      225       225         674
not dent a"u  staff-wso    74.8601                    1        3        3        3       10          0       75      225      22        225         749
NWEO            staff-e       74,880                  1        1        1        1        4          0       75       7S       75       75          300
spfdm           staff-we    121,410                   1        1        1        1        4          0      121      121      121       121         486
AIIS            staff-yw      44,325                  1        1        1        1        4          0       44       44       44        *4         177
mires           staff-yr      44,325                 2         2        6        6       16          0       Uo       89      266      266          709
LItV            staff-yre     31,770                  1        2        2        2        7          0       32       64       64       64          222
md tedc         staff-yre    30,015                  3         6        9        9       27          0       90      160      270      270          81o
x-rd nteh       staff-yre     30.015                  1        1        1        1        4          0       30       30       30       30          120
dantalt tec     staff-We      30.015                  1        1        1        1        4          0       30       30       30       30          120
proJetn t       staff-e       28,530                  1        1        1        1        4          0       29       29       29       29          114
iatuivos        staff-we      25,968                 5        10       15       19       49          0      130      260      369      493        1,272
dispeqr         staff-yrs     25,965                  1        1        1        1        4          0       26       26       26        26         104
steno           staff-yrw     38,070                 1         2        2        2        7          0       38       76       76        76         266
east            staff-yre    35,260                  1         1        1        1        4          0       35       35       35       35          141
Dc              staff-wre     28,530                  1        1        1        1        4          0       29       29       29        29         114        00
LOC             staff-yre     25,965                  1        3        3        3       10          0       26       78       78        78         260              P
storekeepr      staff-yre    28,530                   1        2        2        2        7          0       29       57       57       57          200           m x
driver          staff-yre    25,515                  4         9        9        9       31          0      102      230      230       230         791           s4
others          staff-yrs     22,290                 2         2        6        6       16          0       45       45      134       134         357        0
Project Coordinetion m
(AIL cpnnts) 
Ewipent            crat r              units    150,000                  2                                    2          0      300        0        0         0         300



PAKISTAN FEDERAL COWOST
SEOOMD FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATEDO WATITIES
14-Oct-92     -------      -------     -----    ......   ------   ------   .....  ------    -----    -        -    ------   ------.
16:01       Typ          Unit      Unit    ----Distribution of Quentities -...             Totat   -Distribution of Total Bae Costs -                Total
.... .............                  of           of        coetst   ----               -Oty of    (Amowits in Rs '000)                                                       Isoe
Subject          objective          input         input       Rs       93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/96    Iriput     93/94    94/95    95/96    96/9'7   9l7'96     Costs
_ _ _      _ _   _- -- - - - - - - - -  -- - -  -- - ----      -     -----   ----   -  -- -     .. ..    -- --     -- -     -  - -   - ---  ---    -    .. ..    .. ..-
Printer             units     25,000                  2                                   2          0       50         0        0        0          50
accesories       ltsu         15,000                 2                                    2          0       30         0        0        0          30
photocopier         units   100,000                   1                                   1          0       100        0        0        0         100
telephoe            units     15,000                 3                                    3          0       45        0         0        0          45
Furniture          furniture       lueiu         93,400                  1                                               0       93        0        0        0           93
tpmetl          ecots 0ffice minten  tumsm       30,000                  1        1         1        1        4          0       30       30       30        30         120
tstepho,u         tu_ei       50,000        1         I        1        I        1        5         50       50       S0        50       50         250
elect. te.        tu a        50.000        I         I        1        1        1        5         50       S0        50       S0       50         250
stetionwry        tuleua    100,000         1         1        1        I        1        5        100      100       100      100      100         500
Niseitnmr         tuLpau      50,000        1         1        1        I        1        5         50       50        50       50       50         250
Inrer_ntat staff  Innremental staf  luem       620,800         1        1        1        1        1        5        621       621      621      621      621       3,104
TOTAL ICT                                                                                                              871   14,655   11,894    7,780    6,267       41,466
-_
it     QO  - I1AAa
Socialt welfe      PlIS SchooL        LLmpum  2.228W000               60.0    40.02                          1          0    1,337      891        0         0       2,228
Society,           Iostet for 60    liLmta  5,506,000                 60.02    40.02                          1          0    3,304    2,202        0        0        5,506
Rawatpindi         NCR Centre         Limpu     494,000              100.02                                   1          0      494        0        0         0         494
eznt srvcs        tumpsm   1,234,000              25.02    75.02                          1          0      309      926         0        0       1,234
den & suprvan  ltuapm    350,000                   70.0X    30.02                         1          0      245       105        0        0         350
Gares             lasm       500,000                        50.02    50.0X                I          0        0       250      250        0         Soo
Security guard   ltusua       40,000              100.02                                  1          0       40         0        0        0          40                          41
Boundry  tt asl  bua         225,000              100.02                                  1          0      225         0        0        0         225                          "
coaster 20          units   850,000                   1                                   1          0      850         0        0        0         850
Equip_nt           PIgS eqipent        units   3W,W000                  602      402                          1          0      180      120        0         0         300
hostel eqidpoant   units   127,000                  60X       402                         1          0       76        51        0        0         127
NU  ctr  et         units    100,000                  1                                   1          0       100        0        0        0         100
Furnituro          PuS furniture       units     44,00                  602      4OX                          1          0       26       18        0        0           44
Noetel furniture    wits   430,000                    1                                   1          0      430         0        0        0         430
Totat lOeS                                                                                                               0    7,616    4,563      250        0       12,428
III    HEALTh SYSTENS RESEARCH AID DEVELOPMENT
Ca) RePserch priorities
Worklsop           Workshop        units           2,000       25       25       25        25               100         50       50       50       50         0         200
(b) Cacity D0e9flqont
- conewwA building
tocol           units          1,000      100      100                                  20         100      100        0         0        0         200
intntt          units         37,500        2        2                                    4         75       75        0         0        0         1S0
(c) Training
poticy mkers   units           2,500       20        20       20       20                80         50       S0        50       S0        0         2W
health  wagers units           3,000      100       100      100      100               400        300      300       300      300        0       1,200
reserchers      units          7,000      100      100       100                        300        700      70       700         0        0       2,100
Cd) Institutional soLprt            twPau        100,000        3        3        3        1                 10        300      300      300      100        0        1,000         10 H3 |
OQ a, 
(e) Technica( Assistance                                                                                                                                                            0
FeLlowships     fettows       75, 00       12        12       12        4                40        900      900      900       300        0       3,000
Locat conelts  men-months   125,000        12       12        12       12                48      1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500         0       6,000               -.
foreign conetts en-months   250,000         8        8         8        8                32      2.ODO    2.000    2,000    2,000         0       8,000
(f) Propost DeeLopont 4 Rsrch prtLupa         3,300,000         2        3        3        2                 10      6,600    9,900    9,900    6,600         0      33,000 



- 144 -
Annex 7
Table 7
Page 4 of 4
@41
,,    0,'  Xe
:::li 11
:     I:'"S';  1
II
~s   .'       I
a,z@  ]o,y . I
-l-@e$ 
:"" i8 8U
iisaNg



- 145 -
Annex 8
PAKISTAII
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Procurement Procedures
For items to be financed from the Credit, the standard bidding
procedures of the Government are considered appropriate, provided that the
following are observed:
(a)   Prospective bidders should be allowed at least 30 days to submit
bids from the date of the invitation to bid or availability of bid
documents, whichever is later, and require the bid invitation to
so specify;
(b)   Require the invitation to bid to be advertiz-d in the local
newspapers;
(c)   Require contracts to be awarded to the bidder who submits the
lowest evaluated responsive bid in accordance with the criteria
set out in the bid documents. To this end, the bid documents may,
where appropriate, specify factors, in addition to price, which
would be taken into account in determining the lowst evaluated
bid, and how such factors would be quantified or otherwise
evaluated;
(d)   Require the bids to be opened in public so that the bidders, or
their representatives are present at the bid opening, and require
the invitation to bid to so specify;
(e)   Preclude negotiations to be carried out with the lowest, or any
bidder, except with the Association's concurrence;
(f)   Require the time of the bid opening to be the same as that
specified for the latest delivery of bids;
(g)   Require late bids to be rejected; and
(h)   Require contracts expected to run more than 12 months to contain
suitable provision for any necsesary adjustments in materials and
labor costs.



- 146 -
Annex 9
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT - STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements
[USS Milions]
Accumulated          Undisbursed
DIsbursements                                BalsaeentP e
Fiscal Yer/
Semester Ending| Amount ||   Amount [S                    | Amount [i
FY 1994
December 1993       0.5      1.0         0.5       1.0       47.5      99.0
June 1994           3.0       6.3        3.5       7.3       44.5      92.7
FY 1995
December 1994       2.4      5.0         5.9      12.3       42.1      87.7
June 1995           3.6       7.5        9.5      19.8       38.5      80.2
FY 1996
December 1995       4.1       8.5       13.6      28.3       34.4      71.7
June 1996           4.3       9.0       17.9      37.3       30.1      62.7
FY 1997
December 1996       4.9      10.2       22.8      47.5       25.2      52.5
June 1997           5.1      10.6       27.9      58.1        20.1     41.9
FY 1998
December 1997       5.7      11.9       33.6      70.0        14.4     30.0
June 1998           6.0      12.5       39.6      82.5         8.4     17.5
FY 1999
December 1998       4.6       9.6       44.2      92.1         3.8      7.9
June 1999           3.8       7.9       48.0    100.0          0.0      0.0
Note: First year disbursements reflect the Special Account Deposits and retroactive financing.
The closing date Is June 30,1999.
03-Nov-92



- 147 -
Annex 10
PAKISTAN                                                Table A
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT - STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
r 12/93          1  , 9F        10I9             9         16 .          1907/91.
Component                               PREP YEAR    PROJ YR1   I PROJ YR.2    PROJ YR 3    PROJ YR.4  IPROJ YR65
I. STRENGTHENING HEALTH SERVICES
Cliv works
Punjab-Urban Health Coenterc            xxxii      xpppppppqbba ccococcccccc   cc
NGOI Priv. In.                       xxxiI     xpppppppqbba coccocccccoc  coccoccccoc  coccocococo
Baloch-CH Centres. LHV accom.           xxxil      xpppppppqbba cccoccococ  coccccococo  ccocccococc  coccooococc
FPAP Hoep. & Public Health Lab.      xxxii     xpppppppqbba coccocccccc   coccoccoccoc  occococooco
F.dera]-RHC/BHU repairs, MCH                       xxxxoipppppppp ppbbaccccoc   coccccococc  coccocococc
Fumiture                                   xx          mmmppq   ppba  dd        ppba  dd      ppba  dd       ppba  dd
Equipment & Medicine                       xx        mmmqqqbbbb bb   dd         bb   dd       bb   dd        bb   dd
Communication & Transport
Vehicles, Mopeds, Bicycles               xxx       mmpppqqbbbb bb   dd         bb   dd       bb   dd       bb   dd
Trainning CHWs tct                                                              ttt mt                       m
Materna   Heafh Pkg.                                              IiIiil;iiiiiiiiiIiillif ''lil'&"'"ilt      filiflililil
Training of Trainers. TBAa                                           tttt                        mt            ttt
Fellowships                                                         IH             i       i            ii      l Ii
Implement CCWpackage                                Iiiiiililiii  liififfililiE  IQi&ii*&iiii  liflllilliEl
Family Planning Services                                          iiiiiiiiIII   iililiiWli    iffiilililil
Heath educaton acdvitfies                           Ifililll   i&|E4   iliflilifid    lhillifill   I iiiiii
Urba   e*xperimonts                                 IIIIiitiiii  Fi&ldiifill    ililliflili{   il'"llilli
II. STAFF DEVELOPMENT
Clvii Works
Punjab-Pub. Heaith Schools              moodi      xpppppppqbbe ocococcocco  cocococcocc
PHDC.DHDC buildings & Hostel         xxodi      xpppppppqbba cocococcoc  coccccoccc  occococccocc  occoccccccc
Baioch-Hostels, MCH Centre.             xoodi      xpppppppqbba occcococc   oocococo
PHS Labor Suitec/HT schl ext         )=xiI      xpppppppqbba coccocococ
PHDC, DHOC buildings & Hostel        xxxii      xpppppppqbba cecoccocccc  cocococcooc ococcocc coc  ccocococococ
Federal-NGO PHS/ MCH Centre/Hostel      xxxiI      xpppppppqbba ocococcocco  coccocococo
Funiture                                 xxmmm    pppp  bb             dd            dd
Equipment/medicine                       xxxmmm    pppp bbbbbb         dd            dd
Vehices                                    xxx       mmpppqqbbbb bb   dd         bb   dd       bb   dd       bb   dd
Tech. Assist.                         xxxxqqqiiiil    qqq Ill II  i'i"""        ''"lil i'illili  ilil
Fellowships                                                        I'             in'           'In           I"
Training of trainers                                 qqtttttt     ttt tt m     ttt ttt ttt     ttt ttt ttt
Pre-service training                                qqttttt       ttttttttt    ttttttt        ttt tttm  t    ttt ttt ttt
In-wi training                                       Wmm ttt ttt                               mmm           mmmnMtdtttt t Att t 
Recrufmnt of tudcntbqi wUIn                                       mt mu t      m mt mt         mt mt mt     mt mt In
Evaluatlon                                          11111          ulll ill                  Ill1in         1ll11
Ill. MANAGEMENT & ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Vehicle                                    xxx       mpqqbbbbdd   bb   dd                                    bb   dd
Fellowships                                ill            Ui           Ili           ID
Reserch worksops                                         liii          iUDi          ill            ili
Research monitoring                                      ilil          lill          ii            1iii1
Tech. Assist                                             li"'          'iii          li"           'li"
Supervison training teamc                             tmt          tmmt        tmt            tmm            m
Management inform. Systems                                         iiil          11    Ilil    1Min          1filil
Decentralize managemont                                  fi ililililil           lillillili    ilililililil  iiiiiiiiili
Pro,kct manrkgnt                                     ililii       lifiliilii    fibliiilliflil  liliiiiiii   lUli11illl
Key,
a . Approval                   b . Bidding                 c . Construction            d * Deliivry
i.Impementation                I - Land Acquisldton        m*Maser Ust                 p   Proi. Prep/lid Do.
q  Proqualify/Ready            t . Tralning                x * Planning



- 148 -
Annex 10
Table B
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
Second Family Health Proiect,           Province
(IDA Credit No.
Statement of Prolect Receints and Expenditures
For the Year Ended       Cumulative to
June 30, 199             June 30, 199
A.    Receipts
IDA Credit
Government Funds
Germany (Kfw)
UK (ODA)
TOTAL RECEIPTS
B.    Expenditure
I.    Strengthening Primary Health Services
Investment Costs
Civil Works
Equipment
Furniture
Vehicles
Training
TA
Studies
Health Education Materials
Contraceptives
Subtotal Investment Costs
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries/Allowances
Drugs/Materials/Supplies
Medicines
Nutrition
Operating Costs
Vehiclls
Subtotal Incr. oDeratinf Costs



- 149 -
Table B
P-ge 2 of 2
II.   Staff DeveloDment
Investment Costs
Civil Works
Equipment
Furniture
Vehicles
Training
TA
Health Education Materials
Subtotal Investment Costs
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries/Allowances
Supplies
Operating Costs
Vehicles
Subtotal Incr. Ooerating Costs
III. Management Development
Investment Costs
Equipment
Furniture
Vehicles
Training
TA
Health Education Materials
Subtotal Investment Costs
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries/Allowances
Supplies
Operating Costs
Vehicles
Project Coordination
Subtotal Incr. Operating Costs
TOTAL EXPENDITURE
Note: The federal level accounts would follow a similar format, adjusted for the
different types of expenditure that would be made at the federal level.



- 150 -
Annex IQ
Table C
Page 1 of 2
FORMAT FOR SPECIAL ACCOUNT STATEMENT
SPECIAL ACCOUNT STATENINT
For Year Ending           (mm/dd/yX)
Account No.
Depository Bank
Address
Related loan/credit agreement
Currency
Part A - Account Activity
Beginning balance (mn/dd/yy)                                               xxxxx
Add:
Total amount deposited by World Bank                                 xxxxx
Total amount refunded to cover ineligible expenditures               xxxxx
Deduct:
Total amount withdrawn                                               xxxxx
Total service charges if not included above in amount withdrawn   xxxxx
Ending Balance (n/dd/yy)                                                   xxxxx



- 151 -
A,nnex lO
Table C
Page 2 of 2
Part B - Account Reconciliation
1.  Amount advanced by World Bank                                         xxxxx
2.  Less total amount recovered by World Bank                             xxxxx
3.  Equals present outstanding amount advanced to the Special Account
at fiscal year end (mm/dd/yy)                                         xxxxx
4.   Ending balance of Special Account at fiscal year end (mm/dd/yy)    xxxxx
5.  Plus amounts claimed and not yet credited at fiscal year end
(mm/dd/yy)                                                           xxxxx
Application No.         Amount
- -xxx
------   ~~~,xxxx
6.  Plus amounts withdrawn and not yet claimed                            xxxxx
7.  Plus service charges (if not included in lines 5 and 6 above)         xxxxx
8.  Equals total advance to Special Account accounted for at fiscal
year end (mm/dd/yy)                                                   xxxxx
Notes:
1. Explain any discrepancy between totals appearing on lines 3 and 9
above (e.g., amount due to be refunded to cover ineligible
expenditures paid from the Special Account).
2. Indicate if amounts appearing on Line 6 are eligible for
financing by the World Bank, and provide reasons for not claiming
the expenditures.



- 152 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Proiect Sunervision
1.    IDA's Resident Mission in Pakistan will  monitor program and project
progress throughout, particularly concentrating on the more detailed aspects of
project implementation.
2.    Formal program and project supervision vill be based on regular six-monthly
review missions.
3.    In about March of each year,  there will be a joint review by the
cooperating donors (IDA, German KFW and British ODA) and the federal and
provincial governments as appropriate.  This Annual Review will, inter alia,
assess program and project progress, propose solutions to identified problems,
agree on a work plan for the coming fiscal year, and agree on the recurrent and
development funds required for both the program and project for the coming fiscal
year.
4.    In about September of each year, there will be a Technical Review mission
which will focus mainly on substantive technical issues of project
implementation. Typically these would include issues arising in aroas such as
maternal and child health care, family planning, paramedical staff training, and
management and institutional development. KFW and ODA representatives would join
these missions as necessary.
5.    Before the arrival of each mission in Pakistan, tho Departments of Hoalth
would circulate a six-monthly progress report which would focus on outstanding
issues in addition to being a concise progress rocord. Missions would take up
disbursement and procurement matters as necessary.
6.    During the first supervision mission, a Droiect launch workshoD will be
organized.  Tho workshop will ensure that all officials concerned are fully
familiar with the details of the project and, additionally, will help the
executing agencies to: (a) produce a detailed work plan for the first year of
implementation; (b) better undorstand IDA and co-operating donor procurement,
disbursement and other procedures; and (c) review plans for monitoring and
evaluation.
7.    A mid-term review, carried out in the third year, will evaluate thoroughly
the program and project, assess to vhat extent objectives are being met, identify
changes needed to improve effectiveness, and modify as necessary the project
design and detailed content.
8.    A supervision plan is given bolow.



- 153 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate       Activity            Expected skills         Staff inputs
Date                              required                 (Staff weeks)
(Month/Year)
9/93           Project Launch     Health & Population            10
Mission            Procurement
Disbursement
Implementation
3/94           First Annual       Health & Population             8
Review             Implementation
Health Economics
9/94           Technical          Maternal & Child Health         7
Review             Management
Training
3/95           Second Annual      As 3/94                         8
Review
9/95           Technical          As 9/94                          5
Review
3/96           Mid-term           Health & Population             13
Review &           Implementation
Third Annual       Management
Review             Training
Primary Care
9/96           Technical          As needed                        5
Review
3/97           Fourth Annual      As needed                        7
Review
9/97           Technical          As needed                        5
Review
3/98           Final Review,      As needed                        7
Evaluation &
initiation of
PCR
Total                                             75
N:\PAKPA239\ANWEX11



- 154 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Selected Documents Available on Proiect File
A. Proiect Proposals and Supportini Documents
1. Proposed Balochistan Component for the Second Family Health Project in
association with UNICEF, September 1991;
2. PC-1 (draft), Second Family Health Project (Balochistan), Health
Department, Government of Balochistan, May 1992;
3. PC-1 (draft), Second Family Health Project (Punjab), Health
Department, Government of the Punjab, May 1992;
4. PC-1 (draft) Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT), Strengthening Health
Services, Federal Component of Second Family Health Project - Health
Division, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, May 1992;
5. PC-1 (draft) Public Health School, Islamabad. A Project of Social
Welfare Society, Rawalpindi (NGO). A component of Second Family
Health Project (World Bank). Social Welfare Society, Rawalpindi -
Islamabad, May 1992;
6. PC-1 (draft) Operational Research. A Component of Second Family
Health Care Project, IDA/World Bank - Health Division, Government of
Pakistan, Islamabad, May 1992.
7. Detailed Matrixes for the Strengthening Health Services Component, the
Staff Development Component, and Management and Organizational
Development Component.
B. World Bank Reports
1. Pakistan Population Project, Staff Appraisal Report, April 1983;
2. Pakistan Health Sector Report, September 1983;
3. Pakistan Health and Population Sector Report, June 1988;
4. Pakistan - Rapid Population Growth in Pakistan, Concerns and
Consequences, March 1989;



- 155 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
5.  Pakistan - Women in Pakistan, An Economic and Social Strategy,
December 1989;
6.  Pakistan - A Profile of Poverty, August 1990;
7.  Pakistan - Population Project, Project Completion Report, December
1990;
8.  Pakistan Family Health Project, Staff Appraisal Report, April 1991;
9.  Pakistan - Access of the Poor to Basic Services in Pakistan, January
1992;
10.  Pakistan Health Sector Study, Key Concerns and Solutions, February
1992.
C. Government Reports
1.  National Nutrition Survey 1985-87 - Pakistan National Institute of
Health, 1988;
2.  Evaluation of the Training of Traditional Birth Attendants (Dais) in
Pakistan - Planning and Development Division, 1989;
3.  Health Sector in Pakistan:  A Financing and Expenditure Study -
Ministry of Planning and Development (confidential), 1988;
4.  The State of Population in Pakistan - National Institute of Population
Studies, 1988;
5. PC-1, Child Survival in Primary Health Care, Pakistan, 1989-1994 -
Ministry of Health, 1989;
6.  Basic Nursing Curriculum - Pakistan Nursing Council, 1990.
7.  National Health Policy - Government of Pakistan, Ministry of Health,
Special Education and Social Welfare (Health Division) Islamabad,
January 1990;
8.  Prime Minister's Address to the National Population Conference, July
1991;
9. Population Welfare Programme in Pakistan: the renewed emphasis.
Ministry of Population Welfare, Government of Pakistan, October 1991;
10. Report of the Committee on Health and Nutrition for the Eighth Five
year Plan, Islamabad, February 1992.



- 156 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
11. Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS), Final Results, 1991,
March 1992.
D.  Other Reports
1. Second and Third Health and Population Projects - Asian Development
Bank, 1984 and 1987;
2. Pakistan - Fourth Health and Population Project, Memorandum of
Understanding, Asian Development Bank, June 1992;
3. Health Manpower and Training Plan for Pakistan (unpublished) - ACTS
Inc, sponsored by the Asian Development Bank, 1990;
4. 'Safe Motherhood in South Asia' and other papers - Safe Motherhood
South Asia Conference, Lahore, 1990;
5. Working papers including:
(a) Assessment of Human Resource component of Family Health II;
(b) Use of local PHC facilities in the Punjab;
6. Situation Analysis of Children and Women in Pakistan, UNICEF, 1992;
7. Contraceptive requirements and logistic management needs in Pakistan,
UNFPA, 1992;
8. Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 1990/1991, July 1992.



PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Chart IA: ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Autonomouis Bodies
Pakistan Nursing Council, Islamabed
Pakistan Medical and Dentat Council, Islaimabad
Minister of State                         Cotlege of Physicians and Surgeons, Karachi
(Sociat Welfare)                          Hational Institute of Cardiovascutar Diseases,
Karachi
National Institute of Health, IslawAbod
Board of Homeopathic System, Karachi
F                                             _SBoard of Unani and Ayurvedic System, Lahore
Sociel WeLfare                                Secretery                              Tibb Council, IsLanabad
wing                                    of Heetth                               Pharmacy Councit, IsLamebed
Project Director                        DGC  HeaLth/Addition                                                                                                n
Islalabad Hospital                              Secretary
Couples
Attachment Departments
1. Jinrnah Post-graduate Medical Ctr., Karachi
2. Directorate of Malaria Controt Program
3. Directorate of Tubercutosis Controt Program
4. Directorate of Wortd Food Program
S. Directorate of CentraL Heatth
6. Other Subordinate Offices (e.g., UNICEF
Stores, Karachi; Centrat Health Organization)
Joint Sec'y       Joint  Cec'y        0.D.G./Dy. sec'y                        D.D.G.              C /Dy. S                .D.G./Dy. Sec'       D..G./Drugs        Engineering |
Pubtc Health         Medca           v        t     Basic Health Services            supplies           Contro|ler          Advisor



PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Chart 16: ORGANIZATION OF THE PROVINCIAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT, BALOCHISTAN
|Secretary of 1He tth|
Teaching Hosp./~.d  Colteges                                                   Director C rt Health|                             Dpty Secr.tary                        Dpty Secretary
NS Sandemon Mospitat Qmtta                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Adsinistr tion            Establishment
MS Sarndeean Hospital Ouetta
Principal Bolan Med. College
Project Dir. Bolan Med. Col.
Balochistan Pharmacy Council                                                                                                                         Deputy Director (MCH Services)
NS Helpers Eye Hospital Quetta                                                                                                                                 Deputy Director (PHC)
Govt. Public Analyst Food & Drug Lab                                                                                                                 Deputy Director (Basic Health)
Inspectress Health Services                                                                                                                   Deputy Director (World Food Progrem)
NO/IC (In Charge) Medical Stores Depot                   Deputy Director                                  Deputy Director                                       ADB Project Director
Aduinistration                                 CDC/Pubt~ic Health 
Principal PLAzlic Health Schoot                                                                                                           Provinciat Chief Malaria Controt Program
MS TB Sanatoriu  QOuetta                                 Asat. Acct. Off                            t  E               Statistical                     Assistant Director Nutrition
Officer                Officer
Bldg. A Acct. Sptt                                                                 ...PHDC
Prov. Ngr. EPI/CDD|
| Asst Prov. Hgr |
tta                                                                    40O   KaIat I                                    OHS NaIir Abad              H      r
DivivisioD  i vi|nLeprosy Controt                                                                        Diiso                    Division                 Dvi
DH                                                HOs   Hd.sp                 Lepr  Field                                                       Suptts.    DMO             4
ADHOs       ADHOs                    ~~~~~~~ADMOs1C
*   a3                      E'E                                                                                 i                     El31@
: ..:DHDC:                                                                                        _
DHDC uilt be established In each Division.



PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Chart IC: ORGANIZATION OF THE PROVINCIAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT, PUNJAB
Secretary of 7ealth
Teaching Hospitals           Medicat Coltlges                  Director Generat Health             Additional Secretary        Additional Secretary         Additional Secretary
Administrators/MS               Principats                                                            Administration                   General                    Technical
| Director    |       | Director          |               | Director      |           | Director       |           |Dep. Director            PNDC
|Heelth           Serv.| |                                 BNS/PHC  |   | EPI/CODD  || CDC  |   | Dev.  Eval.  t      0 Nursing   |.:.:
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                  AD    .      AD             AD              |AD        AD            |ADMS;  -
|  Nana                                                                        NatarnaP  S  Evat. C  Epide .& TB    a   Dev.& Evat.   Statistics  TIBB  Nursing |   D       sn
CDC  Progress     StatitcADrg
|  Officer  |  | Officer |                                      | ~~~~~~Officersl  Ofie        fie                            cnoah inspector
DDNS DHr   DNS                               DSM                                  DHS        |HS                    DNS                    DNS
L ahore              Gujranuiata            Rawalpindi                Muttan              |Faisaabad                Sargodha                 G than             Bahawaipur
DHO    Md...pts    DOs MedSutt.    UOs Me.S~ts.  HO    Md.i~ts. DUs   Md.Lpts    0105 Me.S.pts. DHtsed.upt&    DOs    edS                                      ts
* E                      E'-I1E                                                                                            i                     3EE                                         N
:   *                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rt
:DHDC:
:....: :                                                                                                                                                                                   (
* DHDC witt be established in each District.



PAKISTAN
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Chart 2: ORGANIZATION OF THE PROJECT AND ITS RELATIONSHIP TO THE REMAINDER OF THE
PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
Advisory Groups                                            Line Decision Makers                                          Support, Training
Ond Supervision
Program                                                     Secrtary                                                Executive/Project
Steering                                                       of                                                        Directory
Comeaittee                                                    Neatth
****  ***********--***-********-***--******************* ****************************************** ***********
*                                                                                                                        *
Technical                                                 Director General                                               Provincial
Cooi ttees                                                       of                                                        Health
Neslth Services                                            Development Centre
Deputy Directors of |
Priority Programs                                                      
FOR THE FUTURE                                             District Health
Officer         *****-**********                                *
District                                                       w*d                                                   District Health
:   I   Health        **********************************                                                                       Development
:       Board                                                   District Health                                                   Centre
:    :                                        e uppnsen~~~~~~~~t Teaa
Union Council                                              Health F citity                                              Health FaciLity
:        Health      *                                           Medical Officer                                                 Technical
C om_ ittee     .in Charge                                                                                                 Staff
Village        .                                            V   a                                                        Village
Health      *                                           Representatives                                                  Health
Commifttee                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Workers
I/ Also liaises with other Departments, particularly Communications wid works and Industries.
* line      _ ament
* reporting
a *dvisory/technical



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24097
S2'  ^  :o UZBEKISTA                       TA
TURKMENISTAN
AFGHAN ISTAN
NORTH-WEST '7
IAKI STAN                                       FRONTIER /-'
J ~~~~~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN                                                  PROVINCE j'- - ............,-
SECOND  FAMILY HEALTH  PROJECT                                                   App,onon,rf .
ib                     7~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROJECT PROVNCES      <;-s5                               AHI
J                   _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~NAT ONA, ROALOS                    J    
I _NTERNATNALBOUNARSS                                                         199
Cha   
REP OF                                                     riAO H#z                       INDIA
IRAN                                             k                                          IE
f-    /        /    <       \   t\q ~~~~~~~~~wosh, h 
ft-    A  A 3  ~~~~~~~~SIND)H 
_  yd-rab~~~~~~raad 
;   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T. d  ut-h ..-w*?D                         Znd
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, f< 7-h
SEPTEMBER 1 992



