Docuiment oi'
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19249
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GEF GRANT 28644)
April 28, 1999
Enviromiienitally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region                          FILE  COPY
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 26, 1999)
Currency Unit   =    Slovak Koruna/Korully (SK)
ISK         US$0.0238
US$1    =    42.091 SK
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1993         1994         1995          1996         1997         1998
30-77        32.05        29.71         30.65        33.62        36.08
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREES
Metric System
SLOVAK REPUBLIC'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DAPHNE         -  DAPHNE- Center for Applied Ecological Research
EU             -  European Unioni
FD             -  Forest Department
FECBC          -  Foundation for Eastern Carpathians Biodiversity Conservation
GDP            -  Gross Domestic Product
GEF            -  Global Environment Facility
GET            -  Global Environment Trust Fund
GIS            -  Geographic Information System
IBRD           -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MaB            -  Man and the Biosphere Program
MLM            -  Ministry of Lanid Management
MOE            -  Ministry of Environment
MOF            -  Ministry of Finance
NGO            -  Non-governmental organization
PHARE          -  European Union Program in Restructurinig Economies
PMC[J          -  Project Management and Coordination Unit
RAMSAR         -  Convention on Wetlands of Internationial limpoltance Especially as
Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar 197 1)
SEA            -  Slovak Environmental Agency
TANAP          -  Tatras National Park
WWF            -  World Wildlife Fund/World Wide Fund for Nature
Vice President     Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director    Roger Grawe, ECCO7
Sector Director    Kevin Cleaver, ECSSD
Sector Leader      Johln A. Hayward, ECSSD
Team Leader        Andrew Bond, ECSRD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface .................................................i
Evaluation Summary ................................................                                                              iii
PART  I    PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMLENT ..............................................1I
A. Project Origin and Objectives ........................  ..........1......... ............. .......... ......
B. Achievemenit of Objectives ........................                   ....                                             3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................. 9
D. Project Sustainability ..............................                                                                  0
E. Balnk Performtiance .............................1 1
F    Reciplient Perforimance ......................          ........... ..    .. ............. ......                    1 1
G. Assessmen-t of Outcome ..............................................             ....         .......               11
H. Future of This anid Future Operations .................                                                               12
1. Key Lessons Learnied ..................                                                                               12
PART II STATISTICAL TABLES ..................                                                                                    14
Table 1: Summary of Assessment. .1 4
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                                                     .15
Table 3:  Project Timaetable .............                                                        .. 15
Tal]e 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cuumulative Estimated & Actual .15
Table 5         Key Indicators f'or Project Imrplementation .............................. .. ........... ... 16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation.16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .16
'l'able 8a: Project Costs .I
Table 8b: Project Financing.1 8
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     .1 8
'['able 10: Status of Legal Covenants                                                  .19
Table II: Compliance with Operational Maniual Statements .21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .21
Table l3- Bank Resources: Missions .22
Appendix A. Mission's Aide Memoire .....................................                                                         23
Appendix B. Borrower's contribution to the ICR .....................................                                            27
Appendix C. Borrower's comments on ICR .....................................                                                    37
Appendix D. Map ......................................                                                                           38
'l'his  document  has  a  restricted  distribution  anid  may  be  used  by  recipients  onlly  in  the-
performance  of their official duties.   Its  contenits mnay  not otherwise  be  disclosed  without
World Banik authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GEF Grant TF028644)
PREFACE
This is the Implemenitation Completion Report (ICR) f'or the Biodiversity Protection
Project in thle Slovak Republic, for which the GET Grant TF028644 in the amount of SDR
1,700,000 (US$ 2.3 million equivalenit) was approved on Septemlber 16, 1993, and nmade
effective on October 20, 1993.
The grant was closed oni June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1996. The grant was almost fully disbursed (99%). The last disbursemaent took
place on October 6, 1998, at which time a balance of less than US$1,000 was left undisbursed.
The Special Account was fully recovered in November, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Andrew Bond, EASEN, together with Ms. Kerstin Cainby,
Mr. Martin Fodor, ENV, and Dr. Stephen Berwick (Biodiversity Specialist). It was reviewed by
Mr. Johln A. Hayward, Sector l,eader for Natural Resources Management in ECSSD, Mr.
Gottfried Ablasser, Portfolio Manager, ECSSD. Mr. Mahesh Sharma, ENVGC, collated
commelnts on the draft from colleagues in ENVGC. The Project Managellielnt and Coordination
UInit (PMCU) provided information essential for the preparation of the ICR alnd comments on the
ICR whichi are included as appendices.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's Final supervisionl mission in April
1998 and completion mission in November 1998. It is based on materials in the project file and
discussionis with relevant World Bank staff, the Director and staff of the PMCU, officials and
staff of' tle Ministries of Environment, Finance and Lancd Management (Forest Departmelnt),
meetings with NGOs, contractors, consultanits and representatives of the administrationis of each
of the protected areas supported by the project.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GEF Grant TF028644)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Slovak Republic Biodiversity Protection Project, supported by the Global
Environmen-t Facility (GEF), was the second World Bank-GEF biodiversity project in the
Eastern Eur-opean region and one of the first operations implemenited by the World Bank in the
Slovak Republic. Designed as a project for the former Czechoslovakia, it was first identified in
late 1 992 with WWF-Austr-ia and supported a transbotndary nature conservationi program
"Ecological Bricks for the Common House of Europe." In 1993, it was divided into two related
but separate projects, recognizing the establishment of the independenit Czech and Slovak
Republics. The project was approved on September 16, 1993, and declared effective oni October
20, 1993.
Project Objectives and Components
2.    The project objectives were to protect and strengtheln repr-esenitative ecosystem
biodiversity of global significance in the Slovak Republic, in particular- in transboundary areas.
To implemenit these objectives, the following activities were planned:
(a) a Biodiversity Protection Program to initiate a range of activities including the
developmelnt of managemenit techniques for key biotypes (forest, wetlands and alpine
meadows), the development of community support for the reserve systemii and
particularly for the sustainable management of contiguous forest systems adjacent to
the protected areas, specific ex-situ conservation measures where ecosystem
protection and restoration were unlikely to succeed, and biodiversity research and
management;
(b) a Conservation Program to develop revenue generation mcchanisms for the
protected area systemi, to examine the feasibility ol using economic mechanisms to
manage visitation levels, to foster interactions with local commulnities and land
management and uses in adjacent forest systems, and to institute demoinstration
activities to be used as models both nationally and internationally (particularly in the
ecosystems of the transborder areas); and
(c) an Institutional tnfrastructure Improvement Program to provide support for
project management coordination at the national level and at the three selected sites,
for professional development and training, for a small grants program for the
development of environmental NGOs and particularly support for the new Foundation
for Eastern Carpathians Biodiversity Coniservation (FECBC) in the Slovak Republic,
Poland and Ukraine.



- iv -
Implementation Experience and Results
3.     Achievemenl of Objectives  Overall, the project p-oduced satisfactory results ald some
niovel solutions to common regional issues, in particular in the Eastern Carpathian and the
Morava Floodplain project areas. However, in the T'atra National Park, expectations were not
fully met due to institutional weaknesses during implemenltation.
4.     The project leveraged financing from the MacArthur Foundation and a number of
strategic partnerslhips particularly between protected area managers, local communities and
NGOs. However, planined fiunding from the Austrian Eco-Fund was not forthcoming due to
changes in their ftnding program priorities.
5.     Nearly all the work planned was pursued, with lhighly satisfactory results in the
restoration and maniagemiient of meadows at the Morava floodplaini, capacity-building for nature
conservation data management, inter-national cooperation and the resUlts of applied research.
Components such as the assessment of calTying capacity' or planning for sustainable
development did not meet expectationls, but represent valuable exercises with1 lessons learned.
Although more timne is needed to assess linal results, the project lias already aclieved a number
of significant nmilestones: establishment of the Poloniiny National Park, introduction of economic
assessments into conservation planning, partial restoration oF natural mzeanders of the Morava
River, the tni-national Foundation for the Eastern Carpathians Biodiversity Conservation, and
support to partnerships between nature conservation autlhorities and local comnmnities.
Fnhan-ced institutional capacity has also been an important outcome, as it builds tlhe foundation
lor l[tULe activities beyond the life of the project.
6r.   MA1cjor Factors Affecting the Pr oject Being one ol tlhe first Rank operations in Slovakia,
a num-ber of activities and approaches were new to the Recipient, including Bank/GEF
procedures and international practices in biodiversity conservation. In addition, institutionial
arranlgements anid change caused delay and/or were detrimenltal to the realization of the project
objectives. This included the reform and re-organization of the environmiienit sector early in the
project, unresolved issues surrounding respective iesponsibilities of thc Ministry of Environmeicnt
(MOE) and the Ministry of Land Management (MLM) lor forest management in the Protected
Landscape Areas (PLAs), frequent staff changes within the MOE, and weakenilng of the Project
Management and Coordination (PMCU) position within the MOE organizational structure. In
additioni, thie on-going re-privatization of land, forest land in particular, prrevented forest
restoration activities within the Morava Floodplain and attemapts to establish a Central Forest
Nursery at TANAP. Project co-financing from the Austriani lcoFund never mater-ialized antd
caused a re-organization of Project components and buLdgets.
7.     Nonetheless, the commitment of many stalf within the relevant organizationls,
NGOs and the PMCU was able to circumvent these difficulties and significant progress was
acthieved durinig the course of the project. It is this type ol commitment which will carry the
rcsults of tlc Project inlto the future.
( enet ally an al ea's ca tying capacity can he qualitatively desci ibed ais the level ol visitation tooI inSI) without cauSillg
unacceptable degiadation of tie envir-onimenit Refer pat a 2 59 of the otiginal Piojcct Documelit (1993)



Summary of Findings, and Future Operations
8.    Bank cnd Recipieni Performance* Overall Bank and Recipient performance has been
rated as satisfactory.
9.    Future Operations. Unlike Bank experience in Poland, the grant project did not secure an
effective partnerslhip with the forestry sector for a subsequent Bank financed loan. The
Biodiversity Action Plan adopted in August 1998 contains a number of activities to continue
operations initiated under the project. Many activities will continiue, such as the restoration and
managemiienit of the Morava Floodplain meadows (EtJPI-lARE support for thlree years and
agreements with farmers); further restoration of Morava Rivcr ecosystem (commitmenit by water
management author ities in both Slovakia and Austria); waste treatment in Eastern Carpathian
Biosphere Reserve (local communities); cooperative sheep keeping in Vychodnia village (local
people interest in job opportunities and revenue generation); and mionitoring and maniagemenit of
meadows at the Poloniny National Parlk Eastern Carpathians Biosphere Reserve.
10.   The Recipient would be interested in further support thr-ough a GEF Enabling Grant and
hias supported a project idea submitted to the World Bank GEF program from the NGO
DAPI-NE (Center for Applied Ecology), aimed at mappiing of natural and semi-natural meadows
nationwide and their sustainable management. Last year, under the medium-size project window
(climate change local area), the Recipient explored possibilities of financing a project aimed at
the mitigation of climate change on Central European ecosystems.
ICey Lessons Learned
L1.   Based on discussions held during the completion mission and regional workshops, the
key lessons learned from the Recipient and Bank's perspective are:
*  institutional stability is a key condition for project success. The Bank slhould be notified of
institutional changes that the Recipient decides to implemenlt, and their implicationls on the
Project. Also, clear terms of reference for the PMCU are desirable to min-imize outside
negative influences on the PMCU work;
*  in-sitit conservation remains a primary approach to Biodiversity conservation in Slovakia
(supported by ex-situ conservation measures as needed). In changing social and economic
conditions, more players' behavior can now be influenced, as the Project piroved, through
proper incentives. Nature-based tourism is becoming an important source of revenue for
remote communities, and the economic value of'nature areas is begilning to be recognized.
Participation through the formal surveys and consultations during the development of the
Sustainable Development Strategies provided a new approach for reserve managers to
interface and work with local communities, a key lesson to be maintained and indeed
expanded by the protected area managers in the future;
* professional development is a vital step in building lulman capacity, but a needs assessmenit
should occur early in the project in order to better design the component and to provide more
fbcus to these activities to ensure new skills/knowledge are better integrated into design and
implementation. It was also apparent that issues such as budget constraints, understaffing,
etc. constrained the full application or transfer of knowledge obtained in the training process;
*  GJS training should be expanided so that more than onie staff member per site are trained,
wlilch reduces the risk of subsequent loss to the private sector. Biologists (users), who best



- vi -
understand its applications, also need to be given such training as they are more likely to
remain in the job and justify such expenlsive trainling investimlenlts.
involving NGOs during implementation and through the Small Grants Programi were keys to
project successes. Such involvement also made a significant contribution in incr-easing
public awareness of general biodiversity conservation issues;
*  exl-plicit ltargets cand incliccalto-s fOr mneasutring progress against tlhe implementation plans anld
project objectives lhelp managers identify the success, cost-elfectiveness and biasic useftulness
of most components throughout implementation. These, as is nlow common pr-actice in
World Bank projects, need to be established at the outset. Tlowever, long term suLccess or
impact of a project activity relative to its stated goal(s) cannot be fairly assessed at proJect
completion. For example, professional development and training enables the immediate
prosecution of some project tasks such as GIS use, but will not be fully realized for at least
several years when the long-term influence can be better evaluated. Nonetheless, the absence
of indicators can at best be characterized as a short coming of project design. The
Itndamental chaniges that occurred in the country during the implementation of the pro'ject
created both opportunities and constraints. In this context, the projects objectives can be seen
as soniewhat ambitious;
* the initial tim7escale (3 years) m)as overly ambitious, due to a combination of slower than
envisaged progress in implementation and an over optimllistic implementation sclhedule. With
regar d to the latter, a number of causative factors were identified and include: (i) the fact that
this was one of the initial GEF operations; (ii) GEF projects are inherently comprehensive
and tlhus complex; ancd (iii) institutional capacity building or attitudinal shifts take time.
Tlhese early pro jects of the GEF Pilot Phase uniformly riequired longer implemenltation
timeframes (circa 5 years) as witnessed by the value of the extensions which all the regional
projects requested. Nonetheless, an over optimistic implementation sclhedule is a design flaw
and a critical lesson learnied and should be taken into accountt in prepar-ing subsequent
operations. Much of the value and achievement of pro ject objectives were r ealizecl in the
final 18 months. Slower than envisaged progress in implementation was due to the steep
learning curves for new and often advanced concepts (sustainable developmeent), technical
tools (GIS) and approaches, and the PMCU's accession of capability, working style and real
understanding of agreed project activities;
*  the establishment of a successful andpermanent financial mechanism (a trust tiind) to
support biodiversity conservation requires, at the outset, an assessment ol conservation needs,
the production of an agreed funding plain and identified commitments to finance these needs.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
(GEF Grant TF028644)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMF,N'T
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND OBJECTIVES
l. The Slovak Republic Biodiversity Protection Project, supported by the Global Environm-iienit
Facility (GFF), was the second World Bank-GEF biodiversity project in the Fastern European
regioni and onie of'tlhe 1ri-st operations implemenlted by the World Bank in the Slovak Republic
Designed as a project for the ftormer Czechoslovakia, it was first identified in late 1992 and early
1993, but was then divided into two r elated but separate projects for the newly independent
Stovak and Czech Republics. The Slovak Biodiversity Protection Project was approved oln
September 16, 1993, and declared effective on October 20, 1993.
2. A key obJective olftlhe GFE Pilot Phase was to seek inn-ovative and replicable solutions
responsive to global environmllental challenges. The project was one ol'Iive Bank-managed GEF
projects in the region to provide assistance in conserving forest biodiversity to coulitries makilng
the transitioni from centrally planned to market-based economies. The other four projects were in
Poland, Belarus, the Czech Republic anid Ukraine. All five projects were designed to improvc
the managemenit and protection of transboundary ecosystems, and with focus on internlational
collaboration.
3. Given the changes in Central Europe, opportunities existed in 1993 lobr the developmelnt and
implementation of scientific maniagemenit plans for three unique areas: Eastern Carpathians
Landscape Protected Area (LPA), Tatra National Park and the Morava LPA, eaclh colntiguous
with protected reserves in neighboring countries (Ukraine, Poland, Austria and the Czech
Republic). Collectively, the three areas selected contain an interniationally significant diversity
of plant and animal species. They were selected as they: (i) contain tlhree different regionally
inportant representative ecosystems (wetlands, forests and alpine) under threat; and (ii) provide
thie opportunity to directly link with protected areas in other counitries and thieref'ore become
important demonstration areas for the region.
4. A national park in the eastern Carpathians (Poloniny National Park) was to be establislhed
under the project with the passage of new legislation. More importantly, it is one of three MaB
Biosphere Reserves where tri-country management and the establishlment of a tri-ndtional Trust
for transboundary coordination was possible. The Vlovak Tairas Natlionatl Park (TANAP,) is
conltiguous with the Polish Tatraniski National Park, both forested mountain systems with high
visitation, alpine and sub-alpine vegetation and sites of specific biodivcrsity in the mouLntain
mieadlows These meadows are species rich sites for endemic plants and are particularly
iml-portant as an ecotone where they adjoin the forest. The MIorava Flood2plains contain wetlands
of ilnternational importance (RAMSAR) relatively untouched as a result of 50 years of military
border access riestrictions until 1990. Recent ad hoc developmenit and agricultural intrusionis
threatened the area, however, and immediate action was required to protect the wetlands and
isolated remnant floodplain forests.



- 2 -
5  All tlhree areas were theoretically protected by their status as natiolnal park or PLA, but were
being degraded by pollution, overuse by visitors, impacts from adjacent land uses and/or
pressures for short-term production of the protected areas' natural resources to compensate pre-
socialist landowners or provide income to the unemployed. Although tlle tlhreat from air
pollution was expected to diminish with economic reconstruction (within Slovakia and
neighboring countries), tourism pressures were increasing, as were pressures from agriculture
and production forestry development.
Project Objectives
6. The project objectives were to protect and strengthen representative ecosystem biodiversity
of international importanice in the Slovak Republic. Specifically, the project was designed to:
(a) foster systems ol financially sustainable biodiversity protectioll by introducing user
fees, charges for visitors and concessions to manage the areas withiin determined
"carrying capacities;" and to evaluate the role that economic mechanisms miglht play
in keeping visitation to levels within identified carrying capacities;
(b) establish a three country mechanism (Ukraine, Poland and the Slovak Republic) -- the
Foundation for Eastern Carpathians Biodiversity Coonservation -- whose income
would be used to protect the biodiversity in this transbounldary area;
(c) protect three zones of represenltative threatened ecosystems: alpine meadows (Tatras),
wetlands (Morava Floodplain) and mountaini forests (Eastern Carpathlians);
(d) support the activities of three transnational biodiversity protection networks: Eastern
Carpathians Mountain Reserves (Poland, the Slovak Republic and Ukraine); the Iligh
Tatra Reserves (Poland and the Slovak Republic); and the Morava Floodplain forests
and wetlands (Slovak and Czech Republics and Austria); and
(e) develop a conservation program to address priority issues suclh as unplanned forest
privatization within National Park boundaries.
I To implement these objectives, the project planned to involve the following activities:
(a)          a Biodiversity Protection Program to initiate a range of activities
including the development of management techniques for key biotypes (forest,
wetlands and alpine meadows), community support for the reserve system and
particularly for the sustainable managemen-it of contiguous forest systems adjacent
to the protected areas, ex-situ conservation measures where ecosystem protection
and restoration were unlikely to succeed, and biodiversity researclh and
maniagement;
(b)          a Conservation Program to develop revenue meclhanisms for the
protected area system, to analyze potential economic mechanisms to maniagc
visitation levels, to foster interactions witlh local comnmunities and land
managemenit and uses in adjacent forest systems, and to institute demonstration
activities as models ,particularly in the ecosystems in the transborder areas; and
(c)          an Institutional Infrastructure Improvement Program to provide
support for project management coordination at thie national level and in thiree
selected zones, for professional development and training, for an NGO sm11all



- 3 -
grants program, and for the new FECBC in the Slovak Republic, Poland and
Ukraine.
1. Evaluation of Objectives The initially agreed objectives proved to be quite ambitious given
the subsequent fundamiienital changes within the country which created both opportunities but also
some constraints. For example, the changes in adminisLratiQin at the ''atras National Park
resulted in slow implementationi and some difficulty in the introduction of new Iorest
managemtent practices to achieve biodiversity conservation. The objectivcs also did  not
enumerate measturable and verifiable indicators of achievemenit whiclh would have greatly
assisted with devising mid-project adjustments and managenmenit responses to changing
conditions (adaptive management). It slhould be noted that a requirement of subsequent GEF
biodiversity projects (i.e., the Operational Phase) has required the identiFication of monitorable
indicators.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
2. Overall, the project produced satisfactory results, particularly in lighlt of the effects of the
pleriod of'rapid chanige in the newly created Republic at the early stages of'project
implemenitation  This had reswlted not only in a division of an already-designed project, but also
in changes in ministry leaders and staff'who had been involved in project preparation and who
woulcd ultimately be responsible for the imnplementationi of the project. It was a time of on-going
changes in legislative, administrative and institutional arrangemenits, principally the new Nature
Conservation Law of 1995. Most activities were vigorously pursued and fulfilled their
objectives within the project's expected life, while others proceeded more slowly. The project's
closing date was postponed twice, ultimately for 18 months.
3. The project undoubtedly laid the groundwork for future activities -- a knowledge base,
institutionial and human capacity. Certain project activities have only recently been fiiished,
including the sustainable developmelnt strategies (SDS), whichl make it hard to assess the longer
term achievements.
4. Maniy sub-components will most likely contintue and positively at'fect future activities beyond
the life of the project. Amonig the highlights are advances in ilnternational cooperation and
coordination for transboundary conservation (E. Carpathianis Conservatioln Stirategy),
clemonstratioln activities (Water Catchment / Erosion and Morava Floodplain Restoration),
support for non-goveri-nmental, small-scale conservation efforts (NGO Small Grant Program), and
some very original applied research (Tatras Research Station).
5. Less satisfactory componients such as the assessmenit of carrying capacity (mixed results), the
assessmenit and piloting of revenue generating mechlan-isms or planning for sustainable
development did not meet their expectations, but represent valuable exercises with fessons
learnled. These elemen-ts did not fulfill original expectations due to the inherenit complexity of
integrating economic, social and environmenital objectives into regional planning, and the reality
that such approaches were a quan-tutim change in methodology for existing institutions. The lack
of cooperation between the Slovak Ministry or Environiment (MOE) anid Ministry of'Land
Managemenit (MLM), Forest Department (FD) proved detrimental to eff'ective conservation
e'forts in the 'Fatras.
6. Project-wide, international cooperation and coordiniation for trans-boundary conservation that
developed among Slovakia, Poland and Ukraine in managing the protected areas of' tle East
Carpathians MaB was a higlhliglht of the project. The piroject elevated trilateral cooperation liom



-4 -
sporadic personal contact to more formalized institutional arrangements: (i) the FECBC, (ii) a
Conservation Strategy for the Eastern Carpathians (awaiting tri-national government
endorsemen-t) which lhas been presenited as a model in several fora including the recent TUCN
World Congress in Montreal; and (iii) easing of border restrictionis between Ukraine and
Slovakia to facilitate tourism.
7. The general awareness of the importance of biodiversity conservation has increased,
primarily as a result of the project managemeent personn1el being able to influence the government
to officially host the fourth Conference of Parties to the Convention of Biological Diversity in
1 998, thus turning a national and international spotlight on biodiversity and its conservation in
the region.
8  The Biodiversity Protection Program compoinet oftthe lproject is judged to lave lad mixed
results, witll implemen-tation in the Eastern Carpathians and Morava Floodplain successfl'u, but
witllil TANAP lhostage to tensions between the MLM Forest Department and MOE. Tlhe prjcect
f'Lntided the planninig activities for the Eastern Carpathians, restoration ol'f orest and riparian
ecosystems, maanagemen-it alternatives for alpine meadow managemelnt, professional developmenit
and training, and research and monitoriing activities.
9  In the Eastern C(lrpathians, three countries developed thie frameworlk conservation strategy
for the International Biosphere Reserve (not yet under legally binding status). The Slovakia
Poloniny National Park was established in 1997 and a managemenlt plan will be taken to
Governmient by the MOE in 1999. E. Carpathian forestry issues were examined using economic
cost-benefit analysis for the first time; and demonstrations showed the benefits of conservation-
ecology based restoration (200 ha) and soil erosion control techniques in lorest operations.
While resulting recommendations for silviculture are now reinlorced by the Biodiversity
Strategy/Action Plan (BSAP) which has been endorsed and supported by the governllmenit and the
GEF, it is expected that new paradigms of forest management will not be widely accepted unless
finianicial stIpport for the incremental cost or1 regulatory incentives are developed. The miowing of
meadows was clone by NGOs and, while not self-fiinancilng, is expected to continue due to the
high historic, culttural and biodiversity value of this traditional modified landuse practice.
I 0. The Morava Floodplain component was also highly successful (refer Box I), althougLh
maniagemenit options should cover the whole project area, rather than single ecosystems (f'orests,
meadows, lieshwater). Flooding regimes were expanded anid, with the help ol'restoration
activities, floodplain ecosystems are now returning.
I1. Thle pro ject used both vertical (national to local) and horizontal (cross-sectoral and inter-
clisciplinary approaclhes to biological diversity conservationi). An example of the former is the
first effort to solicit local desires in drafting the easternl Carpathians plan and sustain-able
developmen-it alternatives where there is 40% unemploymenit dutring the winter. The latter
resulted in altering the timing of hay meadow mowing to accommodate nesting birds at Morava.
There has been interest on the part of the Austrians, the Slovakian Water Auth(or-ity and
DAPHNE (NGO) to duplicate the water management and meadow restoration activities
elsewhere, and EIJ PFIARE has provided the financing to continue certain activities. DAPHNE
will also be supported through a GEF Medium Grant to extend restoration not only from a
scientific perspective but also by harnessing farmer and local community support to implement
the required maniagement regimes.



- 5 -
Box 1 - MORAVA RIVER FLOODPLAINS
This transbouindary riverine tlood plain near Bratislava and Vienna provides a relict torcst and faim enlvironmelnt
for incieasingly tare native species of a widely modified and noxW ratae Futopean ecosysteni The forests hiave been cut,
water table I eIuceCd, and spring floods interr-uipted Native meadows have been convetledl to cropland Abouit 20% ol the
plant and ainial species are listed as endangered The study site is a remnanit inadveteniltly protected as palt of tie
border conitrol area during the Cold War
Goals of the project wele the development of scientifically iniormed, sustainable floodplain forest Luses andc
restoration, vater regime management, agriculture and tourisIml management in the regionial context Thle aiea was
clhosen for its hiighl biodiversity, the acute threat of uiplaninied developmenit followving the receint political tiansitioni, the
globally vicleslriead nature of such thireats to wetland complexes, and as a compleimenit to the otlher two project areas in
the Tatra andc Eastern Carpathians, whiclh togethier offer a colherent and country-wide conservation initiative for the major
wildianid environlments of the Republic In cooperation with Austriall managers, the annual cycle of flows in Ihe Morava
River and its tributaries was to be restored in three sites leading to restoration of the wetland biotic complexes and
movements between fragments of habitat isolated by land use
The project tirnded the expertise, equipment, civil workcs, and revegetationi to achieve a normative river, as well as
land use planning and the professional development and training needed to secure the restored ecosystems The project
restored 4 of the 17 river oxbows over 19 km of the flood plain thiereby reconnecting thlc t-iver and original floodplain
cnvir-oniments whiich it creates and maintainis This hias led to over 200 days of water in these sites leadinig to meastiurable
restoiation of riparian vegetation, fish and breeding birds Over 250 ha of arable land is being testored to native meadow
outside of the dilke Suclh tools as the GIS developed by the project are used to traini scicntists firom instituItiolns arounld
the country CuLr-ent issues whiicih nieed to be addressed to secure these gains in biodiversity include mitigationi of the
effluent inplut froml a sugar plant in the Czech Republic, revised enginieering- anid expansion ofrthe sites to redtice silt
loads, and clarifying land ownershiip to facilitate dispersion of lro ject initiatives whichi appear successful The Austr-ian
r iver maniagers are using the results of the project work to develop their programn, and the EC is fuLiding monitotinig and
evaluation, also to clocument and leverage tie results in similar environimlenits These connectionis with Atistria, the Czech
Republic, and the European Community underline the regional anid transboundary nature of the Motava flood plain
restoration componenit of-the Slovak Biodiversity Protection Project
12. The project brought to light early in project implementation the importanec of cooperationi
betweeni agencies responsible for the stewardship of the Slovak Republic's forests: the MOE and
ML,M, wlhere there continues to be unresolved negotiations regarding the division of property,
powers over territory and related staff transfer at the TANAP. While the Nature and Landscape
Protection Act No. 287/94 effective since Januar-y 1995 stipulated that all national parks were to
be supervised by the MOE, at that time TANAP was under the jurisdiction of' the MLM, which
promptly changed the status of existing institutional arrangements fiom  priincipally nature
conservation oriented to forest management ones. The situation has already resulted in the
lowering of staff morale at the Research Station of tlhe TANAP and resistance to the sharing of'
equipment provided by the project to the MLM. The purchase of equipment (seed dryers, field
radios), usefLil for commercial forest practice as well as conservation oriented restoration did not
r esult in native forest restoration during the course of the project. Resolution of this tension
would have to comie through national policy clarifying the role of tlle respective institutionis in
forest managemenit operations within National Park boundaries.



- 6 -
13. The project also funded a significant amount of high-quality biological, ecological and
econonmic r esearch and training activities, intended to provide klnowledge and expand the humani
capital base with whicih to construct and implement plans for future conservation and sustainable
use. Howcvcr, it is uiclear i 'all the research conducted had direct relevanice to tie managemenit
planining process. More thani 60 staff participated in high value national and initernational
professional development training programs. In retrospect, the training program could have been
more effective - a needs assessmen1t may have targetecd the appropriate skills and courses needed
and assisted in getting training programs underway earlier in the pro ject. Whether those trained
were able to train others appeared to be dependent on personal commitmenlt as well as
management decisions that would allow trainees to devote staff time to training.
14. Some leakage of trainees occurs because of salary inequities. The GIS effort at TANAP
suffl'er-ed the loss of its staff who could double their salary in the private sector.
15. The Conservation Program included tlhree subcomponents: (i) developmeent of models for
buffer zone management, evaluation of the inventory of endangered species, support for
evaluating the impacts of land restitution; (ii) determining carrying capacities of selected
environmenits and examiniing the use of economic measul-es to maintain the carryinig capacity and
generate revenue for of protected areas managemenit; and (iii) the establishmenit of a permanenit
financing meclhaniism for biodiversity protection activities in the tri-lateral biodiversity protection
pr-ogramn in Eastern Carpathians -- the FECBC.
16. The establishment of the international FECBC achieved significanit international cooperation
ancd collaboration. Tts subsequent operation has provided some valuable lessons. 'Tlhe initial
enidowimlenlt of $0.6 million has yielded a modest $30,000 net per year. This inicome has been
used to support a tri-national NGO small grants program largely based on1 tlhe success of the
small granits program supported under the Slovakia project. The smzall grants have generally
been matched by substantial in-kind contributions from implemen-ting organizations. Start-up and
recurrent costs of the FECBC have proven costly, due to expensive establislmlelnt and Swiss
banking fees, and the administrative burden of conveniniig a 14-person committee with quorum
requirements of nine country representatives (out of 12 country representatives) and either WWF
or thie MacArthLur Foundation present. At the outset, further donations to the capital of the
FECBC were expected, but donors awaited an analysis of conservation needs and a
comprehensive plan (the Strategy) to fund these needs which was expected to be completed very
early in the project. Although tlhe assessment has now been completed and a plan/strategy
produced, the govermments lhave yet to cohesively approach the donor community for furither
capitalization. It is hoped that this initiative will proceed lortlhwitlh.
17. Activities carried out under the bulffer zone ancl carrying capacity subcomponienits appear to
have delivered less significant results than expected, but valuable lessons were gained. Early in
the project, research and pilot projects for identifying carrying capacity and revenue-generation
mechanisms (user fees, etc.) stipulated as a separate sub-componenlts were integrated inlto the
clevelopment of the Sustainable Developmenit Strategies (SDS) lfor each project area. This
combiniation of rrogram elem-ents was welcomed, as the issues of carrying capacity and
sustainable developmenit are intimately related, and the development of revenue mechanisms one
of'the key instruments available to support protected areas in the long-term. However, the
overall development of the SDS programs in all three areas proceeded slowly with mixed results
Imlost likely due to the complexity of the issue, lack of understand[inig of the underlying social
customs, the changinig land ownership context and local/national budget law whiclh prevented the



- 7 -
implemien tationi ol' many internationally implemenited revenue-genierating mechanisms. For
example, charging admission fees to local communities proved difficult due to numerous
entryways to the National Parks anid historical expectations of free access to a public resource.
Lease-licensing agreements, successful in many Western counltries are not applicable since most
commercial tourism activities are conducted on private land within the National Park. Finally,
local budget law currently allocates existing income streams to benefit local commulnities, a
difficult transaction to modify especially in light of currenlt economic difficulties. A few
alternative livelihood pilots were supported with seed money, such as the successful sheep-daiiy
enterprise in the eastern Carpathians. The mission is hesitant to makce a final judgment on the
success of the SDS activities, since the strategies were completed so close to the closing date.
I-lowever, it does wish to recognize the progress o F the work that was completed in the last 1 8
months of the project, the improved communication with local commnunities and their
understan-ding of sustainable development concepts, and thle interest by manly to continue the
work, focussinig on only one region.
I 8. The Institutional and Infrastructure Program sub-comliponenits lhave fu;lfilled their objective,
mostly witlhin the original timeframe of the project and without implementation difficulties. The
subcomponenits funded improvement of the protected area facilities and equipment such as a new
radio communication system, computerization, monitoring and data management including GTS
capabilities. In addition, the activities under this program supported operation of a Joint
Scientific Advisory Committee established under the project for all thlree project areas, latunching
of a Small Grants Programii for environmental NGOs and design and operation of 'the Project
Managemnent and Coordination Unit (PMCU).
19. Particularly successflul was the Environmental NGO Small Grant Program, whiclh awarded,
on a competitive basis, grant funds to a significant number of NGOs. This element represented a
nationally important source of financinig for NGOs during a time of general lack of fundin-g for
the non-government sector and tax laws that did not encourage sponsorships of NGOs. Despite
deficient funding, Slovak NGOs possess competent and Alexible staff, and in many cases employ
qualilied young scientists who had much to off'er in attem-lpting innovative, practical conservation
projects. In supporting the best environmenital NGOs during this time, this program conitibuted
not only to the immllediate objective of biodiversity conlservation but also to a broader
strengtlheninlg of the civil society in Slovakia. It should be noted, however, that a minor
proportion of the small grants were criticized by supervision missions with reslpect to their
technical integrity.
20. Establishment of the Joint Scienitific Advisory Commiiittees proved uselul lor providing
guidance to the project activities and especially for increasing awareness of the project among
the national and internationial scientific and academic community, but may not have lived up to
its potential as an effective system of peer review. Eventually this sub-component evolved into
national, if not local, committees diminishing accession of international state-of-the-art
approaches, tools, and nietworks. The infrastrtucture improvement activities were relatively
straightforward and well implemented. The most complex was the implellmentation of a GIS
wlicih has not yet developed to its fill capacity. In TANAP, the GIS, remote sensing anld a
focussed study tour supported under the project, have produced radical models for chanige in
forest practice to more adequately attain conservation objectives and mitigate the ell'ects of
pollutioni and visitor pressure. Thlese results will take some time to be integrated inlto the
imianagemiienit of TANAP. The future of this GIS facility seems dependent oni the amounlt of time



- 8 -
ttie single techniciani will be permitted to devote to GIS analysis, particularly to non-forestry
r elated research, such as wildlife, and the degree to which other biologists can acquire capability
witli (he teclhnology to interact witlh the analytic results to modify the research. Curren-tly, the
GiTS aplears to be used for scientific and research purposes, and users have not yet made thle leap
tO uIsing it for managerial and planlinig decisions. In Morava, the PLA managemenlt hlas
encouraged students 1rom various institutions to train on and use the equipment which, while
training fuLture researchers and managers, has the side efl'ect of providing the administration with
lree data and analysis. The effective implementation of sLch soplhisticated tools was not fully
appreciated in the project design and greater capacity ancd institutional building is required in the
successf'ul implemen-tation of such a system.
21. Projecl Management was entrusted to a Project Management and Coordination UJnit hIoLused
at the MOE. As needed, additional management officers were appointed in each of the three
proJect areas. The PMCU performed well although the organizational conditions in which it
operated were not always optimal -- in particular with compulter and comnmul mication systems
which were less than satisfactory. The commnitment and capability of'tlhe PMCUtJ staff, together
witlh the experience in international donor procedures of the director, was a principal driving
force. The Slovak PMCU provided assistance to the Czech PMCU, and in 1994 was designated
as the National Biodiversity Secretariat which, while increasing the workload of stafl, ensured
the integration of the project into the national biodiversity process (Natiolnal Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan) and continuity after project completion.
22. Global Benefits Project support for the various studies and plans sLccessfLtWly conlfirmed all
the protected areas' biologicaL value at the genetic, species, association and ecosystem levels and
furthered their protection in numerouis ways. It also had the more diffuse global benefit of
introducing to national levels through the BSAP new paradigms of forest mlaniag,emenit. wlhich
should hlave a positive long-term impact on all the biodiversity contained in Slovak state-owned
(maniaged) Iorests. This project directly contributed to the production of the National
Biodiversity Strategy and associated documents and laws - part of a mosaic of suclh documents
enacted in a cumulative regional commiiitment to ensure the maintenance of'biological diversity
under conditions of sustainable development.
23. Innovation The project demonstrated that for "innovation" to be a mneaningfuil criterion, it
milust be understood as locally innovative while transferring international good practices. Most
aspects of the current project were imnovative for Slovakia, but not for biodiversity conservation
in general. The project was innovative in: (i) the introductioni of transbounLdaly integrated
conservation approaches, and improved collaboration witlh neiglhborinig country counterparts,
exemplified in the first tri-national conservation trust and a tri-national Conservation Strategy;
(ii) experiments and demonstrations in ecologically sound and sustainable land uses, e.g.,
agricultural practices in areas adjacent to protected areas; (iii) support to NGOs via competitive
small grants; (iv) truLly innovative research such as documenitation of bird ancd chamois ecology
emlployinig telemetry; and (v) unique ef'forts at hydrologic restorationi by reopening oxbows
whiclh is now beinig replicated in neighboring countries.
24. Den7onstration Value and Replicabilily  The project did this through oxbow reconstruction
0ow beinig employed in Austria and the Water Authority, and PHARE will fund monitoring of
the activities. Watershed conservation demonstrations showed high benefits, although it mnay not
be replicated until it becomes financially attractive. Also a considerable body of publications,



- 9 -
many of which were peer-reviewed and two workshops, one including prinicipals of adjoining
GEF projects dispersed the results.
25 Incrernenial Costs The project does not provide insiglht illto defining eligible GEF
incremiental costs by today's standards. However, the Slovak Republic could not liave rtinded
such activities onl its own at the time.
26. Influience on Bank Operations Unlike Poland, the project did not secure an ell'ective
partnership with the forestiy sector to implement a Bank financed loan. Although considerable
Banlk ancd government effort was expended in preparing such a project, it was canceled due to: (i)
an inability to achieve a common understanding and agreement on the technical issues to be
addressed with the NGO and the forestry research communlities; and (ii) ultimately the
emergence of higher government priorities. It is disappointing that the project did not leverage a
Baank-financed program to more adequately address biodiversity conservation withini the forestry
sector.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTINC THE PRO.IECT
1. On-going re-privatization of land, forest land in particular, prevenited forest restoration
activities within- the Morava floodplain and attempts to establishi a central lorest nursery.
National regulations had rest-icted major investments oni land with possible ownership claims by
non-state entities, as the Grant Agreement stipulated that Project activities can only be carried
out oni land on whieh the Recipient had long-term rights.
2  Institutional changes caused delays in implementation of parts of the project Major project
activities in Eastern Carpathians, includinig those concerning developmnent of management plans,
were affected by institutional reformll and reorganization within the environmlent sector which
took place in 1993 whlen the Slovak Environmental Agency (SEA) was established and whiclh
subsumed responsibilities and resources of several other governnment agencies. In this process,
much of the capacity for nature conservation of the former Slovak Institute for Nature
Conservation, referred to in the original Project Docuntent, was lost. This miglht lhave contribuLted
to delayed establishlmneent of the Poloniny National Park in East Carpathians - 1997 instead of
199'3 - and delayed the affirmationi of the managemenit plan by the Government.
3. Frequent stafling chalnges at the highest levels of the MOE were anotlher cause of delay in
project implemenitationi, with governmenit commitment fluctuating during periods of staIf
reshuffling The position ol'the PMCU was consistently degraded within the MOFE organizational
structure, from reporting directly to the Deputy Minister to later becoming suborclinated to the
Nature and Landscape Conlservation Department, one ol' three clepartmenits of thie Nature and
Landscape Conservation Section of MOE, and, as oi'May 1, 1998, disappearing from the
Ministry organizational chart altogether.
4. 'The appointment of highly qualified and highly committed prof'essionals with-inl the PMCU
ensurecd a smooth anid successful implementation of the project and consistency of its activities
with the original design and objectives.



- 10-
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
5  Accepting that the true test of sustainability is whether the momentum begun un(ler the
piroject will exist many years later, the following is an early indication of potenitial project
sustainability.
6. The long-ternm biological integrity of the three nationial park/reserve areas selected is
unden-iably better protected than prior to the project, although one cannot say def-initely if it is
adequately protected for perpetuity. This depends on one's time scale, and whether the state of'
biological resources is monitored. The technical equipment and processes acquired or introduced
were all reportedl to be in operation, but will require a) conitinued support in the luture and b)
resolution of outstanding issues in the Tatras.
7  The adminlistrative arrangemenit at TANAP merely masks the current divergence of (lie goals
of Ilorestry and nature conservationi. Project accomplishments such as the identification ol-local
pollutants andl quantifyinig the decline of the chamois seemed to be constrained by the current
administration and cannot currently be translated into policies and management intervenitiolns.
This is not because of a shortfall in capability of those currently manlaging the park, but the
currient reward system. Sales of forest products generate revenues and career enlhancement,
whereas few incentives are seemingly attached to nature conservationi or promotion of alternative
sustainable use.
8  Institulionally, the capacity-building elements of the project were successful and built a solid
ground from wlhich future operationis can be based. Investmen-t in information systems and
lhuman capital is considered an importan-t aspect of institutional capacity-building. The National
Park administration- remains committed to the protection of biological diversity and fragile
ecosystems. 'fhe project did create the financical means to continiue selected activities initiated
under the project. The project has attracted additional funds (PHARE) to continue restoration of
the Morava floodplain meadows and the implementation ol' the management plans, and tile
Eastern C'arpathian forest managemenit and meadow monitorinig will conti nue, the 'ratras
componen-t will depend on1 the ability to implemenit changes in [orest management more focussed
onl conser-vation objectives and like Poland, less reliant on direct revenues deriving from
silvicultural operations purportedly designed to main-tain lorest health and integrity
9. The project was successftil in initiating momentumn to bolster the social sustainability of the
plrogram. Thie project exposed local communities to the value of thle Slovak natural hieritage
thirough public education and awareness programs. Restoration activities, suclh as in Morava,
received high attention from stakeholders (farmers, water management authorities) who now
show comilmitment to sustaining these activities after project completion. The new field station in
Nova Sedlica village is a favorite veniue for local and national events, inicluding training and
education programs. As such it provides the opporttuity for on going dialogues between
protected areas staff and local communiities, assists with conflict resolution and addresses the
need for communities to directly benefit from the protected area itsel :
1 0. As in many governmenit sectors, however, the salaries for stafl' are low. Despite these
problemiis, tlhere has been good continuity of staff and consultants at the local and central level,
which has contributed to maintaininlg the benefits ol'the project's investments in human
resources. State budgets remain constrained. Nonetheless, with some reprioritization within the
responsible agencies budget envelope, project investmenls are expected to be sustainable in the
mid- to long-term.



- 11 -
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
1  Trhe Banik's overall performance was satisfactory and the Recipient appreciates the
innovation and ambition evident in project design. Communlication between the Bank and
Recipielnt was considered initensive and Bank staff proved open to provide advice as needed.
From time to time, delay was observed from the Bank, eritical wheln Banlk approvals were
needed. The Bank provided additional training in project management and Bank procedures,
albeit too late inlto project implementation. Although Bank task managemen-t changed four times,
the Banik's core team remained essentially thie same and the Recipient did not view these chalnges
as detrimental to the overall project.
2. L,ess satisfactory was Bank performance with respect to formal managemelt reporting. Even
thouglh the ICR mission was able to ascertain that aide-memoires were completed for most
missions, these, even wheln mandatory, did not necessarily result in requisite Back to Office
Reports and Form 590 completions.
3  Most Bank missions incluided biodiversity and/or economic specialists who were considered
highly qualiFied, although the Recipient noted that they were not from Europe anid had not
experience with Cenltral EuLropean ecosystems and local management traditions. This may have
contributed to weaker design elements whiich required a solid understanding of'underlying social,
political and budget processes. On the other hanid, the task of introducing GEF calls for
iinovation, and international best practice modifiecl to the Stovak context at the time was
unlikely to hiave been generated by Eastern European specialists alone.
4. 'I'lTe 1CR mission was not in a position to ascertain the influenice of project activities directly
from local communities or people affected by the project. The Bank's appreciation of project
results comes from discussions held with various officials and institutional staff, NGOs and
interlocLutors with whom the mission initeracted during the short mission.
F. RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE
5. The Recipient's performance was satisfactory. Project management experienced a slow start
because of the division of the country, changes in ministry leaders and staff and little experience
(beneficiaries as well as government departments) in dealing with international donors and
understanding of the GEF mission. The commitment of the PMCU director and her staff to the
Project objectives has been a principal driving force. In 1994, the PMCU was designated as
Nationial Biodiversity Secretariat which, while increasing the workload ol' staff, ensures the
integration of the project into the national biodiversity process (BSAP) and contintuity after
project completion. Project area staff were also invaluable for their technical input and engaging
local stakeholders, as were the NGOs, research institutions, universities and othler local entities.
In general, project consultants and contractors were satisi'actory, however in certain cases
researcllers found difficulty in translating academic results into on-ground solutions. While all
main legal covenants were met, at times weakened Governmnent commitimienit was observeci in
relation to conillict resolution, such as in TANAP.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
6  Overall, the project produced satisfactory results and in some regions novel solutions to
common regional issues, in particular in the Eastern Carpathian and the Mor-aiva Floodplain
project areas I-lowever, in the Tatra National Pruk, expectations were not f'ully met due to
institutionial weaknesses during implementationi.



- 12 -
7. Nearly all the work planned was pursued with highly satisfactory results in tlhe restoration
and management of meadows at the Morava floodplain, capacity-building for nature
coniservation data management, international cooperation and the results of applied research.
Weaker or innovative components such as the assessmelnt of carrying capacity or planning for
sustainable development did not meet expectations, but represen-t valuable exercises with lessons
learned. Althouglh more time is needed to assess final results, the project has already achieved a
number of significant milestonies: establishment of the Poloniny National Park, introduction of
economic assessments into conservation planning, partial restorationi of side-arms of'the Morava
Rivcr, the tri-national Foundationi for the Eastern Carpathians Biodiversity Conservationi, support
to partnerships between nature conservation authorities and local communities. Institutional
capacity hias also been an important outcome, as it builds the foundation for future activities
beyond the life of the project.
H. FUTU5RE OF THIS AND F;UTURE OPERATIONS
8 The Biodiversity Action Plan adopted in August 1998 contains a number of'activities to
continue operations initiated under the project, for whiclh some foreign financing will be needed
clue to seriotus constrain-ts on the national budget.
9. Ceertain activities will continue as beneficiaries have a direct int'erest in pursuing them, such
as the restoration and management of the Morava Floodplain meadows (EUPHARE for three
years andc agreements with farmers); further restoration of Morava River ecosystem (commitment
by water malnagement autithorities in both Slovakia anid Austria); waste treatment in Eastern
Carpathian Biosphere Reserve (local commiiunities); cooperative sheep keeping in Vychodna
village (local people interest in job opportunities and revenue genieration); antd monitoring and
mainagement of meadows at the Poloniny National Park/ Eastern Carpathians Biosphere Reserve.
I0. The Recipient would be interested in further suppoIt via a GEF Enabling Granlt and has
supported a project idea submitted to the World Bank GEF program from the NGO DAPI-INE
(Ccnter l'or Applied Ecology), aimed at mapping of natural and semi-natural meadows
nationwide and their sustainable management. Last year, under the medium-size p1roject window
(climate change focal area), the Recipient explored possibilities of Yinancing a project aimed at
the mitigationi of climate change on C'entral European ecosystems.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
11. Based on discussions held during the completion mission and regional workshops, the key
lessons learned from the Recipient and Bank's perspective are:
*  insliitlional stability is a key condition for project success. Th-e Bank should be notified of
institutional changes that the Recipient decides to implenmenit, and thleir implicationis on the
Project. Also, clear terms of'reference for the PMCIJ are desirable to minimize outside
negative inEluences on ttie PMCU work;
*  in-situ conservation remainis a primary approach to Biodiversity coniservation in Slovakia
(supported by ex-situ conservation measures as needed). In changing social and economic
conditions, more players' belhavior can now be influentced, as the Project proved, th-rough
proper incentives. Nature-based tourism is becomin-g an important source of'revenue for
remote communities, and the economic value of1nature areas is beginning to be recognized.
Paiticipation through the lormal surveys and consultations during the developmenelt of the
Sustainable Developmenit Strategies provided a new approach for reserve managers to



- 13-
interface and work with local commLunities, a key lesson to be mailntained and indeed
expanded by the protected area managers in the future;
proflessional development is a vital step in building hiuman capacity, but a needs assessment
should occur early in the project in order to better design the component and to provide more
focus to these activities to ensure new skills/knowledge are better integrated into design and
implementation. It was also apparent that issues such as budget constraints, understaffing,
etc. constrained the lull application or transfer of knowledge obtained in the training process;
*  G/;S training should be expanded so that more than one staff imiember per site are trained
which reduces the risk of subsequent loss to the private sector. Biologists (users), who best
Linder stand its applications, also need to be given such training as they are more likely to
remain in the job and justify such expensive training investmilenlts.
*  involving NGOs during imiplemenltationi and thlrouglh the Small Grants P'rogram were keys to
pro ject successes. Such involvement also made a significant contribution in increasing public
awareness of general biodiversity conselvation issues;
  explicit targets and indicators for measuring progress against the implemenitation plans and
project objectives help managers identify the success, cost-effectiveness and basic usefulness
of most components throughout implementatioln. These, as is nolW com1lmon practice for
World Bank projects, need to be established at the outset. I-lowever, lonlg term success or
impact of a project activity relative to its stated goal(s) cannot be f;airly assessed at project
completion. For example, professional development and training enables the immediate
prosecution of some project tasks such as GIS use, but will not be fully realized for at least
several years when the long-term inlluence can be better evaluated. Nonetheless, the absence
of indicators can at best be characterized as a sholrt coming of project clesign. The
fundamental changes that occurred in the country during the implementationi ol the project
created both opportunities and constraints. ln this context, the projects objectives can be seen
as somewhat ambitious;
-  the initial timescale (3 years) wvas overly ambitious, due to a combinationi of slower than
envisaged progress in implementation and an over optimistic implemenitation schedule. Witlh
r egard to the latter, a nullmber of causative factors were identified and include: (i) the fact that
this was one of the initial GEF operations; (ii) GEF projects are inherenitly comprehensive
and thus complex; and (iii) institutional capacity building or attitudinal shifts take time.
These early projects of the GEF Pilot Phase uniformily required longer implementation
timeframes (circa five years) as witnessed by the value of the extenisionis whiclh all the
regional projects requested. Nonetheless, an over optimistic implementation schedule is a
designi (law and a critical lesson learned and should be taken into account in preparing
subsequent operations. Much of the value and achievement of project objectives were
riealized in the final 18 months. Slower than envisaged progress in implemenitation was due to
the steep learning curves for new and often advanced concepts (sustainable development),
teclhnical tools (GIS) and approaches, and the PMCU's accession of capability, working style
and real understanding of agreed project activities;
the establishment of a successful and permanent finarncital mechanism7 (a Irust fihnd) to
support biodiversity conservation requires, at the outset, an assessment of conservation needs,
the production of anl agreed fLinding plan and identified commitments to Iinance these needs.



- 14-
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
A  Aclhieveiiient of Obiectives 
Macro Policies                                                                            (/)
Sector Policies                                       (1)
Financial Objectives                                 (/)
Institutionlal Development           (V)
Physical Objectives                  (V)
Poverty Reduction                                                                         (v
Geender Issues                                                                            ()
Othel Social Objectives                               (1)
Environimilenital Objectives         (/)
PIublic Sector Manageiient                            ()
Private Sectoi Development (ev
Otlier (specify)
13  Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                   Uncer-tain
C  Bank Petformiance                 Satisfactory               Satisfactory                Deficient
IdenitiFication                                                (v')
Preparation Assistance                                        (v)
Appraisal                                                      (v/)
Supervisionl                                                   (/
Highlly
D   Borrower Performanice             satisfactor               Satisflactory               Deficient
Preparation                                                                               (V
I mptieiietation                     (V')
Covenanit Compliance                 (v')
Opeiation (if applicable)
Highly                                              I-lighly
E  Assessmenit of Outcome            satisfactory     Satisfactoi     Unsatisfactoy      unsatisfactory
(/)



- 15 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loani/crecdit title      Purpose            Year of approval            Stattis
Preceding olverations
I Environimenital     Facilitate Bank        n/a                    Comiipletedi (1991)
Strategy for          assistanicc in
Czechoslovakia        enviroimlental
programmning
Follow viing operations    li/a
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planined          Date Acttial/
Latest Estimate
Identificatioin (Draft project Document)     2/93                2/93
Preparation (pre-Appraisal Final Executive Project  5/93         5/93
Summllary)
Appraisal                                    7/93                7/93
Negotiationis                                9/93                 9/93
lBoarcl Presenitationi                       9/93                9/93
Signing                                      9/93                9/93
Effectiveness                                 10/93               10/93
Pro ject C'ompletion                         6/96                6/98
Granit Closing                                12/96              6/98
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(USS$ thousands)
FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98        FY99
Appraisal estimate                  500     1,500    2,300
Actual                              211     1,022    1,655    1,990   2,189     2,456
Actual as % of estimate             42.2    68.1    72
Date of final disbursemenit   October 6, 1998



- 16 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT 1MPLEMENTATION
No implem entalion indicaloi;' were defined in {he project (docitment
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
No operation indicators were defined in the project document
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
SttIdy and Consultant/Pi-ovider      Purpose as defined at    Completed  Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
I Biotype Mapping withiin the Morava  Assessment of biotypes   NovemberI Key species and associations and
Floodplains                          and appropriate land uses  1995     ecological management responses
Iinstitute of Botaniy of the Slovak  for their maintenance               identified
Academy of Sciences, Stovakia
9 Biological Suivey of the Selected  Initial step in restorationi  August  Piiority feasible sites identified;
Side - Arms of thie Morava Rivet     of water regime          1995       proposed restoration techiniques and
Palacky UJniversity, Faculty of Natural                                  associatcd environmental impacts
Sciences, Czech Republic                                                 assessed
3 Managemilent of Forests witliin the    Identification of cunrent   November  Chaniges in managemenit and
Morava Floodplains                   status, management issues 1995      identification of optimal water iegime
Instittite ol Zoology and Ecosozology of and issues                      for restoiation
the Slovak Academy of Sciences,
Slovakia
4 Managemenit of Meadows within the  Identification of        January    Tecnilical assessment of impacts of
Morava Floodplain                    managemenit and          1996       present piactices ancd opportunities for
Daphne Foundation, Slovakia          sustainable development             implemenitationi in the study area and in
practices                           the region
5    Ex-sitti Piotection  - Lindernia Ex-sitI coniservation of an  June 1998   Priority species p-otected form
proctimbens                         endanger-ed specie.                  techiniques developed as a result of the
Daplne 1Oliindationi, Slovakia                                           study
6 Manageimlent of Meadows at the     Examination of existing   November  Significanit input into Poloniny NP
Easterin Carpatlhianis               piactice and issues for  1995 and   managemilenit plan and conseivation
Institute of Landscape Ecology of the    biodiversity conservationi November  strategy
Slovak Academy of Sciences, Slovakia                          1996
(in two phiases)



- 17-
7 Assessment of Forest Management at Rehabilitation and       September  Proposed silvicultural clhanges in forest
the Eastern Carpatlhians             jestorationi of forest with  1995    management detailed in subsequent
(i)      Joicf Ben1ko, Slovakia     natural forest                       management plan and major
(ii)     Rudolf Midriak, Slovakia   compositions and                     consultation with forest useis,
(iii)    Ctilor Gregu, Slovakia    resolution of competition            researchers and managers.
(iv)     Stefan Korpel, Slovakia    for forest resources.
(v)      Tibor Lukac, Slovakia
8 Waste Management at the Eastern    Identification of the    November  Recommenidatioins included in the
Carpathians                          severity of waste impacts  1996      management plan and conservation
EKOCONSULT, Slovakia                 and resolution of                    strategies
identified issues.
9 Catclelineit Protection at the Eastern   Examin1ation of the nature June 1996   A number of practical field measuies
Carpatlhianis Biosphere Reserve       and solutions with respect          were implemented and demonstiated
Faculty of Ecology and Environmental  to major erosion                    indicating techniques for effective
Sciences of the Technical University in  problems threatening             erosion reduction during silvicultural
Zvolen, Slovakia                      biodiversity conservation           and associated operations in forcst
in the long term                    ecosystems
I ). Managemenit Plan for the Poloniny   Planning process to  June 1998   Plan produced with techinical and
Nationial Park                        achieve conservation of              consultative input - yet to be
(i)        Viliam IKlescht,       the Poloniny National                impleimented Impact to be monitored
Slovakia                   Park                                after project completion
(ii)      Ivan Voloseuk, Slovakia
(iii)      Ladislav Martinsky,
S,lovakia
(iv)       JozefPetricko, Slovakia
II Financial and Economic AnaLyses   Additional study required  lune 1998  Implications for ongoing lorest
of the Forest Managemnent at the Eastern  for carrying capacity/ and      extractive industries included in
Carpathlianis                         sustainable strategies              Sustainable Developmenlt and
Forest Reseaichi Institute, Slovakia  com1ponenits merged mid             Conseivation Strategy; used in
-project                            development of Polininy Nationial Park
management plan
12 Conseivation Strategy for- the    Sustainable development, June 1998   Strategy to be implemented in the
Eastein Carpathialns Biosphere Reserve  to guide and support              futtrie
Maria l-aijnalova, Slovakia          tranlsbouLndary
cooperation in
conservation in E.
Carpathian ecosystem
13 Finiancial and EconomicAnalyses   Model project of         Januiary    Model implemented Long ternm impact
of Sheep Breeding                     sustainable use          1997       to be assessed as part of
Eiduard Michalko, Slovakia                                                implementationi of Conser-vation
Strategy
14 Invcnlory of Seed Souices                                  June 1998
Association of Friends of the Poloniiiy
Mcadows, Slovakia
15 Analyses of the Heavy Metals      Applied research         October    A new metlhodology was provenl to
Conltent in Oiganic Tissues           program1.                1996       provide indications oftthe significance
of ex and in park pollution, significant
Comnieiiius University, Faculty of                                        results for management of various
Natural Sciences, Slovakia                                                wildlife populationis and visitor use of
the park



- 18 -
i 6 Ex-situ Protectioii - Umbra Ickameri                        June 1997
Coni menius University, Slovakia
i7 Analyses of Sedimientary Rocks     Applied research program  December  Research activity providing further
SlovenskAl geol6gia, s. p SpisskA NovA                          1996        understanding ofpark geolotgy Impact
Ves. Slovakia                                                               confinied to increasinig knowledge
I8 Assessment of Carrying Capacity    Identificationi and       May 1997   Report completed and methodologies
Institute of Landscape Ecology of the    determination of                   and recommiienidationis embodied in
Slovak Academy of Sciences, Slovakia  appropriate carrying                  sustainable Development Strategies
capacities (ecological,
tourist and social)
19 Sustainiable Developmenit St-ategies  Definitioni of sustainable  Junle 1998   Key issues affecting sustainability
(i)         Vladimir Ira, Slovakia  development sttategies              identified and inniovative conisiultation
(ii)        MiikulAs Huba.        and identification of                 and consen1sus building achiieved
Slovakia                  approaches for                        Imlpact of implemiienitationi to be
(iii)       Ivan Tirpak, Slovakia  sustainiability within and           assessed (after) the pro ect LtiloughL tlle
(iv)        Daphne FouLidationi,   outside protected areas              implementation ol tlie Nationial
Slovalcia                                                       Biodiveisity Conseivalion Strategy and
(v)         Ivan Wolf, Slovakia                                         Actionl Plan



- 19-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ '000)                    (tUS$ '000)
Item                              Local  Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
I Biodiversity Protection Program  564.0    165.8  729.8       539.9    152 8   672.7
2 Conservation Program          239.5    6305   8700           172 5    772 6    945 1
3. Iinstitution and lnfrastructire    440.3    445.5  885.8    626 5    612 6    1.239 1
Total including conltinigencies  1,370.8  1,298.2 2,6700       13389    1538.0  2,876.9
Appraisal does not include Austriani EcoFund co-finiancing
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCTNG
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estili ates
(US$ millioni)                (US$ millioll)
Itern                             Local  Foreign   Total         Local   For eigil   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
I GET Grant                     0.000    2.3     2 3           1 279    i 167    2 45
2. MacArthlur Foundation        0.010    0.300   0 310         0.000    0 345    0 35
3 Austrian EcoFund              0.000     0.500   0 500        0 000    0 026    0.03
4. Slovak Governlment           0 060    0.000   0 060         0.060    0 060    0 06
Iotal                           0.060    3 110   3 170         1.339     1 538    287
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Not applicable for GEF Projects



- 20 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTI S
Covenant  Piesont    Original    Revised                    l)escr iption otf'Covenant               Commienit
Agreemenit    Sectioni      'I'ype    Status   Fulfillment   rulfirIm                                                               s
Date      ent Date
Giant         3 01(a)      5           C       Contintious              The Recipiet d(leclares its comiiitimenit to objectives of  CP
the pioject as set f'oith in Schedule 2 to this Agicement,
and, to this end, shall (i) caty oul the l'liojeet thiougi
Miiistiy of Envitonmenit with dute diligcnce and
efficiency and ill contoii mity wiith appiopiiate
administiative and finaicial practices and with duic
regaid to ecological and environmental factors, iii)
maintain in ieat terms tihe curirent level ol fiudinig liom
its own resouices lot biodiversity piotection activities in
the lrloject Area, and (iii) shall provide, promptly as
ncdied, the funds, facilities, services and othier resouIces
iequitect for the Proiect
(ralnt        3 01 (h)     1(          C'      C'ouitintiouis   10/95    The Recipient shall make available the equivalent ol       C
$300,000 of the (iiant to the Founidation lor puiposes of'
supporting its activities under terms and conditionis
wihich shall have been appioved b) the t'rustee
rant          3 0)1(c)     5           C'      Continuotis              Without limitation tupon the provisiols of-paragrapi (a)    CP
ol this Sectionl and except as the Recipicint and the
'I'IIIsIce slhall othervwise agree, Ihe Recipient shall carry
Ollt the Project ih accordance with Lhe Implementation
proglam set loi lih in Schedtile 4 of tiis Agrcemeilt
(ii ant       3 02         5           C'      Continuous               'I'he Recipicnit shall establishi a P'MCtI withini the       C
Ministr) ol'Environlmenit, under ter uis of referer1ce
satisfactory to the Tr ustee withi qualified and exper ienced
staff in adequate numbers, tinder the Stipeivisioir of a
Project coordiliator, whose qualificitions and experience
are satisfactory to tthC Trustee
(iant         3 (3         5           C        10/31/93      3/10/94  The Recipient shiall make appropriate adiniiiistlative and   C'P
finanicial ariangements for carryinig out Project activities
at the ''atias Nationial Park
(ilant        3 04         5           C        1()/31/93               'I'hc Recipient siall establishi a loiit Scienitilic Advisoly  C'
Committee in each Biodiversity Zone, tinder terms of
eiference satisfactory to the 'I'lustee, complised of
reniibeis whose qialificationis and experience arc
satisflactory to the tIr ustee, to meet and review on a semi-
annual basis the scientific pr ogress of Pr oject
implementation in the respective Biodiversity Zone
Glanit        3 05         13          C'      ('ontirnrous              I he Recipienit shall ensure titat P'roject activities are  C
carried out onily ont land owned by the Recipient or on
land to whicih the Recipient has rights anider long-teti r
contractual air angernentis consistent with the ol jectives
of the Pr oject
(rant ali     3 06         5           C       Conlilluous              Except as the tr ustee shall otherwise agree, psocurienient  C
ol'goods, works anid consultanits' services  eqrire(l for
tIhe Ploject and tlo he rinance(e out of tIe (iE-T Cl ait shall
he govcined by the provisions of Schedule 3 lo tiis
Agicement
(iiant        4 )1 (a)     I           C'      Coontintious              I he Recipient shall mainitain oi cause to be mriintained   C'
records and accounits adequate to ieflect in accordance
with sound accouLItillg practices the operations, resources
and expeniditutes in respect of tie Project of the
depar tmciits oi agencies of the Recipient e esponsible for
caryinlg out the Plroject or airy part thereol



-21 -
(;lant       4 01 (b)(i)    1        C        Conltinuois            '[elllecipient shall liave the iecoids aid accountLS ciciled  (
to in patagiaph (a) of this Section includinig those Ibi the
Special Account fbi each fiscal yeai audited, in
acCoI dance with appi opi iate auti(iinig pl incipals
consistently applied, by indepcndenl auditoi s acceptable
to lhc 'I'itstee,
(iilanl      4 01(b)(ii)   1         C        Continuous              finnishi to the I ustee as soon as available, but in any  C
case not latet tailna loni months allei the end of each such
yeal, tilc Cpoit of stieh audit by said ati(litols, ol sucI
scope and in sticih detail as the Ti ustLee shall liave
icasonably icquesLed, and
(ilant       4 0(I(h)(iii)   I       C        Contintiots             tii nish to the Tiustee suci oilei inioimatiol concetiiing  C
said iecoids and accounts and the audit thieieofas the
Tiistce slhall lioni time to tinme ieasonably icquest
(iianit      4 0 1 (c)(i)    I       C        Continuous              Fot all expenditutes withi tespect to which withdiawals   C
lIoin the GET (ijant Account weel madce on the basis of
statements of expentlituic the Recipient shall maintain ot
cause to be maintained, in accom dance with patagiaphi (a)
of this Section, mecoids and accounts ieflecting suchI
expend(lituies,
(Gi ant      4 01 (c)(ii)   i        C        Continuotis             ictain, until at lcast one yeni aftei the TiLustee las    C
ICeivCtd the audit ICpOlt foil the fiscal ycai in which the
last withdiawa lioim the (GET gian( Accounit was made,
alt iecoids (contiacts, oldeis, invoices, hills, Icceipts and
othem documentls) evidencing such expendituies,
ijant       4 01(c)(iii)   I        C        C'ontinuous             enable the l')ustee's iepiesentatives to examnie sucih    C
iecoi ds, and
(iant        4 )1 (c)(iv)   I        C        Colitinluous            etsiise Ilita such iccoids and accounts aie included in the  C
annual audit iefrimed to in pamagiaph (h) of this section
and that the iepoit of such audit contains a sepai ate
opinion by said audiltoms as to whethei the statemenits ol
expendituic submitted duting stich l1iscal yeat, togethet
with the pi(oceduies and inteiiial conilols involved in
theimi piepaiation. can be iclicd upon1 to suppolt thc
I clateil witldi awals
Covenant types                                                                            P leseni Status
I - Accounts/audits                         8   Indigenous people                         C = covenant complied with
2 = linancial peifoimance/teveniue          9 = Moniitoiing, ieview, and iepoiting        CD = complied withi aflei delay
geneiation fiom beneficiaties            It) =Pioject implementation not covetcd by    C'P  complied with pai tially
3 = Flow and( utilizationi ofpioject funds     categoiies 1-9                             NC = not complied witl
4   Counteipalt ftundinig                    I t = Sectoial o0 cioss-sectomat budgetaLy o0
5 - Management aspects ot the pioject o0        other Iesou.ce allocation
executing agency                         12 = Sectoial o1 cioss-sectoial policy/
6 = I nviionimental covenants                  iegulatoiy/institutionial action
7 = Itvoluntaty tesettlement                 13 = Otlhe
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No lack of compliance was observedl



- 22 -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAIF INPUTS
Planned               Actual
Stage of project cycle   Weeks      US$    Weeks         US$
('000)               ('000)
Preparation tiroughi     n/a         n/a      8         22 8
Appraisal
Negotiations through Grant n/a       n/a      7 1       20 7
Signing
Supervision FY 94 - 95   n/a         n/a      8        22 8
Supervision FY 96        14 6        45 9     15 4     41 9
Supervision FY 97        13 3        42 5     11 2      34 8
Supervision FY 98        9.5         24.8     8 3       14.8
Completion FY 98 - 99                         8 8      22 6
Total
NB: Bank Resources planniniig only started in FY 96



- 23 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Perforniance Rating       Types of
Stage of project cycle   Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implemll         Developm    Problems;3
Year   Persons  Field                         status       objectives
Thlrouglh appraisal
Pre-appraisal               3/22-26      3       5           E, B
1993
Appraisal thlrough Graiit
signing
Post-appraisal              7/29-8/1     3       3         E, B, B
1993
Supervision
Supervision I                11/3-5,     3       4          E, B, B            S             S
11/14-16
1993
Supervision 2                3/6-9       2                   E, B              S             S
1994
JIS tecchnical assistaiice  5/26-27      2       1            C
1994
Supervision 3                6/9-13      4                B, B, B, B
1994
Supervisioni 3 follow-up    6/20-2   1  I        2            F
1994
Supervisioni 4               1014-6      1       2            B
1994
Supervision 5               1/30-2/2     1       3            B                                          F,T
1995
Supervision 6 (midterm      12/13-21     5       6      E/B, B, B, B, B        S             S
Ieview)                       1995
Supervision 7                9/9-15      3       5           B, B              S             S
1996
Supervision 8               2/10-15      3                E/B, B, B            S             S
1997
Supelvisioll 9 (Milculov   9/30-10/1    I                    E/B               S             S
\Votl slhop)                  1997
SupeLvisioll 10              2/8-12      1       5            B                S             S
1998
Supervision 11              4/20-24      1       2           E/B               S             S
1998
Completion                  11/22-29    3        5         B,B,E/B             S             S
1998
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills  2 - Key to Pei loirnace Ratings       3 - Key to Types ol Ploblems
E, economist, F, foiestiy/biodiveisity  IIS, liighly satisfactoty, S, satislactmiy  F, linancial, M, management,T, technical
specialist, C, compputei specialist



- 24 -                        APPENDIX A
APPENDIX A: lCR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
I.    A World Bank missioll consisting of Messrs. Andrew Bond, Enviroinmenital Specialist
(ENV), Stephen Berwick (Consultant) and Mme. Kerstin Canby, Environmenit Specialist (ENV),
visited the Slovak Republic from November 22-29, 1998, to cariy out the Implemenltation
Completion Mission for the GEF Biodiversity Protection Project. The mission also supervised
the GEF financed Enabling Activities for the Preparation of the National Biodiversity
Conservation Strategy and Action Plan, and the National Report for the Congress of Parties
Meeting hleld earlier in the year. The mission held discussions in Bratislava and at the High
Tatras National Park to discuss project achievements and the operational plan witlh all the
imnplementing agencies, many of the involved scientific institutions involved witlh the project and
with a cross section of thle NGO and local communities affected by the project.
2.    The miission expresses its' appreciation to the Project Management Coordinating Unit
(PMCU) in Bratislava, the administrations of the Tatras National Park, Morava and Carpathians
Protected Laandscape Areas and the Minister and staff of the Ministry of Environm1enit for their
considerable cooperation and courtesies extended to it and all previous mnissions during the
pirojects' implementation.
3.    The GEF Protection Project closed on Jume 30, 1998. The GEF Enablinig Activities are
83% disbursed.
4.    The objectives of the mission were: (i) to discuss with the government the contributiolns
to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by them; (ii) to complete the
Implemenitationi Completion Report (ICR) for the Slovak Biodiversity Conservation Project; and
(iii) to supervise the GEF Enabling Activities Grant.
5     This Aicle Memoire which was discussed with the Minister of Environment, Mr Lazlo
Mikl6s before departure from the Slovak Republic, r ecords the views of the Recipient and the
Bank on the implemelntatioln of the GEF Protection Project and assesses its' sustainability during
the operational phase. The Mission's findings are subiect to confirmation- by World Banik
management.
GEF Biodiversity Project Implementation
6.    Project Closing and Disbursements. The last disbursement took place on October 6,
1998, at which time a balance of SDR 990.9 was left undisbursed. The final project audit for
1998 expenditures will be carried oult by Audit Slovakia (an independenit Slovak auditor) and
will be made available to the Bank by December 31, 1998.
7     Formulating and Attaining Objectives. The project objectives were to protect and
strengthen representative ecosystem biodiversity of global significanice in the Slovak Republic,
in paiticular in transboundary areas. To implement thlese objectives, the project planned to
involve the following activities:



- 25 -                         APPENDIX A
(a)    a Biodiversity Protection Program to initiate a range of activities including the
development of management techniques for key biotypes (forest, wetlands and alpine
meadows), the development of commi-iuLnity support for the reserve system and particularly
for the sustainable management of contiguous forest systems adjacent to the protected
areas, specific ex-situ conservationn measures where ecosystemn protection and restoration
were unlikely to succeed, and biodiversity research and maanagem11ent;
(b)   a Conservation Program to develop revenue generation mechanisms for the
protected area system, to examine the feasibility of using economic mechanisms to
manage visitation- levels, to foster interactions with local communities and land
managemnenit and uses in adjacent forest systems, and to institute demonstrationi activities
to be used as models both nationally and internationally (particularly in the ecosystems in
the transborder areas); and
(c)   an Institutional Infrastructure Improve7nent ProgrCZamz to provide support for
project maniagement coordination at the national level and at the three selected zonies, for
professional developmzen-t and training, lor a small grants program for the developmenit of
tle Slovak Republic environmental NGOs and particularly support fbr the new
l'oundation for Eastern Carpathian Biodiversity Protection (FECBC) in the Slovak
Republic, Poland and Ukrainie.
8.    The initially agreed objectives were quite broad, although the activities supported by the
project were quite specific. They did not enumerate objective, measurable and verifiable
indicators of achievement, causing difficulty in assessing the success of some project elements
and in many respects should more appropriately be considered goals.
9.    Achievement of Objectives. Overall, the project produced satisl'actory results and in
some regionis novel solutions to comminon regional issues, in particular in the Eastern Carpathian
and the Morava Floodplain project areas. However, in the High Tatras National Park,
expectations were not fully met due to institutional weaknesses during inmplemenetation.
10    Nearly all the work planned was pursued with highly satisfactory r esults in the restoration
and managemenit of meadows at the Morava floodplain, capacity-building for nature
conservationi data managenment, international cooperation and the results of applied research.
Weaker or innovative components such as the assessment of cariying capacity or planining ftor
sustainable developmenit did not meet expectations, but represenit valuable exercises with lessons
learned. Although more time is needed to assess final results, the project has already achieved a
niumber of significanit milestones: establislment of the Poloniny Nationial Park, inltroduction of
econ1oImiic assessments inlto conservatioln planning, partial restoration ol' side-arms of the Morava
River, and the tri-national FoLndation for Eastern Carpathians Biodiversity Conservation,
support to partnerships between natur-e conservation authorities and local commiunities.
Institutional capacity has also been an imiportant outcomlie, as it builds the foundation for future
activities beyonid the life of the project.
IH.   Project Sustainability. The Biodiversity Action Plan adopted in August 1998 containis a
niunmber of activities to continue operations initiated under the project. Certain activities will
continue, such as the restoration and maniagement of the Morava Floodplain meadows



- 26 -                         APPENDIX A
(EUPHARE for three years and agreements with- farmers); flurther restoration of Morava River
ecosystem (commitment by water management authorities in both Slovakia anid Austria); waste
separation in Eastern Carpathiani Biosplhere Reserve (local communities); cooperative sheep
keeping in Vychodna village (local people interest in job opportunities and reveniue generation);
and moniitorinig and maniagemenit of meadows at the Poloniny National Park/ Eastern Carpathians
Biosphere Reserve.
12.   Contribution of the Recipient to the ICR. A detailed report was supplied by the
PMCU to the mission as the contribution to the ICR  This material was usedl extensively by the
mission and was very useful.
13.   Key Lessons Learned. Based on discussions held during the completion mission and
regional workshops, the key lessons learned from the Recipient and Bank's perspective are:
*  institutional stability is a key condition for project success. The Bank slhould be notified of'
institutional changes wlhich the Recipient decides to implemelnt, and their implications on the
Project. Also, clear terms of referenice for the PMCU are desirable to minimize outside
negative influences on the PMCU work;
*  in-sit21 conservcation remains a primary approach to Biodiversity conservation in Slovakia
(supported by ex-sil2r conservation m-leasures as needed). In clhanging social and economic
coniditions, more players' behavior can 0now be influenced, as the Project proved, tllrough
proper incentives. Nature-based tourism is becoming an importanit source of revenue for
remote com-munities, and the economic value of natur-e areas is beginning to be recognized.
Participation tlhrough the formal surveys and consuiltationis during the development of tlhe
Sustainable Development Strategies provided a new approach for reserve malnagers to
interface and work with local communities, a key lesson to be maintained and indeed
expanded by the protected area manager-s in the future;
* professional development is a vital step in building llumaln calpacity, but a needs assessment
should occur early in tie proJect in order to better desigin  the componenlt and to providle more
f'ocus to these activities to ensure new skills/knowledge are better integrated into clesign ancd
implementation. It was also apparenlt that issues such as budget constraints, under-staffjing,
etc. constrained the full application or transfer of kunowledge obtained in the training process;
*  G,S training should be expanded so that more than one staff member per site are trainied
which reduces the risk of subsequent loss to the plrivate sector. Biologists (users), wlho blest
understand its applications, also need to be given such training as they are more likely to
remain in the job and justify such expensive traininig investmeents.
*  involiving N(JOs durin-g implementationi and through the Small Grants Program were keys to
project successes. Such involvement also made a signilicant contribution in increasing
public awareness of general biodiversity conservation issues;
*  explicit targets and indicators for measuring progress against thie implemenitation plans an(d
project objectives help managers identify the success, cost-effectiveness and basic usetihlness
of most componenits throughout implemenitation. Thlese, as is n1ow common practice, nieed lo
lhe established at the outset. However, long term-l success or impact of a project activity



- 27 -                         APPENDIX A
relative to its stated goal(s) cannot be fairly assessed at project completion. For example,
prol essionial developnment and training enables the immediate prosecution of some project
tasks such as GIS use, but will not be fully realized for at least several years when the long-
term influence call be better evaluated. Nonetlheless, the absence of indicators can at best be
characterized as a short coming of project designi. The fundamelntal changes that occurred in
the country during the implementationi of the project created both opportunities and
constraints. In this context, the projects objectives can be seen as somewhat ambitious;
*  the initial timescale (3 years) vwas overly ambitio us, due to a combination of slower than
envisaged priogress in implementation and an over optimistic implemenitationi scheduLle. With
regard to the latter, a number of causative factors were identified and include: (i) tlhe fact that
this was one of the initial GEF operations, (ii) GEF pro jects are inlherently comprehensive
and tlhus comnplex; and, (iii) institutional capacity building or attitudinal shifts take time.
These early projects of the GEF Pilot Phase uniformly required lonlger implementation
timefiramnes (circa 5 years) as witlnessed by the value of the extensions which all the regionial
projects requested. Nonetheless, an over optimistic implementation schedule is a design flaw
and a critical lesson learned, and should be taken inito accouLnit in preparing subbsequent
operations. Much of the value and acllievement of objectives were realized in the final 18
moniths of the Slovak Project. Slower than envisaged progress in implemllentation was due to
the steep learnling curves for new and often advanced concepts (sustainable development),
tecilnical tools (GIS) and approaches, and the PMCU's accession of capability, working style
and real understandinig of agreed project activities;
-  the esltablishment of a ,sccesysfiJl and pernmanenl linancical m7ec hani,vm (ta Inl sl ,find) to
support biodiversity conservation requires, at the outset, an assessment ol conservationi needs,
the production of an agreed funding plani and identified commitmiienits to linan-ce these nieeds.
GElF Enabling Activities
1 4.   Tn general, the Enabling Activities have proceeded very well. The PMCU provided a
detailed report to the mission (Progress Report No. 2 June 1997 to November 1998) which
indicates that the National Biodiversity Strategy has beeln published and the Biodiversity Action
Plan was endorsed through Governmenit resolution No. 515 of August 4, 1998. The National
Report has also been endorsed by the government and was officially submitted to the CBD
Secretariat during October 1998.
15.   The mission endorsed the proposal to use the remzaininig Enabling Activity funds for the
developmen-t of two sets of indicators, which will enable the governmenlt to measure: (i) thle
status of implementation of the governments' obligations with respect to the Colnven1tion on
Biological Diversity; and (ii) the status of biodiversity and the effectiveness or otherwise of
mcasures implemen-ited as part of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Actioni Plani. As such, a
joint Czech and Slovak workshop on indicators is proposed for early January 1999. Thle deadline
to develop appropriate indicators, specified in resolution #1 5, is February 28, 1999, the expected
completion date for the Enabling Activities.



- 28 -                           APPENDIX B
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
PREFACE
1. This report represents the contribution of the Slovak government to the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Biodiversity Protection Project. It was developed to relate the
experiences of the Slovak government and counterparts and in response to the formal World
Bank communication dated March 9, 1998. As requested the report includes: (a) an assessment
of' tle project objectives, design, implemenitation, and operation experience; (b) an evaluation of
the Slovak performance during the evolution and implemen-tation of the project, witlh special
emphasis on lessons learmed that may be relevant in the future; and (c) an evaltuation of the
performance of the Banlk durinig the evolution anid im-lpletemenitation oF the pro ject, in-cludilng the
effectiveness of the relationship between the Slovak Governiment (Ministry of Environmient) and
the Bank, with special empihasis on lessons learned.
PROJECT CONTEXT AND OBJECTiVES
2. 'The Slovak Biodiversity Protection Project supported by the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) was prepared in the period of geopolitical changes takinig place in the Cenlral and Eastern
Europe. Former socialist (communist) systems were collapsing and the respective countries of
the region entered transformiation to development of new economies rulecd by prinlciples of'
market.
3. fn 1989, important co-operative efforts were greatly stimulated by the Initiative "Ecological
Bricks of Our Common House of Europe" wlhich was co-ordinated by the WWF Austria and
supported by a large group of European NGOs. The Initiative identified 24 internationally
significanlt areas in Europe needing conservation attention to address the tlhreats generated by the
said geopolitical changes as well as to mitigate at those areas, damage caused to natural
environmiielnt by pollution and/or inappropriate land management/tuse practices in the past.
4 In Slovakia, forests cover 1,930,000 ha, which represents approx. 41% ofithe country's total
area (ploughed land represents 49%, buildinig areas 5%, waters 2% and othlers 3%). Of'tllese
lorests, 40 to 45% are semi-natural, but what sets themii apart is that they have a compositioni of'
species that only slightly differs from the orig,inal forests Tlis is very special compared to most
of the countries of central and western Europe. 'Fhere are also over 70 fragments of natural and
virgin forests with a total area of 20,000 ha that have been preserved.
5. Wetlands and inland water ecosystems, the occurrence ol'which is undermiiied mnainly by the
accessibility of water, can be found from the lowlands to the alpine zone. They feature a wide
ranige of'types including, inter alia, willow-poplar forests, oak-elmT-ash forests, riparian alder
wood, ecosystems of stagnant and slow flowing water, tall-lherb floodplains, bogs and fens and
mountain lakes.
6. Meadows, except for alpine and floodplain meadows, are secondary - humtllan activities
formlled - ecosystems. However, if appropriately managed some mountain meadows are among
the most species diverse European ecosystems.



- 29 -                          APPENDIX B
7. Alpine and sub-alpine ecosystems encompasses a varied palette of biotypes including alpine
meadows, rocky walls and cracks, snow beds and dwarfed pinie growths. 'T'hey were less affected
by humaln activities in the past because of their inaccessibility and harsh climatic conditions.
8. In 1993, biodiversity lhad becn recognised as one of the five priorities of the State
Environmental Policy. In 1997, Slovakia beconme one of the 1irst counitiies within the region,
whiich- lhad National Biodiversity Strategy completed and approved by the Governmlelnt and
subsequenitly endorsed by the Parliamien-t.
9. Th-e protection of biodiversity in-situ has been traditionally connected withi the protection of'
nature. In Slovakia, the protection of natLre and creation of conditions for the legal existence of
protected territories dates back to the time of feudal ownership. In 1993, whaen the GEF Project
started to be implemented, the 1955 State Protection of Nature Act was still in force. However, a
new legal Framework to ensure more effective protection of biodiversity in changing social-
economic conditions was needed. In 1994, the National Coun-cil of the Slovak Repulblic passed
thIe Act No 287 on1 Nature and Landscape Protection, which became effective from1 January 1,
1 995. The new Act has introduced a comprelhensive concept for the protection of nature based
on the territorial system of ecological stability and the classification of the entire territory to five
levels of protection and utilisation. Besides the clearly determined territorial protection, the new
Act on Nature and Landscape Protection also defines the principal rights and duties in respect of
general protection of nature and landscape, of protected flora and fauna species and of protected
minierals and fossils. It also defines sanctionis for the violation of the conditions for the
protection ol' nature and landscape, and the competencies of natuLre protection authorities.
1 0. As of NMay 3 1, 1998, there were 7 national parks, 16 protected lanclscape areas, 347 natutre
reserves, 229 national nature reserves, 214 nature monumenlts, 45 national nature molonuments and
174 protected sites. The total area protected in Slovakia, includilng buffer zones, cover s miiore
than 22% ol'the country territory.
1 1. Despite the long tradition in nature protection and some positive achievementts in this field,
many negative developmen-ts had been observed with regard to biodiversity. Gradual
deforestation, intensive agriculture, development of settlements, draininig oi' wetlands, regulation
ol' rivers, and pollution of the water and air have resulted in changes in distribution of ecosystems
ancl the extinction of several species of plants and animals, while others have become rare or
endangered.
12. Lacking domnestic funds and not wanting to borr-ow at market initerest rates, thie Government
tur-ned to GEF to help protect its biodiversity. TFhree areas were selected folr the direct sulpport
under the Project. 'I'lTe Tatra National Park, which has been a flag park not only of the country
but of the wlhole Carpathians Arch as well, has been suffering from severe pollution which
induiced declinie of forests and also affected populations of the fauna species, as well as from
`ill"-controlled development of tourism. Morava Floodplain with its wetland ecosystems both
not well invenltoried in the past and yet well preserved thanks to the "iron curtain" which had
prevenited public access and restricted the economic use of'the area have become endanigered
from potential recreational and other economic use. Last but not least - Easternl Carpathians
represents withini Slovakia a uniique area withi remnants of beechi and l-r-and-beech primeval
f'orests and specific mountain meadows - "poloniny" featuring both Eastern and Western
Carpathians species. Both ecosystems required rapid assessment and urgent actions to prevent
biodiversity loss from inappropriate management practices.



-30 -                          APPENDIX B
3. IBesides the above menltioned problems issues of'privatisation anid/or re-privatisationi lhad to
be addressed which put biological resources including those in pr-otected areas to risk IFroM
pressure for rapid short term production to compensate losses to owners from the wlhole socialist
history ol' tle country, when they were niot allowed to use tlhey riesources, anid to bring incomiie to
tamilies facing unlemploymiO enlt.
1 4 All the three areas were not only identified as belonging to the mnost important Slovak's
biological resources, but were also internationally recognised (Morava Floodplain was a Ranm-sar
site, Tatras and Eastern Carpathians were IUNESCO MaB biosplhere reselves) and thus
appropriate for GEF assistance.
15. The preparation of the GEF Biodiversity Protection Project started in co-operation with the
Environlmental Committee of the former Czech and Slovak Federative Republic in 1991, witlh
simultaneous involvemenit of the respective republic's ministries of environment anid agriculture.
Coompletion of the pre-implemenitation period was delayed by splittilng ol' the country and
lormation ol'the two indepen-dent states, the Czech and Slovak Republics, in 1993. Final stages
of'preparation of the Slovak Biodiversity Protection Project were handled by the nalional
Ministries of the Environmeent and Agriculture.
16. Thle Pr'oject was complemented by the GEF financed Poland (FY 92),Ukrainian (FY 93) and
the Czech Republic Biodiversity Protection projects (FY 93) and joint Poland-Slovak-Ukrainian-
WWF and Mac Arthur Foundation initiative to establish an international Foundationi tfor the
Eastern Carpathians Biodiversity Protectioni. It was the lirst World Bank pro'ect to be prepared
and implemented with the MoE, and so it required botlh parties to become acquainted with each
otlher's objectives and business style.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
l. The Project was to realise Pilot Phase GEF objectives, namely global environmnental benefits,
innovation, demlon-stration value and replicability, contribution to the GEF portfolio (that is,
testing of particular methodologies or protection of particular biodiversity not covered elsewhere
in the GEF portfolio) and sustainability. On a national level, the Project also aimed to develop
inistitutional and personal capacities which would ensure continuation ol'the relevant activities
iniitiated tinder the Project.
2  The Project was designed in a series of workshops in the Slovak Reputlic with staff of the
pro ject areas and Slovaak Institute for Nature Protection, scientists an(d the Slovak Ministry of thle
Environment Department of Nature and Landscape Protection. To maeet the objectives, the
project had a complicated design and its full implementation required longer period than was
planned lor on the date of'signing the Grant Agreemenit (closing date was extended twice, totally
by I m lnontlhs).
MAJOR FACTIORS AFFEC CTING( THIE PROJECT
3. As one of the first Bank operations during the phase of transformation 'rom planned to
market econiomy in Slovakia and its first environmiental operation, the Project came in thie first
year of the country's existence following the separation of' tle former Czech and Slovak
Federative RepLiblic, e.g., in a period which was marked with onl-goilig changes in legislative,
administrative and institutional arrangemiients. Some of tlhemn biact also inmpacted the lPro'ject
implemen tationi.



- 31-                          APPENDIX B
4. Paradoxically, the major influence on the Project originated from enltering into force of the
Nature and Landscape Protection Act No. 287/94 on January 1, 1995, The new law says that all
niational parks in Slovakia are supervised by the Ministr-y of the Environmen-et and that MoE
establishes their administration offices. At that time, it was not the case for both Tatra and
Pieniny National Parks (their were supervised by the MoA and administered through joined
administrationi office - the Administration of the Tatra National Park). The said provision found
the MoE not ready to take speedy and effective actions. I-lowever, MoA promptly changed the
statuses and the name of the former Tatra National Park Administration and on its basis
established the State Forests of the Tatra National Park, an organiisation wlhich delegated, on an
interim basis, the f'unctions of the natuLre conservation organisation. Negotiations were
conducted between the two Ministries on the division of property, powers over the territory and
related transfer of staff into the supervision of the MoE. This resulted in lowering of staflf mor-ale
at the Research Station of the Tatra National Park. Job tncertainty and r estrictions in financing
nature conservation activities in TANAP further aggravated the situLation. As yet, negotiations
have not been finalised, nevertheless a small administration office for TANAP has been in
operation since the spring 1996, but without access to the equipmenit procured under the Project,
which is still kept by the State Forests.
5. Ongoing re-privatisation of land, forest in particular, prevented forest restoration activities
withini the Morava river floodplain (transformationi ol'Amiierican poplar plantations into forests
with site specific species composition) and the establishment of' a central forest nursery,
including a greenhlouse in support of pollution affected forests in Tatra National Park. The were
two reasons. First of all, national regulations restricted major investments on land with possible
ownerslip claims by noni-state enitities and the Grant Agreemenit bounLd the Recipient to ensure
that the Pr-oject activities were carried out on land owned by the Recipient or on land to which
the Recipient had rights under longer-term contractual arranigemenits.
6  Project activities in Eastern Carpathians which included major management planning
compon1entl under the project - developmenit of a maniagemelnt plain were affected by institutional
reform within environml-ent sector which took place in 1993, when Slovak lEnvironrnental
Agency was established headquartered in Banska Bystrica. As a result, a utLll capacity lor nature
conservation maniagemenit planninig concentrated in the former Slovak Institute lor Nature
Coonservationi, whicih was refen'ed in the Project Document disappeared. Also late designation of
the Poloniny National Park (Eastern Carpathians) in 1 997 instead ol' 1993 as it was loreseen in
relevant Governmlitent resolutioln has resulted in delay of the whole process with the management
plan still in draft and not yet to be dealt with by the Governmenit.
7. Somewlhat weakened goverinment comrmitment to the project was observed from time to time
in the course ol' the Project. Frequent changes in high position1 MoE officials in Nature
Conservation section of the Miniistry (3 times chanige in Director of the Section of Nature and
Landscape Conservation, Inter-sectoral Relations and EIA, Director ol'Nature alnd Landscape
Conservation Department was replaced twice), 4 times replacemrient of State Secretary of the
Environmelnt as well as a transfer in 1995 witliin the MoE organisationi schleme of the PMCU,
fromii the direct supervision by the State Secretary as agreed during the negotiation ol' the G(rant
Agreemenlt to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Department.
8. On the positive side, the appointment of qualified and very committed professionals witllin
the PMCIJ ensured smooth implementation of the project, relatively consistent with the original
clesign. The added advantage was that the Project Manager had previous experiences withl



- 32 -                          APPENDIX B
managing PHARE projects and thus had a good understanding for strictly following rliles and
procedures of initernational donors.
9. It is hecessary to add that the bilateral financing foreseeni at project appraisal (an amoun-t of
500,000 USD via Austrian EcoFund) did not come through in its entirety anid still remains
unclear to both the PMCU and the MoE. Nevertheless, the study on sustainable tourism in
Morava Region was financed out of thlis source.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Morava
1. The Project provided f'or the substantial increase of knowledge of the biodiversity of the area,
Llsing GIS, whiclh had been closed to the public for a couple of decades in the past, and
established a basis for ecologically more sensitive maanagemelnt of floodplain meadows, forests
and the river itself. Restoration activities implemented in this project area have received high
attention of the stake holders, whetlher they were farmers or water maanagement authorities and
they all slhow the commitment to sustain the activities started under the project.
2. The project attracted additional funds from the PHARE to continue in restoration of the
lloodplain meadows and to develop ecologically sound meadows managemiient planl for tlle area.
3. Restoration of the two Morava river meanders Ifrom the main flow when the river was being
chainelled through this century, possibly the most controversial component of the Project, was
and continues to be discussed by both the Slovak and Austrian water maniagement authorities to
ideentify common follow-up actions, which would contribute to the higlhest possible revitalisation
of th-e downstream section of the river while ensuring integrity of the state border.
4. The techlnical equipment acquired under the Project is in the operation, while the f'ull use in
the fiture will depend on the Government staff policy towards nature conser-vation authorities.
5. 'I'lie component was suiccessful in initiating a mechaniism to generate a modest revenue in
support ol' biodiversity protection of the floodplain through guiding services and selling the small
goods to visitors of the area, which both has been operated by the local NGO andl has developed
an efl'ective co-operation with local commUnities as well
Tatry
6. InstitLtionally, the capacity-building elements of the component did not go as far as initended.
The technical equipment was reported to be in operation, however its effective use in the future
will depend on division of the property anid substantive staff between the local state forest
administration and the adm-linistration of the National Park. Its continued use for biodiversity
protection in the Tatra National Park is uncertain as move of the certain equipment into different
nature conservation workplaces has been indicated.
7  The scientific capacity to study and monitor the biological resources of the Tatras, and to
collaborate with Polish counterparts, is strong and has been even strengtlhened in the course of
the Project; but the will and financial resources to translate this researclh into in-siltu action are
not currently present.
8. Fi-rom the biological standpoint, nio in-silu conservation took place wlhose sustainability can
be assessed. Technologically, ex-situ conservation facilities acquired under the Project can
contribute to safeguarding the biological integrity of the Tatra MoLutains. However, effective



- 33 -                          APPENDIX B
measures have to be taken in the future to stop continuous deterioration of the area through
pollution- and tourism development.
9. Without a doubt there are good prospects for sheep faarming supported in one ol' the local
villages of Vichodna. It provides job opportunities for local people and lhelps to maintain
biodiversity and aesthetic values of the Liptov basin, wlich were developed there as result of
ti-aditional human activities in the past and but tlhreatened by intensive agriculture during the
period of the socialist history and in recent times by decline of agricultu-ral activities in sub-
mounitainous areas.
10. The component did not create the finanicial means to continue limited project activities. Thus
they will solely depend on allocation of Governmen1t resources or ftuture ftund-raisinig activities
Easterii Carpathians
11. T'he long-term biological integrity of the Eastern Carpathians ecosystem is now better
protected thani prior to the proJect, although one cannot say definitively if it is adequately
protected for perpetuity. A part of the territory has received the higlher conservation status
(natioqnal parik - IUCN category II instead of protected landscape area - IITCN category V). The
initernational co-operationi has increased and its effective continuationi is likely, in particular,
tlhrough the Fotundation for the Eastern Carpathians Biodiversity Conservation wlich provicles
both the institution-al framework and the financial mechanism, to support actions for conservation
ol'b iodivei*sity.
12. The effects ol'in situ conservation actions which took place on the forest land will conitinue
as well as management and monitoring of meadows communlities.
1 3. The new lield station in Nova Sedlica village has become a f'avourite venue lor local as well
as nattional events and training and education programs GIS and other equipmenit is in operation
anid represents a valuable asset for the future work of the adnministration of ice.
14. Although certain aspects of public involvement were not as constructive as they might have
been, the exercise undertaken under the Project gave a good start to new ideas regarding
decision-miiaking and participatory planning.
BANK PERFORMANCE
15. The Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal was satisl'ctory. The Bank's missions
were staffed with professionals having appropriate technlical expertise to address both the coulntry
and GEF's priorities in protecting biological diversity. The Bank provided the Recipient witlh a
(general) training in procuLement prior to signing the Grant Agreemelnt, which was positive and
usefiLl and allowed the Recipient ("although at the last mitnute") to lhave a foundationi for
consideration of procuremen-t procedures proposed by the Bank (which was particularly
important in the absence of national procurement law at that period). However, there was no
training on finanicial issues, disbursemenit and project accounting until the advanced stage of
project implemenitation. The project was designed in an innovative and pioneering way; having
included integrated conservation and development program. its design was seen bothi amlbitious
and compreh-elnsive, but as reality has shown not easy to implemenit.
16. Banik perflormance during imiplemien-tation was highlly satisfactory. Communicationi between-
the Bank and the Recipient was quite intensive, seven main supervision miiissionls took place
between November 1993 and February 1997, and several small missions and conisultations took
place in between and after February 1997. The Bank stafl, both techlnical and operational, was



- 34 -                        APPENDIX B
always open to provide the Recipient with consultation oT advice as it was needed. HIowever,
from lime to time, delay was observed in certain responses from the part of the Bank, which was
particularly critical when required approvals were involved. The Recipient's opinion is that it
may have been caused partly by the Bank's staff being over-loaded with work and simultaneously
involved in GEF and lending operations of the Bank, wlhile later given their inmportance lor
respective countries economies were putting more demands on the Bank staff. The supervision
missions were, again, staffed with experienced professionals, mostly biodiversity specialists
(unfortunately, with one exception only, which was the second task manager, tlley all came from
continien-ts different from Europe and hlad no previous field experiences with Central European
ecosystems and local management traditions). The main co-operating team was kept stable in
composition, however task managers were changecl 4 times in the course of the Project
implementationi plus in summer 1994 there was only a contact pelrson clesignated f'or a period of'
two-tree moniths until a new task manager took over the Project early in October 1 994. Frnom a
genieral point of view, the Recipient deems it not to be very practical for keeping continuity of
pro ject implementation. However, each of the four task manager-s were viewed by the Recipient
as dedicated and competent people and the changes whicih happelned did not affect the Project
negatively.
RECIPIENT PERFORMANCE
17. In early stages
(a)          low experience (of both beneficiaries and government departmlienits) in
dealing with international donors, including the World Bank, and lower
understanding of the GEF mission which resulted in less effective co-operation
from the part ol'tlhe Recipient,
(b)          establishment the Slovak Republic as a sovereigni counltry instead of being
a republic within a federation- caused delay in finalising tlhe Project details and
pr-epar-ation of the Granit Agreement (cotuter- partners of' the Bank had chlanged,
one more Project area - Morava Floodplain included tinder the project in final
stages of the pro ject preparation to provide lfor trans-national co-operation in
protection of the Morava -- Dyje Rivers ecosystemus witlh the Czech Republic).
I In thie Implementationi phase
(a)          The Government - all main legal covenants were met in a timely fashion,
however somehow weakened commitment of the Governmenit was observed and
low support to resolutions of conflicts wlhiclh have affected the P1roject's effective
implementation for instance Tatra National Park
(b)          PMCU - commitment of the PMCU director and her- staff to the Project
objectives had been a pr-incipal driving force for the Project implementation.
Designation in 1994 of the PMCU as National Biodiversity Secretariat had both
positive andl problematic aspects. Of this, certainly positive side was that the
Project had not remained isolated from the nationial biodiversity processes,
includinig development of the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, and
through later continuity and sustainability of certain Pro ject componenits were
ensured. A problematic aspect of that developmeent could have occasionally been
work toad and time constraints put on th-e PMCU.



- 35 -                          APPENDIX B
1. In addition to the above, Project Areas staff provided a valuable technical input to the Project
and was engaged in co-ordinating local stakeholders. Local managers were appointed only for
certain periods of the Project implementation and provided support to activities implemented in
the Project areas. In recruitmen-t processes, lack of proper candidates available locally in remote
areas of Slovakia was observed (reluctance to temporary jobs, unsatisfactory language skills)
Participation of NGOs, research institutions, universities ancd other local entities gave visibility to
the project and ensured its social sustainability.
2. The performance of pro ject consultants and conltactors was in general satisfactory, however
in certain cases a too academic approach and lack of senise for practical solutionis had been
observed in carrying out the studies.
3. Reluctance towards using foreign consultalnts was justified considering the language barrier
and lack of experiences in working witlhin the region. Oin the other hland, there was frequent
contact and sharing of experiences with Czech Republic PMCU, managers and experts.
4. The grant was almost fuilly (over 99%) disbursed, the undisbursed amount corresponds to
gains on the exchange rate between SDR and dollar which were not utilised by the Recipient.
ASSESSMENT OF OIITCOME
5  Overall, the project produced satisfactory results, in particular at the Eastern Carpathians and
the Morava Floodplain Project Areas. However, as far as the Tatra National Park is concernied,
the expectations were not fully met due to institutional wealkess occurred in the course of the
Project implementation.
6. Nearly all tle work planned was pursued and soine results have been lhighly satisfactory
(restoration anid management of meadows at the Morava floodplain, building of capacity for
nature conservation data m1aniagement in support of relevant decision making, internationlal co-
operation and somze research). Weaker or innovative components like assessment of carrying
capacity or planning for sustainable development did not meet all its real targets, however both
repiresenit valuable exercise from which lessons lor ILuture activities can be learnt. Although more
time is needed to assess its final results, the project already achieved a number of significanlt
milestones: establishment of the Poloniny National Park, introduction of the certain economical
assessmenlts inlto the conservation planming, partial restoration of meanders of the Morava River,
tri-national Foundation for the Eastern Carpathians Biodiversity Conservation, and support to
partnership building between nature conservation authorities and local communities. Last but
not least, contribution of the project is hum1an capacity which lhas been built throughi trainiing
activities along with strengthening of institutional capacities which both will remain as assets to
the Recipient.
7. With regard to the complexity of the Project objectives and a broad scope of activities which
were carried out under thie Project, it has been so far the most conmprelhensive biodivcrsity project
in the Slovak Republic, and was fully supportive to the objectives ol the Conventionl on
Biological Diversity, in particular to the coniservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of its
componelnts.
FUtTtlRE OPERATION
8. The Recipient has not prepared a formal operational plan covering the Project per se,
lhowever there is a detailed Biodiversity Action Plan adopted through the Government resolution
No. 515 or August 4, 1998, which contains a num-ber ol activities to contilnue with operationis



- 36 -                          APPENDIX B
started unider ttie Project. Due to the serious constrains in the state budget for some ol' tlhem
foreign financing will be needed.
9  Besides, a draft Management plan whiclh is available for the Poloniny National Park/ Fasternl
Carpathians Biosph-ere Reserve, some of the recommendations made on how to manage florests in
the Eastern Carpathians and oni the Morava Floodplain have been acceptedl by the forest
managemilenit authorities and have been incorporated into forest managemenit plans through which
they are going to be implemented. Certain activities started under the Pro ject will naturally
continue, as the beneficiaries have a direct interest in pursuing them, like restoration and
ecological management of the Morava Floodplain meadows (EU via PIIARE finances next three
year activities, relevant agreements with farmers concluded), fIurther- restoration of the Morava
River ecosystem (water management authorities both in Slovakia and Austria show a deep
commiitmenit to that) waste separation at the Eastern Carpathiains Biosphere Reserve (driven by
local communiities), co-operative sheep keeping in the \Vychodnia village (Talias) (provides job
opportunities and generates revenue for local people), monitoring and managemilent of'meadows
at the Poloniny National Park/Eastern Carpathianis Biospher e Reserve.
10. Tlhe Recipient would be interested in support tlhrough GEF Enabling Activities o f the CBD
CHM (biota data management) and has supported a project idea submitted by the Daphle --
Cenltre for Applied Ecology for finanicing by the GEF, aimed at mapping natural and semi-
natural meadows nationi-wide and their sustainable management. Last year, under thie maediumn
size projects window /climate clhange focal area/ it explored possibilities of'finiancing a pr-o'ject
aimned at mitigation of climate change on the Central European ecosysteml1s.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
11. The project was intended to assist the Slovak Republic's effort to conserve its sigiriFicant
variety of ecosystems and plant and animal species, to contribute to the onl-goinig inteirnationial
el[forts to conserve biodiversity in-situ and to test approaches to integrated conservationi and
developmenLt planning for the buffer zones of the protected a reas, inclucdin-g developmnent of
reveniue generation mechanisms.
1 2. Institutional stability is one of the key conditions for Project success. In the fuiture, it shoulcd
be included among legal covenants of the Recipient, or clear rules slhould be deftined on how the
instittutional changes, which the Recipielnt would decide to implement in the cotul-se of tle
project, would have to be notified to the Bank and wlich implications tlhc could hiave on the
Project as a whole or its single components. Also, clear terms of reference f`or the PM(U lare
dlesirable.
13. In-situ conservation remains a primary approach to biodiversity conservationi in Slovakia,
wlichl is as needed, supported by proper ex-silu conservation measUres. In changing social anid
economic conditionis it has now more players, whose behaviour can be inluellced, as the ProjcCt
h-as proved, thirough proper incentives.
14. It has become apparent that the potential economic value of' natural o01 well preserved nature
areas is becoming more and more recognised by the local communities. Notwitlhstanidinig that is
does not provide solution to all problems, nature conservation based tourism is viewed as an
imnportant, source of reveniue generation for the comlLunities living in remote areas (especially in
motntains and valleys), which, in addition, feature higher rates of unemiploymenit as it is in the
cities or village communiities in fertile lowlands.



- 37 -                          APPENDIX B
15. Training represents only a first step in the general human capacity building process. But if
th-e conditionls are not created (for instance due to budget constraints, understaffing of the
protected areas administrations) for the full use/application of the knowledge obtained in the
traininlg process, the usefulness of the training is jeopardised. Also training, especially cost
demanding ones which generate highly demanded skills (and highly paid for) by the private
sector, has to be followed with proper staff stabilisation policies.
16. Involvement of NGOs into Project implementation whether througlh the NGO Small Grants
Program, or through the main Project activities, proved to be very useftil. It not only gave larger
puiblicity to the Project but contributed to the cost effectiveness of certain activities by avoidinlg
spending grant funds to pay high overhead costs of the larger academic and researclh inlstitUtionls.
1 7 In addition, the NGO Small Grants Program represenited sn importanit source of financing of
the NGOs activities on the national level, particularly in the situation of general shortage of funlds
for the noni-governmenital sector and weak tax and other policies to entcourage the emergilng
private sector to provide funds in support of environmental activities. This was especially
important in light of the fact that some NGOs in Slovakia posses conmpetent and flexible staff,
wlhich in many cases is represented by young scientists eager to have a possibility to apply
modern methods of scielntific research and data processing. Such NGOs, if the support for their
activities contin-ues can represent a beginning of formation in Slovakia of non- goverlnmenltal
/private/ non-profit environmientally oriented institutions, which can be fouind in many countries
of the developed world, can become a valuable contribution to both the nationial and interniational
consultanits markets.
I 8. The project was best designed for the Eastern Carpathians, as it included differelnt actions
from stock-taking and assessments through a management plan for the National Park and
framework conservation strategy for the Internation-al Biosplhere Reserve. However, both have
not yet received legally binding status. Also well designed was the Morava Floodplain, although
clevelopment of management options was not done in a comprelhenlsive plan covering the whole
Pro ject area, but ratlher as recommenidationls for single ecosystems (forests, miieadows,
freshwaters), which however have not decreased their quality.
19 For Tatras, the Project seems to be under-designed, becaLuse it lacked sufficienlt in-sil/n actions
to follow through on what it initiated.
20. The lack of explicit targets and inidicators for measurin g progtess against implementationi
plans and project objectives prevented a clear assessmenit of success, cost-elfectiveness and basic
usefulness of most components throughout implementation. Also specific guidance for project
progress reporting if provided at the project start, could contribute to better analysing the Project
partial achievements or failures in the course of the implementation phase anid possibly help to
avoid omissions.
21. The project was able to generate importanit support through PHARE (the Moorava
Floodplain), Man and the Biosphere Program and provided input to other initiatives (Trialog).



- 38 -                                 APPENDIX C
APPENDIX C: BORROWER'S CONIMENTS ON ICR
GEF Biodiversity Protection Project (SK - GEF 28644)
Remarks to the Implementation Coimpletionl Report
Preface:
Paragraph 2: as shown at the monthly disbursement summaries which came after the date of the
last disbursement (October 6, 1998) SDR 990.90 has remained undisbursed at the Grant Account as
well as USD 163.10 representing un;lisbursed balance of advance to tle Special Acco1nt w  hich
countin; together is more than USD 1000.- .
Evaluation summarv:
Paragraph 6: we strongly recommend to make reference to the Tatra National Park when central
forest nursery is mentioned to mak-e it clear that the intention was to establish the Central Forest
Nursery located at the Tatra National Park and serving to the park.
`e do not feel that unavailability of funds from the Austrian Ecofund caused siCflificant re-
orzanisation oL Project components and budget. As indicated earlier, co-financing coming from this
source was never clear to the Recipient neither it was clearly reflected in the Project budget.
-CRPart I.
Paragraph 5: We kindly request to replace the world ,,res.rve" with expression ,,procected
landscape areas" which reflects the status of the two project areas in accordance with national
nature conservation law at the time of the project preparation and at the early stages of its
implementation.
Paragraph 7 (c) :support via the Project was intended for an IN GO Small Grants Program at the
national level, not for the Foundation NGO Small Grants Pro;-ram, which later was established by
the decision of the Foundation Board. Accordingly, the paragraph should reed as follows:
for professional development and training. for an NGO Small Grants Program anid for the new
FECEC in the SlovackRepublic, Poland and Ukraine." ( In addition, the establishmnent of the
Foundation was originally budgeted for undcr the Conservation programn)
Paragraph 17: We request the last sentence be deleted or amended. Floodplain wiih its typical
rezimes existed before the project, only its area was decreased as result oF introducing flood control
arranaements in the past. Certain project activities (restoration) allowed for certain ecosystems to
return -radually.
Paragraph 19 : The second sentence should rcad as fllows : While the Nature and Landscape
Protection Act No. 287/94 effective since January 1995 stipulated that all national parks were to be
supervised by the MvIOE, at that time TANAP was under the jurisdiction of the MLTM, which
promptly changcd the status of cxisting institutional arrangements from principally nature
conservation oriented to forest management ones. (please note that the status of the area has
retnained unchangcd. in addition in Slovakia, we do not recognise State Forests as provided for by
thie rclevant UI S. legislation)



Paragraph 22: editorial: ,.of ,, in the 5th line should be deleted.
Paragraph 23: fromli the text it is not clear how many Board members represent a quorum,
Therefore, please note, that to have a quorum 9 country representatives (out of 12) and I (out of 2)
institutional representative ( either of WWVF or Mac Arthur Foundation) have to be presented at the
meecina.
Paragraph 28: TIhe first sentence requires revision, it seems to be a coinbination of the two ideas:
Project Management was entrusted to a Project Management and Co-ordination Unit housed at the
MOE. As needed, additional management officers were appointed in each of the three project areas.
Paragraph 51: Please note that more appropriate is to refer to a state budget or national (?) budget
as current Slovakl Republic has no arrangements which can be referred to as federal.
Paragraph 52; ,,.../ Eastern Carpathians MaB" should be replaced with ,..../Eastern Carpathians
Biosphere Reserve"
LCR Part Il.
Table 3 : Project Time Table
Please no that:
w we have no data on when the project was apprised, but was it only in 7/95 ?
gralnt agreement negotiations took place in 9/93 not in 7/93
*  original closing date was 12/96 not 06/97, while project completion was expected by 06/96.
-  extended closing date was 06/98 with additional grace period till October 31, 1998.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Figure indicating tbe actual cutnulative disbursements in FY 98 should be revised to correspoond
With figures in respective tables 8A and 8B.
Table 7: Studies induded in the Project;
Table does not include indication that the studies were completed on the date indicated at the ,,sratus
columan"
Study 7 was not delivered in 5 parts. but it was developed by five named consultants.
Study 11 was also used for developing a management plan for the Poloniny National Park
Study 12 primary purpose was to support and guide a trans-boundary co-operation in conservation
of the Eastern Carpathians ecosystem.
spelling notes:
Study 7 Mr. Korpe should spell Korpel
Mr. Luka6 should spell Lukac
Study 10 ?v. Voloseuk should spell Voloscuk
Mr. Petricko should spell Petricko



Table 10: Status of legal covenants
Revised fulfilment date for covenant included in section 3.01(b) of the Grant Agreement should be
10/95 (not 4/94).
Revised fulfilment date for covenant included in section 3.03 is 3/10/94 (understand Mvlarch
10,1994)
Revised fulfilment date for covenant of section 3.04 is the same as was original e.g. 10/31/93!
Appendix A  ICR MissinWs Aide Memoire
Paragraph 1  ,,Congress of the Parties Meeting" should be replaced with ,,Conferencc of the
Parties Meeting"
Paragraph 4: Please note that Slovak GEF project was always named Biodiversity Protection
Project not Biodiversity Conservation Project.
Paragraph 15 spelling - in line 2 .."he" (government) should be replaced with ,,the;"(g,overnment)



IBRD 23938R1
T. S-*                                                                                                                                      POLAND
)             fS        XjsX I z}   CZECH REPUBLIC
0WS-if dSS4/S       ,,     );/   Sj  |>  _   _   SLOVAK REPUBLIC  j
S AUSTRIA       nBoilvsr
9- N--|-   HUNGARY    C
16  j-'            jO_
k'. 0-                                           S                                              - t P O lFA N  D  0 0 ; > POLAND, SLOVAK REPUBLIC AND UKRAINE
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
,r,'  ,.= ,'\',''-  '                     rEAST CARPATHIAN
BIOSPHERE RESERVES
= - -      rPROPOSED NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY
-~   5   PROPOSED INTERNATIONAL BIOSPHERE
RESERVE BOUNDARY
-   BOUNDARY OF 'STUZICA" NATIONAL RESERVE
ZONES:
CORE
TRANSITION
MAIN ROADS
RAILROAD
A    S.-, SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
0 OTHER TOWNS AND VILLAGES
RIVERS
_-  mi*- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\, \7F 5ou <s + @ Ztl.Pgdv ' - rm t \ ; 2 j h X MS <'4oj jj' ;.1' '' 5 a; 'g{~~~Th huneana nInn, dnosintine nd nyntI,, nb,s,no
'ryPtolin6Mi ,':;;, ., '> :fa 0 \9: \^ A; t ffi: : =; ' >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sosn n In np o otnpy.enth prtofTh Wrl BnkGru
k t s [ n A y / x t A:, . ,.,1 t = ,, ph"E lE D; n I, ) ,,, . 1 E x, g . : . ts q j iti1fnyiogmen en he leal sews f an teritoryjor ny edore,nen
StX                                                        /         ;        ;        ,t           U K;RA  I NE40            ! ;       f
ToHumeni  ~~~~~~~~~~ Kaln6 Roxa  X s   i  z                       , - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                 A    6  8 p 1KILOMETERS
\ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r accetanc  of Juc  r nu!dani
Kl       ev-                                                                                           Th.         1-, d_ - i-J  1
<_Uolo                                                                                                JUNE 1994~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lyl'bdBkG-p






CZECH REC ad SVAKPREPUBLIC                                                                   L
Ses;$fin~~~~~~~~~ L{t\ -V
-   - RAILROADS                    1              MA   RAVA
0R OTE TON AN VILAGE
- - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY     *                          .-  A 
*d  .6|iorskT.Ves
0  2  4  6  B   10 Kit   ETERSt
T.ebdss ooto, d.oo,oo
CZECH REPUBLIC and SLOVAK REPUBLIC                                         1               \t\        SLOVAK
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS                                                                      \
PALAVA / MORAVA                                                                     I    '   \z6-dc
t / i \REPUBLIC
PRCJECT BOUNDARY                                                   '            \
ZONES: (REFER TO TEXT) .f
soo Invnd ZONE In
0       ZON 111    0j ZONE '\
ZONE IV                                               l/OqOy
1 |AUSTRIA-ABUTTING PROTECTED AREA                  2
MAIvN ROADS                                     J             MO R AVA    
R---   AILROADS                                        .  
MRWSELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                               Malockyt
O   OTHER TOWNS AND VILLAGES
RIVERS                                                                          t     \
-'- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                        <                                                   X
0     7;    L    f;    E     10 KILOMETERS                     r5ce                                               /
T4 ZEh. REUBIC  ,  -
z,\,   CZECH REPVAKREPULICC
n AUSTRIA      t\      n                                                               N V ..          B
2  ~ ~   ~    ' ~HUNGARY   ~
iTh  World d=n' Gr5mp, or> judg0mm00-
on                 20 SO hlU fAYL j>Y r/_                                  OOO//






IBRD 24050
2b.
GERMANY J<,,,&s            POLAND          )                                            SLOVAK REPUBLIC
-  /                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL PARK BOLJNDARY
-50                                                                                                                                                              BOU Y a N       L PK PEGEF BIODIVERSITY  PROJECT  BOUNDARYOFNATIONALPARKPROTECTION20NE
CZECH REPUBLIC    N   A.,                                                 TATRAS BIOSPHERE RESERVES                                                         ZONES:
CORE
*'/L5I,A b(1~1      Z.      %                                                                                                                 BUPFER
ETI,sIooo  ,r    K                                                                                                     I                       t l.U  75 TRANSITION
. AUSTRIA                           A'POLAND-ABUTTINGNATIONALPARK
HUNGARY  (l.I
15'                20'    RBOMANIA        tj                         Zo_                           1    A20                                             MAINROADS
-, .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p,k
Rodice~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z.                                                         o b " . .d                 o1 -  m
1' D ADd ,495~~~.:N.  k- o...              p6. !Std^sd
Lipt                                                                                                                                  ;A,yLp   owm.hon  hompd  nrolyo  hopo o   oWol   oo   ro
plKk Lo         oy j o   o   o log  'o   of on  ronr,;o,  ooy.o o o
onoooopr--orooofool  ; rboondoooo,"'l,<     l l  g, f,,,:;\i: i  i: :':, \ ':  t :':.ti 7 ' ::twfsl ' '  A\'-    > "   '  \  ='' ' -0 '  ^
lk-' 'os
s~~~~~~-6  16                      H,d D.-I                                                                                               S    lp'i,, 6rt Tp r k;;\<v.
S ( ~~~~~~1LX  ~~~~~~*  )L  /  ~~~~~~~~\t~~~~'~~~ 7 ;iF' 'i'M ;V5412$=t;,i6 gi l0 W;9 ' g \ 5 t t 1' -  -i2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
tip h vse  f  ]lc  a  -            >S;.1t.!LS, 'FG  0 3   5 ~~~~~~~~dI  r 1 i $ t "    a   2 sj4   AL                  9      dft>>qa   ' M fO,*oY   Ejj K8zmarok~~~~~~S.
yj~~~~~~~~~~~Lp aI.,06k.                                        h  -h,) -igV --ply '.;'14.-fh Wf '.. G/p
Lipt. Trnewrk t7 Smretony \> + o/ I \ ~~~~~~~~~~~, . J.. Z-L f. -;.,y CWouF'>JHnec -
/  gOTabob 7  Vern6Porubo /   u /                                      >       \             ;      i XL         <-\> f-s b- -i-
JU NE 199A



