GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
Slovak Republic
Biodiversity Protection Project
Project Document
June 1994
U
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming. pOHlutiQn of international.waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemelited
bythe United Nations DevelopmentProgramme.the United NationsEnivironmentProgramme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementinig agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street. NW
Washinigtoni. DC 20433
Telephoiie: (202) 473-1816
Fax. (202 522-3256



Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11738-SK
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
OF COUNTRY DEPARTMENT H
OF THE EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 1.7 MILLION (USD 2.3 MILLION)
TO THE
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
FOR A
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
June 15, 1994
Agricultum and Water Supply Operation Division
Contry Departm U
Europe and Cental Asia Rei



- 11 -
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
EXCHANGE RATE
Slovak Koruna 32.70 = US$1 (November 1993)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BSP    -   Biodiversity Support Program (of USAID)
DNLC    -   Department of Nature and Landscape Conservation
ECU     -   European Currency Unit
EU    -   European Union
EuroMaB    -   European Secretariat of Man and the Biosphere Program
FECBC    -   Foundation for Eastern Carpathian Biodiversity Conservation
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
GEF    -   Global Environment Facility
GET    -   Global Environment Trust Fund
GIS    -   Geographic Information System
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
IMF    -   Intemational Monetary Fund
IUCN    -   The World Conservation Union
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
MaB    -   Man and the Biosphere Program
MLM      -   Ministry of Land Management
NGO    -   Non-Government Organization
PMCU      -   Project Management Coordinating Unit
RAMSAR    -   Convention of Wetlands of International Importance
SME    -   Slovak Republic Ministry of Environment
SOE    -   Statement of Expenditure
SZOPK    -   Slovak Union of Nature and Landscape Protectors
TA    -   Technical Assistance
UNEP    -   United Nations Environment Program
UNESCO      -   United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development
WWF    -   World Wildlife Fund/World Wide Fund for Nature



- iii -
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT FOR
GRANT AND PRoJEcr SUMMARY
Grantee:                             Global Environment Trust Fund
Beneficiary:                         Slovak Republic
Total Project Cost:                  US$3.170 million
GRANT:  GEF                          US$2.300 million
OTHER:  MacArthur Foundation         US$0.310 million
Slovak Government         US$0.060 million
Austrian Ecofund (Morava)   US$0.500 million
Terms:                               Grant from Global Environment Trust
Onlending:                           Not applicable
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign     Total
Source                      (US$ Million)
GEF Grant                         0.000      2.300     2.300
MacArthur Foundation              0.000      0.310     0.310
Austrian Ecofund                  0.000      0.500     0.500
Slovak Government                 0.060      0.000     0.060
TOTAL                         0.060      2.110     3.170
Economic Rate of
Return:          Not calculated, though substantial environmental benefits are expected.
Staff Technical
Report:          Report No. 11738-SK
MAPS:    1. Global Environment Facility: Biodiversity Project Areas  IBRD 24594R
2. GEF Biodiversity Projects: East Carpathian Biosphere Reserves  IBRD 23938R1
3. GEF Biodiversity Project: Tatras Biosphere Reserve      IBRD 24050R
4. GEF Biodiversity Projects: Palava/Morava                IBRD 23939R






SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
Background
1. Three priority zones (Eastern Carpathians, Tatras and Morava) of threatened biodiversity have been
identified in the Republic, each along borders with neighboring countries. Collectively the areas contain
a diversity of plant and animal species within a variety of ecosystems that are important examples of
evolutionary processes for Eastern Europe.
2.  The areas are theoretically protected at this time as national parks, nature reserves or landscape
protected areas, but they are being degraded through pollution, overuse by visitors and complex impacts
from adjacent land uses. Although the threat from air pollution is expected to diminish with economic
reconstruction, visitor pressures are likely to grow substantially. The privatization of land will increase
development pressures on all natural areas, particularly from tourism, agriculture and forestry and the
opening of borders is likely to attract substantial numbers of external visitors.
3. The Slovak Eastern Carpathians National Park will be established with the passage of new legislation
on nature protection. More importantly it is one of three areas of an International Biosphere reserve
where management is to be coordinated between three countries. As well the first ever tri-national Trust
will be established to maintain the trans-boundary co-ordination as part of this project.
4. The Slovak Tatra National Park, contiguous with the national park in Poland, is a forested mountain
system with high visitation, alpine and sub-alpine vegetation and sites of specific biodiversity in the alpine
meadows. These meadows are species rich, sites for endemic plants and are particularly important as an
ecotone' where they adjoin the forest.
5. The Morava floodplains (part of which are in a landscape protected area) in the Slovak Republic
contain wetlands of international importance remaining as a result of military border controls up untl
1990. Recent ad hoc development and agricultural intrusions mean these areas are at threat and immediate
action is required to protect the wetlands and isolated remnant floodplain forests.
Rationale for GEF Involvement
6.  The proposed Slovak biodiversity protection is innovative, addresses the protection of three threatened
areas internationally significant biodiversity and foster demonstration programs and models for biodiversity
protection for use throughout the region.
7. The GEF project has been accorded high priority by government, however, funds are not available
from government sources to carry out the work proposed here. The project would provide the
government with urgently needed support to protect the biodiversity of the Tatras, Morava and Eastern
Carpathian areas.
8.  The project also provides a continuation of the necessary interventions required in the region from
already approved GEF projects, as well as addressing specific problems such as privatization in the project
1/  A transition zone between distinct ecosystems.



-2-
planning components. These will have utility and applicability to other countries facing similar issues.
The establishment of the first tri-national Trust as an on-going mechanism for support is a particular
innovation as well as a small grants program to environmental NGOs which will be contrasted to a
different approach in the related Czech Republic GEF project.
9. Another common problem in the region addressed by the project will be the identification of the
carrying capacity of particular ecosystems and the mechanisms, economic and otherwise, to maintain
visitation at or below this determnined carrying capacity. The solutions and approaches developed here
will be of considerable benefit for protected area managers and dependant communities. The transmission
of the results of this project will be aided by the fact that the selected areas adjoin protected areas in
neighboring countries. This will enable extension of any of the successful approaches undertaken in the
project to be adopted throughout the ecosystem and easily adopted by the neighboring country.
Project Objective
10. The objective of this project is to protect and strengthen forest and related ecosystem biodiversity in
the Slovak Republic, and to:
a.     Foster systems of financially sustainable biodiversity protection in the Slovak Republic
through the introduction of user fees, related charges for visitors and concessions to manage
the areas within their determined "carrying capacities;" and to evaluate the role that
economic mechanisms might play in keeping visitation to levels below identified carrying
capacities;
b.     Establish a three country mechanism (Ukraine, Poland and the Slovak Republics) through the
development of an International Trust for the Biodiversity Protection of the Eastern
Carpathians whose income would be used to protect the biodiversity in this transboundary
area;
c.     Protect three zones of representative threatened ecosystems: alpine meadows (Tatras),
wetlands (Morava Floodplain), and mountain forests (Eastern Carpathians);
d.     Support the activities of three transnational biodiversity protection networks: Eastern
Carpathians Biosphere Reserve (Poland, the Slovak Republic and Ukraine); the Tatra
Biospher Reserves (Poland and the Slovak Republic); and the Morava Floodplain Forests and
Wetlands (Slovak and Czech Republics and Austria); and
e.     Develop a conservation program to address priority issues such as privatization.
Project Description
11. To implement these objectives, the project will involve the following activities:
a.     A  Biodiversity Protection Program  to initiate a range of activities including the
development of management techniques for key biotypes (forest, wetlands and alpine
meadows), the development of community support for the reserve system and particularly
for the sustainable management of contiguous forest systems adjacent to the protected areas,



- 3 -
specific ex-situ conservation measures where ecosystem protection and restoration are
unlikely to be successful and biodiversity research and management;
b      A Conservation Program to develop revenue generation mechanisms for the protected area
system, will examine the feasibility of using economic mechanisms to manage the level of
visitation, will foster interactions with local communities and land management and uses in
the adjacent forest systems; and will institute demonstration activities to be used as models
both nationally and internationally (particularly in the ecosystems in the selected transborder
regions); and
c.     An Institutional Infrastructure Improvement Program to provide support for project
management coordination at the national level and at the three selected zones, for
professional development and training, for a small grants program for environrmental the
Slovak Republic NGOs and particularly support for the new Foundation for Eastern
Carpathian Biodiversity Conservation (FECBC) in the Slovak Republic, Poland and Ukraine.
Actions to be Agreed
12. During negotiations on the Grant Agreement, assurances were obtained as follows:
a.     International Joint Scientific Committees The Ministry of Environment shall establish
International Joint Scientific Committees no later than October 31, 1993. This would include
the completion of administrative scientific linkages for the joint Palava/Morava area with the
Czech Republic and Austria, as well as for the activities in the Carpathians with Ukraine and
Poland and the activities between Poland and the Slovak Republic in the Tatras.
b.     Grant Effectiveness    The Grant would be declared effective upon submission of
documentation satisfactory to the Bank that the Project Manager has been appointed and the
Project Management Coordinating Unit established in the Ministry for Enviornment.
c.     Accounts. A special account would be established in a commercial bank for the project
prior to disbursement of the grant. This account would be audited annually by an auditing
firm acceptable to the Bank.
d.     Tatras Administration Project activities at the Tatras National Park will be under the direct
administration of the Ministry of Land Management (MLM), Forestry Section. Financial
and administrative arrangements between the SME and the MLM for these activities would
be effected. No disbursements will be authorized for this component of the Project until
these arrangements have been approved by the Bank.
Benefits
13. The principal benefits are to protect ecological zones of substantial international importance. The
Eastern Carpathians forest in Poland, Ukraine and in the adjoining Slovak are unique in Europe and a
source of endemic biodiversity. The Morava floodplains and the forests and alpine meadows of the Tatras
have many endemic and representative species and habitats of the regions ecosystems. All three areas
are at threat and the project will initiate programs to protect and restore these systems.



- 4 -
14. Innovation is fostered by the integration of the various levels of biological diversity to address issues
in conservation planning, by the unique (for the Slovak Republic) collaboration of groups from a variety
of interests in addition to foresters in issues of forest planning and management, for the balancing of ex-
situ with in-situ' approaches to biodiversity conservation, and by the use of consultation at the local level
in the identification of viable land uses compatible with the preservation of endangered natural systems.
15. The Project is designed to foster biodiversity, institutional and financial sustainability. The long-term
viability is achieved through the strengthening of environmental institutions within the Slovak Republic,
including those responsible for the management of the national parks and reserves. Another facet which
is designed to ensure a project legacy are the training and professional development components. The
goal of sustainable revenue generation activities based on user fees, concessions and leasing arrangements
and the establishment of the new FECBC would also support the long term sustainability of these
investment efforts. They include compatible nature and culture-based tourism, the selling of minor forest
products, harvesting game, balancing uneven-aged, small-scale forest production with natural regeneration,
and other economically sound and environmentally compatible activities.
16. The project will also be a catalyst for the establishment of a Trust for recurrent funding needs of the
Carpathians which will enable the results of the project to be maintained over time. Several of the project
components will address mechanisms and economic measures for the sustainability of the protected area
as well as for the surrounding communities.
17. There is a demonstration value and replicability through the use of integrated planning and new
technologies and the establishment of bilateral and trilateral organizational structures which foster
international resource management approaches.  As a test of this approach to regional issues in
biodiversity, the Project can have significant demonstration value.
Risks
18. Although there are no major risks, implementation could be affected by some institutional weaknesses
at the level of the Department of Nature Protection and Landscape of the SME and instability in
sustainable forest practices whereby ad hoc localized forest utilization decision are taken without
consideration of the long-term maintenance of forest ecosystems and their relationship to adjacent
protected areas.
19. There are also some institutional risks in that legislation and administrative arrangements are not
complete after the recent establishment of the Slovak Republic. Secondly, there are issues of privatization
to be addressed in the planning processes associated with the project. The project will be a key in assisting
with such adjustments while at the same time ensuring that biodiversity considerations are taken into
account in this rapid period of change.
Z/  In-situ conservation keeps components of biodiversity within their original habitat or natural environment as a part of
their evolutionary dynamic ecosystem, whereas ex-situ conservation keeps them alive outside of their original habitat or
environment (e.g. gene banks).



-5 -
Environmental Assessment
20. The proposed activity will have a positive environmental impact by directly improving the
management and protection of the three selected areas. Project supported mechanisms for local
community participation in reserve management and planning will be significant components of the project
and social impacts are expected to be positive as well. As this project has no significant negative
environmental impact it has been reviewed by the Regional Environment Division and has been placed
in the environment screening category "C".
21. Monitoring and evaluation are built into the terms of reference for the Project Management who will
be reporting on a quarterly basis. There are built-in quality control and monitoring elements because of
the research which will be published in peer-reviewed journals of international quality. The international
Joint Scientific Review Committees will review the Project and its progress on a semi-annual basis.
September 16, 1993
Washington, D.C.
Attachments



SCHEDULE A
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS ESTIMATES
(US$ Thousands)
Local    Foreign    Total a   %Foreign    %Total
Investment Costs                                 ----------(US$ '000)----------------
:A.:: Biodiversity Protection Program
1. Biodiversity Management     479.2       42.5    521.7         8.1       20.9
2. Planning                     54.0         6.0      60.0       10.0       2.4
3. Applied Research              13.3       67.3      80.6       83.5       3.2
4. Training and Prof. Dev.       17.5       50.0      67.5       74.1       2.7
Sub-Total               564.0      165.8    729.8        44.0:    29.1.
I . Conservation Program                                                              ..E.E.
1. Buffer Zone Strategies       76.5        13.5     90.0        15.0       3.6
2. C. Capacity & Rev. Mechs. &    163.0      7.0    170.0         0.0       2.8
Demonstration
4. Tri-National Foundation       0.0       610.0    610.0 b    100.0       25.0
Sub-Total               239.5      630.5    870.0       072.9      35A
C. Institution: and Infrastructure
1. Protected Area Facilities   202.3        22.5    224.8        10.0       9.0
2. Comp. & Data Management       87.0      348.0    435.0        80.0      17.4
3. Join Scientific Advisory Commtt   0.0    45.0      45.0      100.0       1.8
4. Project Management            60.0       30.0      90.0       33.3       3.6
5. NGO Small Grants Program      91.0        0.0      91.0        0.0       3.6
Sub-Total               440.3      445.8    885.8        50.3       35.4
::Toal BDASELINE COSTS:                1243.8     1256.8   2485.6        50.3     100.0 :: :
Physical Contingencies           62.2       31.6      93.8       33.6       3.7
Price Contingencies              64.8       24.8      89.6       27.7       3.5
Total PROJECT] COSTS                  1370.8    .1313.2   2670.0a       48.9|i0   107.0...:
.   .   .   . . . .   ..
a Total amount does not include complementary Austrian EcoFund activities (US$0.5 million).
b Includes US$10,000 from the MacArthur Foundation for preparation of Trust Agreement.



SCHEDULE B
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS OF GEF GRANT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Thousands)
Procurement Method
Items                    ICB                 Other             Total
(1)   Civil Works                      -                   200'              200
-                  (200)            (200)
(2)   Goods and Equipment              -                  850.0b            850.0
-                 (600.0)           (600.0)
(3)   Technical Assistance             -                  870.0 C           870.0
-                 (800.0)          (800.0)
(4)   Salaries, Operations and         -                  1,250.0          1,250.0
Maintenance                      -                 (700.0) d         (700.0)
3,170           3,170
TOTAL                                            (2,300)          (2,300)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis are GEF Grant
a/ Civil works will be procured through local shopping.
b/ Inludes International Shopping (US$200,000), Local Shopping (US$200,000) and Direct Purchase ($US200,000).
c/ Includes professional development training, planning and the conservation program (US$800,000) to be procured under Bank's
consultant guidelines.
d/ Includes Project Management Coordinating Unit and contracted field staff.
DISBURSEMENT GEF GRANT
Disbursement
Items                   Amount
(US$ million)   % Financing
(1)  Civil Works                         0.2             100 %
(2)   Goods and Equipment                0.5             100 %
(3)   Technical Assistance               0.7             100 %
(5)   Salaries, Operations &
Maintenance                        0.6             100 %
(6)   Unallocated                        0.3
TOTAL                           2.3



SCHEDULE B
(continued)
ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS (GEF GRANT)
IBRD FISCAL YEAR
1994      1995      1996
Annual             0.5        1.0       0.8
Cumulative         0.5        1.5       2.3
Closing Date: December 31, 1996
SCHEDULE C
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time Taken to Prepare .16 months
(b) Prepared by Ministry of the Environment with Bank Assistance
(c) First Bank Mission .April, 1992
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure .To be determined
(e) Negotiations .September, 1993
(0 Planned Date of Effectiveness .October, 1993
(g) List of Relevant PCRs and PPARS .None
M:WSLOMGEF\PREZMEM.SLO
August 24, 1994



Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11738-SK
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL REPORT
TO THE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECOR
June 15, 1994
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
EXCHANGE RATE
Slovak Koruna 32.70 = US$1 (November 1993)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BSP    -   Biodiversity Support Program (of USAID)
DNLC    -   Department of Nature and Landscape Conservation
ECU    -   European Currency Unit
EU    -   European Union
EuroMaB    -   European Secretariat of Man and the Biosphere Program
FECBC    -   Foundation for Eastern Carpathian Biodiversity Conservation
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
GEF    -   Global Enviromnent Facility
GET    -   Global Environment Trust
GIS    -   Geographic Information System
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
IMF    -   International Monetary Fund
IUCN    -   The World Conservation Union
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
MaB    -   Man and the Biosphere Program
MLM      -   Ministry of Landscape Management
NGO    -   Non-Government Organization
PMCU      -   Project Management Coordinating Unit
RAMSAR    -   Convention of Wetlands of International Importance
SME    -   Slovak Ministry of Environment
SOE    -   Statement of Expenditure
SZOPK    -   Slovak Union of Nature and Landscape Protectors
TA    -   Technical Assistance
UNEP    -   United Nations Environment Program
UNESCO    -   United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development
WWF    -   World Wildlife Fund/World Wide Fund for Nature



SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT FOR
CONTENTS
I.  BIODIVERSITY  AND THE ENVIRONMENT   ...........                          ..1................ 
A.    COUNTRY OVERVIEW   .........................................  1
B.     NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION  ....................  3
Biological Diversity   .......................................   3
Institutional Setting and Legislative Framework  ......................   5
Sectoral Issues.                                                                            6
C.  LESSONS LEARNED FROM SIMILAR PROJECTS.                                                               8
II. THE PROJECT.                                                                                             9
A.    ORIGIN AND RATIONALE  .......................................   9
B.     PROJECT AREAS ............................................   10
Tatras  ...............................................   10
East Carpathians .........................................   11
Morava  ..............................................   12
C.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN  ................................   13
Management Plans  .......................................   13
D.    DETAILs OF PROJECT COMPONENTS  ................................  1S
Biodiversity Protection Program  ...............................   15
Conservation Program    ....................................   19
Institutional Infrastructure Improvement Program   ....................  23
E.     PARTICIPATION BY NGOS AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES IN PROJECT AcnvmET  ... ..   26
F.     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ......................................   26
G.    PROJECT COSTS ............................................  27
H.    FINANCING PLAN  ...........................................   28
I.     PROCUREMENT   ............................................   28
J.     DISBURSEMENT  ............................................   30
K.     PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .............................   31
L.     SUSTAINABILITY  ............................................   31
M.    PRoJEcT RISKS  ............................................   32
m. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .32
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .33
GLOSSARY   ..34
ANNEXES:    1.  Detailed Description of Project Areas
2. Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
3. Sustainable Development Strategy
4. Detailed Cost Estimates and Timeline
5. Rationale for GEF Projects in the Region
6. Biodiversity Small Grants Program and Environmental NGOs
MAPS:            1.  Global Environment Facility: Biodiversity Project Areas                  IBRD 24594R
2.  GEF Biodiversity Projects: East Carpathian Biosphere Reserves   IBRD 23938R1
3.  GEF Biodiversity Project: Tatras Biosphere Reserve                       IBRD 24050R
4.  GEF Biodiversity Projects: Palava/Morava                                 IBRD 23939






SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL REPORT
I. BIODIVERSITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT
A. COUNTRY OVERVIEW
1.1           The project is to assist the Slovak Republic's effort to conserve its significant variety of
ecosystems and the plant and animal species they contain. The need to establish and develop a network
of reserves and protected areas nationally and internationally encompassing representative natural areas
for biodiversity conservation has long been recognized.  This project contributes to the on-going
international effort to conserve biodiversity in-situ (on site) through strengthening a network of specific
border reserves which share representative ecosystems with the neighboring countries of Poland, Ukraine,
Austria and the Czech Republic. This in-situ' conservation is the most practical way to conserve a variety
of ecosystems, species and genes. For most of the areas participating in this GEF project, however, ex-
situ (off site) conservation has been planned to compliment in-situ methods for maximum security,
particularly where species populations are low and are unlikely to be viable in-situ at the current level
of threat. This biodiversity (see Box 1) project also deals with variable and complex land use problems
which impact on the protected areas, and it will initiate innovative approaches suited to the different
ecological and socio-economic situations in each region of the country. The focus will be on conducting
integrated conservation and sustainable development (see Box 2) activities in three transborder areas
(Morava, Tatras and East Carpathians - see Map 1).
1.3            Two of these areas
are a part of an international network  Box I Biodiversity
of biosphere reserves.   Biosphere
reserves are designated under an       Biodiversity refers to the variety and variability amnong
international  scientific  program     living organisms and the ecological complexes in which
conducted by UNESCO for a range    they occur. It encompasses different levels of biological
of objectives which include research,    organization from regional landscapes, ecosystems, and
monitoring,  training  and             habitats to species and genes, and their relative
demonstration,  as   well  as          abundance. Biological diversity was once considered an
conservation.   Zoning is used to    academic subject. However, there is now a realization
define the biosphere reserve (see    that the maintenance of biological diversity influences
Figure 1) and most usually includes a  and impacts on the quality of all life, and as a result the
legally protected core area (such as a  productivity and stability of human societies. The
national park), a legally  defined     concern in recent decades is that the diversity of plant
buffer  zone  and  a  non-defined      and animal life in most regions is declining, as is now
transition zone around the core and    the situation in the Slovak Republic and in most of
buffer.    Biosphere  reserves  are    Central and Eastern Europe.
nominated by the national MaB
committee of the country concerned,
1/  In-situ conservation keeps components of biodiversity within their original habitat or natural environment as a part of their
evolutionary dynamic ecosystem, whereas ex-situ conservation keeps them alive outside their original habitat or environment.



and are only designated following review  and  Figure 1. A Model Biosphere Reserve
acceptance by the UNESCO MaB Bureau.
Criteria for the designation include the history of
scientific studies (giving base line information),
an active scientific research/monitoring programi
and infrastructure, as well as an active educational
outreach program  to involve the surrounding                        u
conmunity in understanding the biosphere.
1.4            The   project  will  provide                                        T
institutional support to the Slovak Ministry of
Environment (SME) and it will link with two
other GEF biodiversity protection projects in
neighboring   countries:  the  Transcarpathian
Biodiversity Protection Project for Ukraine in the             * Co Area   E Experirnental msearch skd
Eastern Carpathians and a Biodiversity Protection                          R Rehellattlo onSe
Project for the Czech Republic.                                  9           1.r4zon  11 M 1nhoing1
E   Transtion ue   U  Treatlnal u. aMa
T Tourld sle
1.5            Therefore, there is now an urgent need, during this crucial time of transition to new
economic systems, to demonstrate that biodiversity conservation and appropriate economic development
can be compatible objectives. This GEF project presents an opportunity to address these problems in
innovative, integrated, and holistic ways at an ecosystem level, rather than by the more traditional
treatment of individual species, areas or site-specific problems. Sites chosen for the project are not
considered as isolated parcels, but as vital parts of larger landscapes which include human communities
and even heavily modified ecosystems. The approach will be one which recognizes the interdependence
of humans and natural systems, and of the interrelations between government sectors and political
jurisdictions. It will focus on the participation of key government sectors and local communities in
developing cooperative solutions to biodiversity conservation and sustainable development.  These
solutions cannot be achieved without such interactive involvement.
1.6            Among  the  innovative
components of the project will be the         Box 2 Sustainable Developmen.t .. .. ... ... .
development of mechanisms to increase the                                                 . . ... . ...... .
economic benefits to local populations in the  Sustainable development is defined by IUCN, WWF,
transition  and  buffer  zones  from  the     and UNEP as: improving the quality iof .human lif.
protected  ecosystems.    These  include      while: livingm   hitin  the  carrying :capacityof
planning and development of appropriate    supporting ecosystems. :::A sustainable economygis
tourism in different types of ecosystems and   :thdie product of sustainable: development  It.maitas
socio-economic   situations,  and   the       ithenu esr   bas. Itcacontinuetodelp.
generation  of revenues through various       by   adapting, through improvements ..n k.owledge.
means, such as visitor fees, and sales of      organization, technical efficiency, and wisd .    ..
interpretative   materials  and   crafts.......
Experiments  and   demonstrations  in
ecologically sound and sustainable land uses will also be initiated, e.g., agricultural and forestry practices,
as these practices can and are having major impacts on the neighboring protected areas. This would be



- 3 -
carried out with the assistance of organizations such as WWF and IUCN, and managers from the private
forest sector which have developed similar innovative approaches in Eastern Europe.
B. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND PROTECTION
Biological Diversity
1.7            The areas selected for the project (see Map 1) represent a variety of ecosystem types and
habitats ranging from high alpine bogs and meadows, pristine mountain streams, primeval forests,
grasslands and woodlands, to lowland floodplain forests, marshes, and lakes, including centuries-old fish
ponds. These areas have been, and are now, important centers of evolution of plant and animal species.
In recent times they have also been centers for scientific research. As a result they are among the best
areas in Central Europe to gain a better understanding of how ecosystems and biodiversity can be
sustained, and in many cases restored as needed. Through research and monitoring in these areas,
knowledge will be gained as to how human activities have affected, and are affecting, different types of
ecosystems and habitats, and how these actions can be changed to keep these areas and the societies that
depend on them, healthy. The forested mountain areas of the East Carpathians and the Tatras are
important international watersheds. Therefore, this GEF project will contribute, not only to the
development of models for biodiversity conservation, but also to the other GEF goals such as the
protection of international waters through water management of the watershed and catchment areas, and
the monitoring of possible impacts of global change in relation to greenhouse gases and ozone depletion.
1.8           Approximately 3,500 vascular plant species are found in the former Czechoslovakia2.
This number includes introduced, inventive and commonly cultivated taxa, but more than two thirds of
the total are indigenous species. The total size of the fauna in the Czech and Slovak Republics is
estimated to be 50,000 to 60,000 species including 600 vertebrates. Practically all Middle European
ecosystems occur in this region, except those typical of the coast. Because of a complicated and dynamic
natural history, the flora and fauna include a wide range of biogeographical elements, with many of the
native species being important relics or even endemics.
1.9           In addition to relatively intact natural areas, such as some of those along the former "iron
curtain," there are also varied and harmonious landscapes which have resulted from centuries-old land-use
patterns. Some of these contain an exceptional diversity of life which matches, or even surpasses, that
of the more natural areas. For example, the meadows (poloniny) of the East Carpathians have developed
endemic species of flora as a result of many centuries of agricultural use. Such stable landscapes, created
where adjustments have been made over long periods between human economies and natural resources,
are of considerable value for their historical and social interest, and the lessons they hold for biodiversity
conservation, now and in the future. Many of these areas are valuable reservoirs of genetic materials,
such as crop and domestic animal varieties associated with land uses which have disappeared from areas
managed under the large scale agriculture of recent times.
1.10          This biological diversity, however, is seriously threatened.   Many species have
disappeared due to habitat degradation and destruction. Degradation has occurred because of improper
agricultural and forestry practices, major engineering works, industry (and attendant problems such as
air, water, and soil pollution), channelization of streams, drainage of wetlands, and soil erosion. The
result has been serious damage or destruction of many ecosystems and habitats.
2/ Figures are not presently available for the Slovak Republic alone as they are still quoted for the former Czechoslovakia,
but are believed to be of the same order of magnitude.



- 4 -
1.11         Tables 1 and 2 detail the endangered and threatened flora and fauna of the Slovak
Republic.  The threat to biological diversity does not only involve individual species (and their
populations), but affects whole biological communities and ecosystems. Among the most threatened,
those that are actually disappearing, are wetlands and floristically rich meadows. Global and local
pollution threaten to reduce the biological diversity in these remaining habitats even without any direct
human impact.
Table la. Threatened Vascular Plants in the Slovak Republic
Httinct   Missing'    Critically     Strongly     Threatened   Not common,   TOTAL
Threatened    Threatened                  further study ....
....._              _  _  _   _._:_:_:_.               _       required    __.. _____
: :::; 9  -0  ::29    327           261            305            378          1309
0.4%.    1.2%           13%           10%           12%            15W.    : %::5.2%
Source: Maglocky 1983.
Table lb. Threatened Vertebrates in Slovak Republic
Cyclostomata !|:Fish.   Amphibian          Reptiles    Birds     Mammal    TOTAL
2             28          18            10          13        51          2.
Source: Trpak in Cerovsky, Petricek, Trpak, Damohorsky 1988.
1.12          The forests of the Slovak Republic are important from an environmental conservation
perspective. Approximately 25 percent of the woodland in the Slovak Republic has been converted to
coniferous monocultures which has significantly reduced the biological diversity of these systems. The
forest ecosystems of Eastern and Central Europe have undergone dramatic biological and physical changes
over the last 500 years although human impact on the forests have been occurring for at least 5000 to
7000 years. It is in the last 500 years with population increases, development of organized societies and
eventually industrialization that these impacts have seriously influenced the sustainability of the native
forests. A major source of concern has been the rapid and unplanned fragmentation of the forests with
the loss of the biologically adapted networks that permitted the natural genetic dispersal of both plants
and animals. In an attempt to correct the environmental decline of these forests a massive tree planting
program began at the turn of the century. Based on the information of that day, forest tree material was
transplanted without a biological basis, and all too frequently artificial homogeneous stands were created.
There was a considerable loss in biological richness and adaptability. However, as we seem to be
constantly learning, the weakness in artificial forest ecosystem sustainability, may not become apparent
until several generations have passed and the level of stress exceeds the ability of the biological system
to accommodate new growing environments.
1.13          Often overlooked in forest ecosystem management is the now apparent relationship and
impact of non-adaptable biological systems on native forests. By creating barriers to gene flow,
biological gaps are created and genetic enrichment is reduced. Thus even natural systems or slightly
modified forest ecosystems become isolated when surrounded by non-native forests and will eventually
decline. Another serious cause of forest deterioration and destruction is air pollution. Therefore the
maintenance of environmental balance and ecological stability have now become the most important goals.



- 5 -
In addition there is growing interest in the non-productive functions of woodlands such as recreation.
About one third of the total forest coverage of the Slovak Republic has been declared as "forests of
special determination" with an emphasis on their environmental and social benefits.
1.14          The Slovak Republic and its Ministry of Environment recognize the complexity of these
problems and are now in the process of establishing new laws, policies, standards, and international
agreements to address the issues of biodiversity conservation and sustainable development.  This
transformation will be a long-term process, but strong actions must be taken now if ecosystems, and
biodiversity are to be conserved. The GEF project would provide the Slovak Republic with the urgently
needed additional funds to initiate the development of conservation and sustainable development models
in the target transboundary areas. These areas are particularly important as they have been conserved by
the previous border and military restrictions which very effectively protected these areas.  These
constraints have now been released and such internationally important natural ecosystems are no longer
well represented in western Europe.
1.15          Conservation Measures. Mechanisms for biological diversity conservation contained in
this project include support for the management and enhancement of a protected area network, in-situ
habitat management and ex-situ cultivation. Research and monitoring are also essential components and
are strongly orientated to the protection and rational use of the biological and genetic diversity of the
country. Implementation of these measures requires the essential support and active co-operative of
communities and individuals at all stages of the project. Therefore this project has a significant emphasis
on community involvement and on the development of sustainable protection, restoration and ex-situ
conservation measures for ecosystems as a whole. The three areas, different ecosystems in themselves,
provide the opportunity to evaluate these measures as models for Eastern Europe and areas in the
emerging CIS Republics. These countries face or will have to face similar environmental issues such as
air pollution and the interrelationship between an established protected area and land uses in the
surrounding areas. Transmission of the evaluation of the project will be a complimentary activity. It will
not only include the publication of research results but will also be conducted within the existing
EuroMaB organization and international associations such as the Carpathians National Park Association.
Institutional Setting and Legislative Framework
1.16          Prior to the development of the Slovak Republic, individual State Nature Conservancy
Acts of the 1950s defined nature conservation as the preservation, renewal, enhancement and use of
natural wealth and detailed the special protection of important areas and natural features. These laws
were supplemented by separate republic guidelines issued in 1978 and 1980 dealing with nature
conservation development. The overall objective was to integrate conservation and use of natural
resources and to apply principles of ecosystem conservation and these laws are still in place. A specific
law for nature protection applicable throughout the new state of the Slovak Republic has been drafted and
is awaiting approval in the near future. As yet unresolved is the question of the return of land to former
private owners (under the Restitution Law) which might result in the introduction of incompatible land
uses in the present parks and reserves. Land is in the most part under state ownership, but where private
enclaves occur in protected areas, the owners are obliged to conform to legal requirements such as the
existing forest (harvesting) plans. Owners that are successful with a claim for ownership are to be
compensated where their land is included in a protected area, but as yet the method and amount of this
compensation has not been determined. Additionally if the landholder allows public access they are
entitled to be exempt from land taxes. The impact of such measures is not clear at this time and will only
be of significance in forested areas where timber values might be high, if harvesting was ever allowed.



Nonetheless, this confusion, possible lack of control and potential financial burden is of great concern
to the Department of Nature and Landscape Conservation.
1.17          Protected areas are declared according to the State Nature Conservation Act by the Slovak
Ministry of Environment (SME), with the exception of national parks which have to be specially enacted
by the government of the republic. Protected nature monuments and protected natural features are
declared by district councils. (Annex 1 provides a listing of the selected protected areas in the Slovak
Republic.)
1.18         International Activities.   The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance
especially as Waterfowl Habitat (see Box 3) was acceded to on 2 July 1990 by the then government of
Czechoslovakia and included seven sites in the Slovak Republic, one of which is included in the project
areas. The Slovak Republic has since acceded to the convention in it's own right. Four Slovak Republic
sites have been accepted as biosphere reserves by UNESCO under Man and the Biosphere Program
(MaB). The two most recently established sites (Tatras and Eastern Carpathians) are supported under
this project because of their linkage to protected areas in adjacent countries.
Box 3 Ranisar Convention
This Convention provides a framework for international cooperation for the conservation of wetland!
habitats. It places general obligations on contracting party states relating to the conservation of
wetlands throughout their* territories, with special obligations pertaining to those wetlands which
; have been designated to the List of Wetlands of International Importance. Each State Party is
obliged to list at least one site. Wetlands are defined by the convention as: areas of marsh, fen,
peatland or water, whether natural or artificial, permanent or temporary, with water that is static
or flowing, fresh, brackish or salt, including areas of marine waters, the depth of which at low tide
does not exceed six meters.
Sectoral Issues
1.19         Administration and Management The Ministry of Environment is the central authority
for management of the environment, as well as for coordination and control of the environmental
functions of other ministries. It is responsible for water, air and nature protection as well as land
protection aspects of agriculture and forestry and mineral resource protection.
1.20          From 1993 a Slovak Agency for Enviromnent (Slovenskd agentura zivotnehoprostredia)
was established. It is now been placed in the organizational structure of the Ministry of Environment
managed by the Department of Nature and Landscape Protection (see Figure 2). The main aim of the
Agency in the field of nature conservation is to advise on the selection, management and use of protected
natural areas. It assists with wide-ranging research on threats to protected areas, monitoring, basic
inventory work for each protected area and prepares management plans and "methodologies" on
monitoring and management issues.  It prepares detailed zoning, ecological information and
recommendations for each protected area suitable for use in management planning.
1.21          An education center at Gbelany has been established as an in-service training center. The
total number employed in protected areas management and administration are some 1,400 (including
foresters from the Tatransky National Park) in the Slovak Republic.



Figure 2. Organizational structure of the
Slovak Ministry of Environment
Ministry of Environment Protection
Minister
S i' 4  -t,_.p tt! j:- r:    -  r  ai-,1 ., j. '!1lu>38  District
Offlces
Nature Protection              Water & Air    |         vom t               Ecological e  ( 5ogical
Protection             Technology             Policy          Research & Survey
Nature and Landscape- |7{         3              Industrial |co
_   Sa   sProtection t                              Accidents o N           Poly P
*  Slovak Institute of Regional Planniogicg
gSpecies~~~~~~~~~g Proect                                                          Factors  Wut
_Protected ficoSystem Areas                                      _Econ,omic
Divisio                                                     Analysis               |Gooia  tt
Environmentall                                  Gelgia .   S. t
_  Impact   |                                    Admilnist rat i~non
Assessment
I                                                                          I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~InventoryI
I         .                                                                 I a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cassification|
1<  Regional Planning & Building |                     A   Retations|               Committee|
National Parks (3)
Nature Protection Centers (5) 
L   |Slovak Institute of Nature Protection|
:   {Slovak Institute of Regional Planning]|



- 8 -
1.22         The administration and management of national parks tends to be undertaken by the park
authorities themselves, although it can vary from site to site. The authorities are answerable directly to
the Slovak Ministry of the Environment. The exceptions are the Tatras and Pieniny National Parks which
are subordinate to the Ministry of Land Management, Forestry Section.
1.23         Protected landscape areas (CHKOs) are administered by Slovak Agency for Environment
(Figure 2). Each protected landscape area has an average of four to ten professional staff who are
principally involved in planning, management, monitoring and educational work. Research in CHKOs
is conducted by the Slovak Academy of Science or by the Slovak Agency for Environment.
1.24         In 1991 in the Slovak Republic, national parks received SK 67 million and protected
landscape areas received SK 6 million.
1.25         In 1958, the National Museum Society, the first non-governmental nature conservation
organization was founded but later disbanded and subsequently replaced in 1969 by the Slovak Union of
Nature and Landscape Protectors (Slovensky zvdz ochrancov prirody a krajiny) (SZOPK). Membership
is open to individuals, local groups, youth organizations and collective members. These groups often
take responsibility for the management of nature reserves and monuments.
1.26         On the basis of a June 1990 document The Environment in Czechoslovakia, a draft
Concept of State Ecological Policy was produced. This was followed in July 1990 by the document
Ecological Programs and Projects, Czech and Slovak Federative Republic which added more details to
the draft policy and described specific objectives, including the development of national and international
parks. These frameworks, as they relate to the Slovak Republic, are being adapted to the new political
situation and a national conservation strategy is also being prepared.
1.27         Other Relevant information Special governmental decisions were passed in 1976 and 1978
regarding environmental education, which was to be promoted at all levels in both republics. In the
Slovak republic, one university offers courses on "Protection of the Natural Environment." There is a
conservation training center established at Gbelany near Zilina. Tourism is a major element of national
park interests. Selected protected areas are used very extensively for educational purposes and have
visitor centers and nature trails.
C. LESSONS LEARNED FROM SIMILAR PROJECTS
1.28         This will be the first World Bank environmental operation in the Slovak Republic and as
such there are no direct lessons from previous efforts. Nonetheless, a number of the GEF biodiversity
projects elsewhere in the region have been initiated, are at advanced stages of preparation or approved.
These GEF projects were purposely designed to have innovative components and it is premature to draw
lessons from any similarities at this time. Nonetheless, there are a number of recurring issues:
a. Relationships with surrounding communities need to be fostered through participation in
planning and management and the development of sustainable land uses for biodiversity
adjacent to the national parks and protected areas;
b. Co-ordination with other countries is needed since wildlife and pollutants do not respect
political boundaries, and management systems need to be applied over complete
ecosystems; and



- 9 -
c. Managers, administrators and local communities need professional development to enable
them to effectively develop skills to manage, plan and administer land and usage in a
sustainable way as well as achieving biodiversity protection objectives.
11. THE PROJECT
A. ORIGIN AND RATIONALE
2.1          The Slovak Republic has been developing a broad and comprehensive approach to the
conservation of natural resources as part of the former Czechoslovakia, and most recently as a country
in its own right. This is demonstrated by its current efforts to establish new legislation, international
agreements, policies and practices to deal with the serious environmental problems in the region. It is
also shown by its active cooperation with border countries to establish international biosphere reserves
and functional networks of protected areas.
2.2          In 1989, important cooperative efforts were greatly stimulated by the Initiative,
"Ecological Bricks for Our Common House of Europe, " which was coordinated by the WWF-Austria and
supported by a large group of European NGOs. The Initiative identified 24 internationally significant
areas in Europe in need of protection following the removal of border restrictions and requiring
international coordination for successful biodiversity protection. The sites chosen for this GEF project
are among those areas.
2.3          The proposed Slovak biodiversity protection project has several innovations to protect the
endangered ecosystems in the selected zones:
a. Each of the proposed ecosystem reserve zones in the Slovak project are in transboundary
areas. Transboundary integrated conservation approaches would be established over
strictly protected cross border areas. Development of a coordinated protection strategy
involving five impacted countries, the Slovak Republic, Poland, Ukraine, the Czech
Republic and Austria will be challenging politically and scientifically, nonetheless, this
project will initiate these efforts;
b. Funds provided under the Project will contribute to the first three-country biodiversity
protection trust to be organized under a GEF supported project (the Foundation for
Eastern Carpathian Biodiversity Conservation, FECBC);
c. The project proposes to examine the opportunities for direct economic measures to
maintain visitation levels below the carrying capacity of the resource.
d. The project initiates a major effort to ensure the longer term financial sustainability of
these protected ecosystems through the planning and development of recurrent funding
mechanisms, such as, entrance and user fee systems and through encouraging additional
contributions to the FECBC (the MacArthur Foundation of Chicago has indicated their
interest in matching the GEF allocation); and
2.4          The project will complement other activities such as a Bank-financed forestry development
loan (3641-POL) and GEF-supported protection activities (Poland in the Tatras and Bieszady National
Parks, in Ukraine Carpathians Biosphere Reserve and with the Czech and Austrian Republics in the



- 10-
Morava floodplain) all of which abut the Slovak Republic reserves proposed for support under this GEF
project.
2.5          This project shows many features with one supported by the GEF in the Czech Republic
as both projects were designed for the former Czechoslovakia and many of the issues and approaches
were by necessity quite similar. Given this background, opportunities will be taken to maximize the
sharing of information and experience between project managers in each of the Republics.
B. PROJECT AREAS
2.6          Three trans-border areas (see Maps 1 to 4) each of which has unique and important
biodiversity values have been selected for implementation of a range of activities to meet specific issues.
Given that these are border areas, the initiatives developed will as far as practicable, be communicated
and discussed with the appropriate management agencies. The MaB framework among others will be
used as a mechanism for this communication. The overall approach will be to have the contiguous areas
managed on a similar basis. This will be particularly important for activities such as wildlife
management, monitoring of pollution, reforestation, economic activities in buffer zones, conservation of
genetic material and visitor management.
2.7          A detailed description of each of the three areas (Morava, East Carpathians and the
Tatras) can be found in the Annexes. They are discussed in summary below.
Tatras
2.8           Location. The Tatras which is part of the Western Carpathians Mountain system, is
located in the north of the Slovak Republic along the border with Poland (see Map 2).
2.9          Key Characteristics. The Tatras are the highest mountain range in the Slovak Republic,
with 20 peaks rising to more than 2,500 meters above sea level, and more than 100 lakes of glacial
origin. The Tatra National Park is administered by the MLM Forestry Section, which also administers
the nearby Pieniny National Park. Pieniny National Park is located to the east of the Tatras, along the
Dunajec River which forms the Slovak Polish border. This spectacular, biologically diverse mountain
and canyon area, was the first bilateral protected area in Europe.
2.10         The flora of the Tatras National Park contains more than 1300 species of vascular plants
and Pieniny National Park has about 1,100 vascular plant-species. Both areas contain many rare and
endemic plants. Wildcat and lynx, brown bear and wolf are still found in the natural mixed fir-beech
forests. Chamois and marmots are also present in the Tatras.
2.11         While the Tatra National Park has high biodiversity, its history of research and
management can make a significant contribution to the network of protected areas, especially in the
Carpathian Mountains. The Association of Carpathian National Parks (which is a network of parks in
the Carpathian region of Slovakia, Poland, Ukraine and Hungary) is located here. The information and
examples that the Tatras can provide to the development of model conservation programs in these areas
is considerable. An important objective of the GEF project would be to strengthen the research and
monitoring program, and the analysis and presentation of data, so that the area can further develop its
role as an international center.



- 11 -
2.12          As one of the principal developing destinations for tourism in Eastern Europe, the Tatras
offer unique opportunities to evaluate critical issues like carrying capacity and restoration.
2.13          Principal Issues. The most significant negative impacts on biodiversity in the Tatras are
the result of air pollution, and inadequately planned and controlled development, especially for tourism
and recreation such as skiing. There are also negative effects from agricultural and forestry activities.
East Carpathians
2.14          Location. The Eastern Carpathians is located in northeastern Slovakian bordering Poland
and Ukraine (see Map 3).
2.15          Key Characteristics. The Eastern Carpathian is especially significant because it is one
of the least disturbed areas in Slovak Republic. Large forests cover two thirds of the area and there are
stands of primeval beech and associations of mixed beech and fir. There are also extensive mountain
grassy meadows. These different vegetation types provide habitats for a large diversity of species as well
as for several rare and endemic species. The area also has one of the largest populations of wolves Canis
lupus still sighted in Europe. Lynx and brown bear Ursus arctos populations are also significant, and
occasionally European bison Bison bonasus migrate into the area from Poland. These species have a
great appeal to the general public. This popularity, and the ease with which any measures for their
conservation can be publicized, provide a ready means to convey broader conservation issues.
2.16          Significant progress has been made toward international cooperation to conserve the
Eastern Carpathians through an international declaration signed in September 1991 by the environment
ministers of the Slovak Republic, Ukraine and Poland. This declaration provides for cooperative and
coordinated activities by the three nations to manage and protect more than 163,000 ha of the Eastern
Carpathians as an international biosphere reserve and establishes a tri-national biosphere reserve
Coordinating Committee. The Protocol agreement also establishes the basis for this co-ordination as it
calls for:
a. Zoning of the area according to UNESCO MaB biosphere reserve principles and
promotion of activities in the transition and buffer zones which do not create;
b. Promoting and ensuring cooperative scientific research and management for the protection
and restoration of the Eastern Carpathian ecosystems; and
c. Organizing uniform bio-monitoring and protection of migratory animal species.
2.17          To assist in promoting and ensuring cooperative efforts to manage and conserve the
biodiversity of the Eastern Carpathian ecosystems called for in the declaration, a GEF biodiversity project
has been designed to provide assistance to the Ukraine to carry out its part of the cooperative activities.
Components of this program are described in Annex 5.
2.18          Principal Issues. This area has outstanding potential for biodiversity conservation if it
is properly planned and developed. There is a need for restoration of shrub and tree vegetation along
streams in farmland, restoration of bio-corridors, erosion control, and conversion to better and more
ecologically sound farm practices. Participation in planning is essential. Ecotourism and forest
silviculture, for example, can be of great benefit to the region if it is sustainable and carefully developed
on ecologically sound principles and themes.



- 12 -
Morava
2.19         Location. The project activities, which will be carried out in close cooperation with the
Czech Republic and Austrian authorities including the WWF owned nature reserve in Austria, will be
focused along the Morava River from Tvrdonice south to Bratislava, including the tributary Rudava
River. It adjoins the Czech Palava project in the confluence of the Dyje and Morava Rivers (See map
4). All of these rivers are tributaries of the Danube.
2.20         Key Characteristics. In the agricultural landscapes of the Central European lowlands, there
are remnants of natural ecosystems with a high diversity of plant and animal life. Some of the best of
these habitats are found in the flood plains of the Dyje and Morava Rivers. A large part of these
wetlands are covered with flood plain forests -- one of the largest and finest being located along the
confluence of the Dyje and Morava Rivers.
2.21         Over the last millennium there have been changes in the Dyje and Morava floodplain, but
radical changes have taken place since the 1960's. The floodplain forests have been reduced. The water
table has dropped and spring floods have been interrupted. Large areas of meadow were ploughed up
and converted into arable fields. The once continuous flood plain area has been transformed into a
mosaic of remnant natural areas and areas of intensive management. Some stretches of natural river beds
and fluvial processes remain, however, especially in the Morava River and its tributary, the Rudava.
2.22          The Rudava River is a small tributary of the Morava River in Western Slovak with a total
length of about 45 km. This river and its valley contain a rich variety of natural habitats, especially in
the middle section, where the stream has never been regulated. Here there are sand dunes adjoining
floodplain forests, peat bogs, meadows, marshes, and other wetland types. According to recent surveys,
505 species of vascular plants (101 of which are on the Red Data List of the Czech and Slovak Flora),
more than 30 fish species (5 on the Red Data List), 12 species of amphibians (4 on the Red Data List),
and 200 bird species (13 on the Red Data List).
2.23          Several scientific institutions and a highly professional group of scientists from both the
Slovak and Czech Republics are engaged in efforts to develop strategies for environmentally suitable
stream, forest, agricultural and tourist management practices. The Czech GEF Palava project and this
Slovak Morava project will assist in bringing these various efforts together, and will also provide support
for developing environmental education programs with the communities in the region.
2.24          The southern section of the Slovak component is an exception. This area close to
Bratislava was effectively locked up from research and the general public by an extensive system of
notorious border fences and military patrols. It has only been since 1990 that the area has been open and
researchers have found major populations of hitherto rare species associated with the wetlands and the
remnant mature floodplain forests. Unfortunately, with the removal of restrictions, impacts from
agriculture and indiscriminate recreation have been severe even in such a short time and actions supported
by this GEF project will provide the only opportunity for protection of the area before it is degraded.
2.25          Principal Issues. The major issues for the region include: floodplain forest conservation
and restoration, water regime management, agricultural practices, and over commercialization of the area
form undirected and uncontrolled tourism. The principle objective will be to develop scientifically based
and ecologically sound forest, stream, agricultural, tourist management and sustainable development
practices for the region, with development of the then Palava, Dyje and Morava areas as a model for the
region.



- 13 -
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
2.26         The project has been designed following a series of workshops in the Slovak Republic
with management and research personnel and the Slovak Ministry of Environment Department of Nature
and Landscape Conservation. It is designed to provide key interventions and develop institutional
capacities and the focus of activity will be on three areas.
2.27          The project design reflects the need to address the innovations implicit in developing
sustainable activities to maintain broad ecosystems and not just protected areas per se. The objective of
this project is to provide demonstrations to protect and strengthen forest, meadow and wetlands habitats
and related ecosystem biodiversity in the Slovak Republic. The project will:
a. Foster systems of financially sustainable biodiversity protection in the Slovak Republic
through the introduction of user fees, related charges for visitors and concessions to
manage the areas within their determined "carrying capacities;" and to evaluate the role
that economic mechanism might play in keeping visitation to levels below identified
carrying capacities;
b. Protect three zones of representative threatened ecosystems; meadows (Tatras), wetlands
(Morava Floodplain),and mountain forests (Eastern Carpathians);
c. Support the activities of three transnational biodiversity protection networks: Eastern
Carpathians Biosphere Reserve (Poland, the Slovak Republic and Ukraine); the Tatra
Biosphere Reserve (Poland and the Slovak Republic); and the Morava Floodplain Forests
and Wetlands (the Slovak and Czech Republics and Austria); and
d. Develop an integrated development and conservation program to address priority issues
such as privatization.
Management Plans
2.28          In each of the selected areas management plans are at various stages of preparation or
acceptance (See Table 2). The project components either support the implementation and expansion of
the existing management plans or facilitate the basis for sound and integrated planning in the future.
Management planning is not a goal in itself, and the key to successful implementation is the development
of the necessary ownership and support by the constituencies in the planning process. This involvement
is crucial and not necessarily a successful feature of management planning in the past. Therefore,
components of the project are also directed to integrating planning outside the strictly protected areas in
consultation with affected communities and interests.



- 14 -
Table 2. Status of Management Plans in Project Areas
AREA          PLAN STATUS                   COMMENT
Tatras        There are three existing plans    These plans are in need of review and the
(Territory plan, Nature       government has accepted the commitment for
Conservation Plan [19781, and   developing a plan for the biosphere reserve.
Nature and Conservation Care   The project will assist this planning process,
Program [1991]) as well as a    particularly for the buffer areas in the
Forest Management Plan for    development of strategies and the resulting
1987-1996. Land planning      action plans. Current uses in the National Park
regulations introduced in 1986   and surrounding areas (principally the Biosphere
have resulted in the gradual  Reserve) will be reviewed in this process. As
implementation of visitor     well, modern concepts of restoration ecology
restrictions and reduction of  will be introduced with the forest restoration
access. The current forest    component of the project.
management in the biosphere
reserve is based on common
forestry methods that aim to
promote and restore the natural
forest condition
East          A plan has been drafted for the  The GEF project directly supports the
Carpathians   Landscape Protected Area.     development of an up to date management plan
(1993)                        as the establishment of the national park is
subject to legislative approval (to be considered
and passed early in the project).
Morava        WWF (Austria) has developed   The GEF project is designed to further this
a basis for planning          planning. It should be noted that this area is
documentation adequate for    close to a large population center and that
this stage of the Landscape   encroachment and use pressures will be very
Protected Area.               significant. The project supports planning
measures relying on land use regulation and
control mechanisms to be established and
supported by the project.



- 15 -
D. DETAILS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Biodiversity Protection Program                                                   ($729,800)
(1) Planning - East Carpathians ($60,000)
2.29          This component will include development of an overall management strategy for the tri-
national biosphere reserve, and the development of a management plan for the Eastern Carpathians
Biosphere Reserve'.
2.30          The first step is to develop an overall management strategy for the tri-national biosphere
reserve with biodiversity conservation as a primary goal. This would be in accordance with the IUCN
guidelines for promoting effective management of trans-frontier reserves, and the agreement of the
Biosphere Reserve Coordination Committee to draw up programs for management, protection and
utilization of the proposed biosphere reserve. This strategy would provide the guidance needed for all
activities which should be cooperative, including information gathering, data collection and management,
and appropriate GIS (Geographic Information Systems). In this way management plans for the Eastern
Carpathians Protected Landscape Area in the Slovak Republic, the Bieszczady National Park in Poland
and the protected area in Ukraine, will be developed in a coordinated manner.
2.31          To help ensure this coordination the preparation of the overall strategy for the biosphere
reserve and the management plans for each of the areas will be undertaken under the general guidance
of the committee to be established for the administration of the tri-national Trust to be established by this
project and with the help of the respective MAB National Committees. This approach would also be an
appropriate means to plan the role of this tri-national reserve and its national components in the regional
Association of Carpathian National Parks. This overall strategy for the Proposed Tri-National Biosphere
Reserve will establish guidelines for inventory, information management, research, monitoring activities,
and the development of plans for regional tourism. This tri-national strategy would establish the
guidelines and general principles for developing management plans for the protected areas in the
respective countries.
2.32          The second step is the preparation of a detailed management plan for the anticipated
Eastern Carpathians National Park. This would involve the establishment of an interdisciplinary team
of experts (national and international), establishment of Terms of Reference and include public and local
community participation. It also include costs associated with base mapping of the area.
2.33          The Project will finance consultant services for the development of a management
strategy, workshops, production of planning materials, base mapping and the costs associated with
organizing meetings with local communities and NGO's.
(2) Biodiversity Management ($521, 700)
2.34          Forest Restoration - East Carpathians ($111,000) This component would support ongoing
forest restoration activities and include an assessment of the silvicultural system which will be required
to develop a sustainable forest ecosystem and restoration of priority sites.
I/ New legislation which includes the establishment of the East Carpathians National Park and is being considered.



- 16 -
2.35          The GEF will support the design and research to finalize the silvicultural systems for
developing sustainable forest ecosystems. It will attempt to "reconstruct" or restore the original fir beech
stands. It will necessarily investigate the remaining seed sources and their appropriateness to specific
sites. Seed collection in the Slovak Republic, Poland and Ukraine will be required, as well as the
establishment of forest nurseries. Costs of this component will also include the protection of the growing
stock after planting.
2.36          This component will be coordinated by the administration of the Eastern Carpathian
Biosphere Reserve and will involve the Forest Research Institute at Zvolen and the Slovak Ministry of
Land Management, Forestry Section.
2.37          Mountain Meadow Ecosystems - Eastern Carpathians ($34,600) The alpine meadows have
developed after many centuries of agricultural use and have a unique flora composed of many endemic
species particularly in the ecotone or the zone where the meadows grade into forest. Traditional
agriculture is no longer practiced in these areas and the species composition will inevitably change with
a resulting decrease in biodiversity. Two trial management approaches will be implemented: (i)
encouragement of farmers to maintain traditional agriculture in these remote areas; and (ii) mowing the
mountain meadows. Both trials will require evaluation in terms of their long term sustainability.
Therefore, careful consideration is needed in the selection of representative areas for this activity. This
is comparable to a component in the Czech Republic GEF project and linkages will be established
between the two projects to share results and develop the most appropriate techniques. The project will
fund mowing equipment and the operation and maintenance of this equipment during the project period.
In addition, the project will provide incentives to local farmers to maintain traditional alpine meadows.
2.38          Catchment and Water Management - Restoration - East Carpathians ($ 55,000) The
biosphere reserve territory is situated within a flysch4 area. Soil disturbance and spring and summer high
intensity rainfall events are responsible for the development of major erosion problems. The siltation of
streams and land degradation are long term threats to biodiversity. The planning component of the
project will address the causes (forestry) as well as develop guidelines for the sustainable management
of the buffer and transition zones.
2.39          There is a need, however, to restore selected riparian forests.  A precursor to this
restoration is the need to trial and identify the best techniques. This component provides support for an
already established government program and will include an evaluation of the methodologies employed.
The project will fund labor costs, equipment and materials for restoration activities.
2.40          Forest Restoration Tatras ($48, 000) The Tatras National Park has been monitoring and
assessing the changes in the forest from introduced species and at the higher altitudes from air pollution
for a considerable period of time. Although pollution is not as dramatic an impact at this time as other
areas in Eastern Europe, a program for increasing the stability of the forests is required.
2.41          Interspersed with the relatively natural forests are areas of artificial spruce monoculture
forest which because of their low potential for ecological stability (particularly from pollution) are at risk.
The tasks of reconstructing the forests at the Tatras needs genetic resources of good quality. The present
administration has resources for collection and selection of genetic material but is seriously hampered in
its forest restoration activities by a lack of appropriate storage and extraction equipment. Therefore this
4/ Flysch: a thick and extensive deposit largely of sandstone that is formed adjacent to a rising mountain belt.



- 17 -
component will fund essential extraction and storage equipment as well as improvements to a greenhouse.
The latter will include the investigation of the benefits or otherwise of potted material for reforestation.
The project will fund equipment, such as a cone dryer, seed storage and extraction and improvements
to a greenhouse.
2.42         Restoration - Morava ($256,000) Since the beginning of this century the Morava river
and its tributaries have been regulated and their original water regime has been changed. These changes
have had significant effects on the stability of the ecosystems (e.g. river bed erosion, water quality and
reduction of the water table).
2.43         Water management authorities in Austria have started restoration of original flow
conditions to prevent further deterioration and to restore the biological communities of the flood plain.
2.44          This component will establish a series of model projects to help the Slovak authorities to
determine the techniques, potentials and benefits of restoration of the Morava River ecosystems. The
project will fund equipment ($36,000), incremental labor costs ($30,000), consultant services ($20,000),
materials, site preparation and planting stock ($20,000) and limited civil works ($150,000). It will
include six activities:
a. restoration of the water regime (3 sites),
b. restoration of wetlands habitats,
c. restoration of river vegetation corridors for the migration of terrestrial and aquatic
species,
d. management of selected meadows to include non-arable activities to restore and maintain
biodiversity and at the same time enable sustainable economic use,
e. rehabilitation and restoration of forest with natural forest compositions, and
f. ex-situ conservation of locally endangered species.
2.45          Planning - Morava ($17, 000) In order to ensure that the activities of restoration will have
a long term viability, the areas surrounding protected reserves require planning and land use zoning. This
component will fund this planning activity including the assessment of the biotypes and their appropriate
land use. The project would finance a biotype mapping program ($12,000) and a planning workshop
$5,000.
(3) Professional Development and Training ($67,500)
2.46          A number of key training programs have been identified for protected area managers,
specialists and administrators. These include a study tour to investigate mechanisms for the determination
of carrying capacity, a workshop with other GEF project areas on the management and implementation
of GIS and specialist training for GIS managers in conjunction with the already established training center
only recently established by the US Environmental Protection Agency. A number of specialist overseas
opportunities will be provided for development of skills in park management and interpretation as well
as sustainable agriculture. The project would finance some equipment, travel, subsistence and consultant
services. A detailed program with the above elements will be developed by the Project Management Unit
(PMU) at the very beginning of this project.



- 18 -
(4) Systematic Environmental Investigation, Applied Research and Monitoring at Tatras ($80,600)
2.47         About twenty scientific institutions are affiliated with the Tatra National Park Research
Center and have contributed to developing its program. The National Park Administration, which has
about twenty employees on its scientific research staff, is a leader in progressive methods of scientific
research and management, not only in the Slovak Republic, but also in the entire Carpathian Mountain
area. The results of work here and the experience that can contribute to biodiversity conservation will
be shared through the networks established by the Carpathian Association of National Parks, the
Association of National Parks and Protected Areas of Slovak, and the MAB Program. An important
objective of this GEF component will be to help establish the Tatra National Park and its Research Center
as an international center to assist and compliment these other organizations in developing scientifically
sound biodiversity conservation programs.  These activities will be integral parts of the Park's
management planning and research objectives. The project would finance equipment for scientific analysis
as detailed in Annex 4. This activity would include:
a. Analyzing bioindicator species including bird feathers and bones, especially for heavy
metals -- the objective of this component will be to analyze various biological samples
to permit comparisons of contemporary and historic levels of environmental contaminants,
especially heavy metals. As such, it is an integral part of environmental monitoring
necessary to indicate the need for management strategies and the extent to which
biological conservation is being achieved in the long-term;
b. Mapping and analysis of mesozoic carbonate rocks and their influence on natural
communities of the karst ecosystems -- Subject of this component will provide an
essential inventory component to indicate the extent, occurrence and importance of the
Karst and related communities;
c. Establishing the Tatra National Park (TNP) Research Center as an international
distribution center for information on current activities in conservation-
enviromnental science -- the TNP Research Center to determine the species ranges of
selected species. The equipment to be purchased under this component will enable an
efficient monitoring program to be undertaken and determination of the ranges of
individual species. The center will also be provided with limited funding to assist the role
of the center as an international research center. This provide the center with the means
to disseminate latest research results, purchase databases only available by subscription
with hard currency and to distribute the results of the Slovak GEF project to other
countries faced with similar issues in the Region; and
d. Telemetric monitoring of critically endangered species - chamois, marmot, wolf and
bear -- this component will determine species ranges, migrations, population dynamics,
and ecological relationships. The objective is to provide key information as base line data
as a means to monitor change.
2.48          Scientists have collected samples of bioindicators consisting of vascular plant species,
lichens and mosses, and bird skins which are contained in the TNP laboratory. Park scientists will
continue sampling and analysis, especially for heavy metal content. The analysis of bird skin collections
will permit comparisons of contemporary and historical levels of metals that are incorporated in the
growing feathers and bones. Approximately 400 skin samples are suitable for chemical analysis, which
will be undertaken in cooperation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service at their Patuxent Center.



- 19 -
2.49   Research and monitoring activities, such as telemetric investigation of endangered animal species,
will be carried out or supervised by the Park staff and by scientists from collaborating research
institutions. International exchange will be arranged in some specialized areas. The TNP would also
subscribe to a number of key data bases and publications presently unobtainable in the country (for
example "Current Contents on Diskette/Agriculture, Biology and Environmental Sciences", from the
Institute for Scientific Information, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania). This information would be shared with
the Carpathian and Slovakian Associations mentioned above.
Conservation Program                                                            ($870,000)
(1) Buffer Zone Strategies - Management and Use ($ 90,000)
2.50         This GEF project will focus on developing models for buffer zone management in the
biosphere reserve target areas, especially in their support zones. The IUCN guidelines for developing
strategies for sustainability, described in Annex 3, will be used in this initiative.
2.51         These activities will be carried out both in the reserves and in their support zones where
human settlements are located, and where certain industrial, farming, forestry and fisheries activities will
continue. In some areas there are centuries old traditions and resource-use systems that can provide
valuable lessons to the development of environmentally sound land-use practices today. The support zones
will serve as experimental areas where human activities can be studied and monitored over time to
determine which human activities are compatible with sustaining natural resources and biodiversity, and
which must be changed. Some known extractive technologies, based upon minor forest products
(mushrooms, berries, etc.) and conservation compatible silviculture will be fostered with assistance in
relevant land-use planning and management. In some areas, restoration of habitats will also be carried
out as experimental and demonstration activities.
2.52         The buffer zone strategies for management and use would be designed and implemented
under the auspices of the Ministry of the Environment and the Slovak MaB Committee. IUCN, WWF
and an applied sciences working group constituted through the World Bank will sponsor a conference to
develop a plan for designing and implementing and developing the strategies in each of the three target
areas. The participants would include key officials from each area, NGOs, small-scale land-users and
local government representatives. The purpose of the conference would be to organize the preparation
of the strategies according to the guidelines outlined in Annex 5. These include:
a. Identification of key issues affecting sustainability,
b. Consultation and consensus building,
c. Information assembly and analysis,
d. Policy formulation, and
e. Action planning and implementation.
2.53         The project would finance consultant services and expenses for a planning conference and
preparation of planning materials; planning workshops and community forums in each of three areas-
conducted over a two year period; and equipment, vehicles and incremental labor and management costs
for the start of pilot demonstration projects focused on sustainable development practices in each area.
2.54         An evaluation of the existing inventory of endangered species throughout the Slovak
Republic will also be implemented so that information could be made available for land use planning.



- 20 -
This would serve to inform land use planners and help to determine which species might be in the support
zones of the reserves.
2.55       In the development of the buffer zone strategies attention will be directed to the effects of
land redistribution which could increase settlements and the establishment of enclaves within the core
protected areas, such as the national parks. A 1992 report prepared by IUCN for the European
Programme' indicated that the effects of land redistribution on the maintenance of the integrity of the
protected area system is possibly a substantial biodiversity issue in the Slovak Republic. It should be
noted that a similar situation exists in other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, but the IUCN report
noted that the situation in Slovakia has the potential to be of greater significance, as the method of land
redistribution has not adequately provided for the necessary checks and balances that would seem to be
required or implemented elsewhere, such as in the Czech Republic. As of September 1992, it was
anticipated that 14 million SK compensation per annum (or an amount equivalent to 20 percent of the
government support for national parks and landscape protected areas in 1991) would be needed to pay
for land subject to reprivatization which falls within protected areas. The compensation was likely to be
paid as tax credits rather than cash payments, but the mechanism is still to be worked out.
2.56       The country-wide issue of land redistribution is beyond the scope of this GEF project
although the various planning measures for the selected areas will have to address the effects of changing
land ownership, and possibly use. Nonetheless, of the three project zones, the Tatras National Park can
be identified as an area which provides a striking example of the difficulties that the current situation
places on park management authorities.  Forty-five percent of the National Park is eligible for
reprivatization, a significant proportion of which has been identified as subject to claim by the church;
if a decision is made that the church is, in fact, eligible to claim. This obviously poses a significant
threat to the management policy. The restitution of so much land undermines the essential fabric of the
park, for whereas private lands were bound by restrictive conditions, now they are owned and the use
is negotiable. Although nominally the owners are still held to the Park's management plan, should they
find its provisions unacceptable they can offer it to the Park which can either buy it, lease it or offer
substitute land. This is the paradox, as the legislation designed to protect the Park places it in the
predicament of having to finance massive expenditure to safeguard the boundaries.
2.57       Therefore, this project component will also have a significant activity which addresses the
impact of land redistribution for the Tatras National Park (TNP), its buffer and protected zones as well
as the Eastern Carpathian and Morava project zones. This will entail support for accurate monitoring
of changes in land use and the impact on the protection of biodiversity. It will also evaluate the
effectiveness of any mitigation measures taken at the local level, and as importantly recommend
improvements or further measures.
2.58       The utility and importance of these activities are obvious and would be expected to provide
locally based insight into wider land use issues caused by land redistribution which would not only be
significant for nature protection but also in such sectors as forestry. The approach would create an
awareness of the on-ground problems within the government and the wider international community by
providing real data as the issue develops. Thus, during negotiations, assurances would be sought from
the government, that if claims have been made, or could be made for restitution to previous owners of
parcels or portions of parcels within the three project areas (Tatra, Eastern Carpathians and Morava), that
arrangements would be made to address and, where necessary under Slovak law, to provide restitution
5/ Land Redistribution and Nature Conservation, IUCN, European Programme Discussion Papers 1, September 1992.



- 21 -
to such claimants, that this restitution be done in a manner to ensure the biodiversity protection program
being supported under the Project.
(2) Carrying Capacity and Revenue Generating Mechanisms ($70,000)
2.59          Generally, an area's carrying capacity can be qualitatively described as the level of
visitation tourism without causing unacceptable degradation of the environment. Tourism related carrying
capacity has been broken down into numerous inter-related types. Three important types are:
a. Ecological carrying capacity is the level of visitation beyond which unacceptable impacts
will occur, either from the tourists directly or the amenities they require.
b. Tourist social carrying capacity is the level beyond which visitor satisfaction drops
unacceptably from overcrowding.
c. Host social carrying capacity is the level beyond which unacceptable damage will be
caused to local cultural stability and attitudes towards tourists.
2.60          Many of the selected areas are already experiencing visitation and use beyond the
ecological carrying capacities of the resource (for example, recreation in national park core areas) and
to some extent, their host/social carrying capacities. In the past this was partly as a result of a previous
government strategy to exploit natural areas as a major recreational resource with little concern for the
checks and balances required to protect the resource itself. In recent times, travel restrictions within the
former CSFR at the border areas have been removed, and because of the Slovak Republic's unique central
position with the rest of Europe, it can be expected that major tourism and visitation increases will occur.
Nature-based tourism, conservation and the private market can provide a unique potential to work
together. Private organizations, whether business or NGOs, may be able to play important roles not only
in park-related tourism management, but in complimentary regional tourism. Such decentralization also
would encourage responsible use of the attraction by the tourism industry.
2.61          Most protected areas around the world are maintained with allotments from national
government budgets. Related entrance fees, concessions and taxes, or recurrent funding mechanisms,
go into the general government treasury. If a government is in a position to adequately support
conservation this system works well, but park budgets are often found to be inadequate or reduced as a
result of competition for public sector funding. Therefore given the expected increase in the management
of natural resources in Slovak Republic which will be required, it is urgent that recurrent funding
mechanisms be explored. These recurrent funding mechanisms would not only be for the protected areas,
but for the broad regions in which they are located.
2.62         One source of recurrent funding for resource management costs could be tourism. Studies
to date have shown that appropriate tourism is not a total solution for conservation financing, and other
sources of funding will remain necessary to adequately maintain many of the protected areas which do
not have tourism capability. Tourism will provide little support to sustainable development if the benefits
it generates remain in the hands of the tourist, or in terms of revenue in the tourism industry, or the
government treasuries (local and republic) instead of being channeled back into the protected (park) area
and the surrounding communities. One way of ensuring channeling is by earmarking revenues for park
maintenance and community development.



- 22 -
2.63         Benign land-uses which are scientifically rationalized and closely monitored and which
depend upon the protected areas for water, flora, fauna, infrastructure and expertise should provide a
"beneficiary tax" to the protected area administration based upon the financial strength of the sector. This
will be less than the added value derived from the presence of the state lands providing the valuable
natural resource.
2.64         In the Slovak Republic the implementation of such concepts will require a heavy emphasis
on environmental education requiring adequate planning and coordination between all user groups and
management entities.
2.65         Therefore a major component of this project will be to examine and determine the
appropriate carrying capacities of selected environments and to examine the mechanisms, institutional,
legal and practical arrangements to use economic measures to maintain carrying capacity at an acceptable
level. Such an approach is indeed innovative and is critical to the overall development of sustainable
development component of this project.
2.66         The project will finance equipment, incremental labor and management costs and
consultant services to (i) identify critical habitats currently beyond their carrying capacities; (ii) determine
carrying capacity levels for particular activities and habitats; (iii) determine the measures to ensure that
carrying capacities are not exceeded (including the use of economic measures); and (iv) to implement
these measures in selected locations as demonstrations.
2.67         Expertise for this component will be required from a number of sources: scientists,
economists, local communities and land-users, NGOs and managers. The principle organization
responsible for this component will be the Slovak Institute for Nature Protection. This institute, after
drastic reducing of its staff has become a part of the Slovak Agency for Environment. The Project
Management and Coordinating Unit (PMCU) would contract with them for this component. As a similar
component has been designed for the Czech Republic coordination between the two GEF projects will
be critical.
2.68         This component will comprise a workshop to determine the methodology for the
mechanisms above; a feasibility study to explore the appropriateness of these mechanisms; and pilot
projects in target areas in each Republic.
(3) Foundation for Eastern Carpathian Biodiversity Conservation ($610, 000)
2.69         As a result of the 1991 Agreement of Environmental Ministers representing the three
responsible government ministries in Poland, Slovakia and Ukraine, a working committee of scientists
from each country was established in 1992. Three meetings were held, in Uzghorod, Ukraine (October
1992), Dukla, Poland (December 1992) and Snina, Slovakia (February 1993). Agreement on the basic
organization and purpose of a tri-lateral biodiversity protection program was reached and detailed
proposals to implement this work developed.
2.70         To initiate work on this tri-lateral program a proposal was made to foster a permanent
financial mechanism to sustain biodiversity protection investments in this biosphere reserve. Annual
resources generated from the endowment of the Foundation for Eastern Carpathian Biodiversity
Conservation would be used to foster agreed protection efforts in this transboundary zone. The initial
deposits in this Foundation would be made by the MacArthur Foundation (Chicago, Illinois) of $300,000
with matching funds from the GEF ($300,000). A working draft of the charter of the Foundation has



- 23 -
been developed and is now being finalized. A condition of disbursement of the GEF portion of this
Foundation is submission and approval by the Bank of a satisfactory charter of the Foundation and the
establishment of an account in a financial institution located outside of the territory of the three
beneficiaries under terms of an agreement acceptable to the Bank.
2.71         The initial work program (first year, 1993/1994) of the Foundation agreed in February,
1993 at Snina, Slovakia would involve:
a. Detailed mapping of the transboundary area to 1:50,000 scale from maps provided from
each of the three countries;
b. Working Group meeting to review a listing of all completed and underway applied
research undertaken by each of the three countries and exchange of these papers.
Development of a joint methodology for prioritizing future applied research;
c. Preparation of a draft Management Plan for future biodiversity protection efforts for this
area; and
d. Development of joint agreed Geographic Information Standards for the tri-lateral area and
adoption of such standards in national GIS work.
Institutional Infrastructure Improvement Program                                  $885,800
(1) Protected Area Facilities ($224,800)
2.72         Park Radio Communications Systems at Eastern Carpathians and Tatras ($59,800) A
basic need for effective conservation is to strengthen the Park's radio communication system. The
objective of this component is to assist with the establishment of a radio system to enable the management
organization to effectively manage the area. The project will fund equipment and related consultant design
services. The equipment is detailed at Annex 4.
2.73         Nature Center at Tatras ($35,000) The Nature Center at Tatranska Lomnica is to be
completed by local workers under the supervision of professional Park staff. The extension program in
environmental education and training will be assisted by the NGO networks which have their headquarters
in the Park. The project will fund audiovisual equipment, materials and incremental labor costs to
complete the nature center.
2.74         Education and Research Facility at Eastern Carpathians ($130,000) A facility in the Nova
Sedlica village will be built and equipped for as a field research facility and as a lodging site for visiting
scientists, park officials and seasonal workers engaged in conservation management. As there is no
accommodation in close proximity, this component will assist with the support for the management
planning component. A small visitor information center will also be established and equipped. The
project will cover designs, construction costs, fitting out and two years of operation and maintenance.
2.75         Legal Status and Land Ownership in Project Areas (Morava, Eastern Carpathians and
Tatras). The legal status of the Tatras is covered by the Tatra National Park Act issued by the Slovak
National Council in 1948. Lands within this Park are owned by state and non-state organizations, as
well. The status of the lands in the Eastern Carpathians is that of "protected landscape area" in



- 24 -
accordance with the current Nature Conservation Act. This area has been proposed for a National Park,
but the legislation has yet to be passed. However, until this Legislation is passed, there is the possibility,
while remote, that previous owners of parcels within the boundaries of this Park, may press claims for
restitution of these parcels or for monetary compensation in lieu thereof. Similarly, for the Morava
Floodplains, which also has a status of the protected landscape area, claims could be pressed for
restitution, either in parcels or in monetary compensation, from previous owners of portions of the
Morava Floodplains. Thus during negotiations, assurances were obtained to ensure that Project activities
are carried out only on land owned by the Government or on land to which the Government has rights
under long-term contractual arrangements consistent with the objectives of the Project. The regional
offices of the Ministry of Environment by law approve such investments and would only do so provided
they are consistent with the above paragraph.
(2) Computerization, Monitoring and Data Management ($435,000)
2.76          Land resource management requires a knowledge of the resource. This must include
knowledge of the changes that are occurring over time and the systems that maintain the resource.
Therefore, the development of an integrated system of monitoring and data management to support the
proper management of specific areas, to assess the causative agents of biodiversity conservation problems,
and to provide an on-going assessment of the successes and failures of the programs being implemented,
is a high priority if biodiversity values are to be maintained in the longer term. An ideal system,
including GIS capability will need to be focussed on three levels: local, national and international. A
GIS capability enables the manager to model planning decisions (e.g. sighting a facility or prioritizing
a fragment corridor conservation system) and examine the interrelationships between specific resource
elements. With a sufficient data set, a GIS can model long-term effects as well as provide key indications
of management strategies and their likelihood of success or failure. At the very least, GIS capability
enables resource information to be overlaid in a spatial context and provides a mechanism for assessing
environmental interrelationships over time.
2.77          Assistance provided by a 1991 UNDP Project entitled "Development of Integrated
Information Systems for the Environment of CSFR" resulted in:
a. The identification of the main institutional responsibilities and duties in the field of
environmental information and the measures needed to fulfill these tasks,
b. The establishment of a framework for the role of the Slovak Environmental District
Offices in the integrated environmental information system in the Slovak Republic, and
c. The establishment of a framework for the role of the Regional environmental executive
bodies and the regional pollution control bodies in the integrated environmental
information systems of the Slovak Republic.
2.78          This component will implement the framework developed by the UNDP project. It is clear
that funding is required to implement the development of on-ground programs at a local and republic level
and specifically those addressing biodiversity protection, rather than those directed at broader
environmental issues. In addition, at the local level monitoring has normally been conducted for many
years but data are dispersed in a number of locations and facilities do not exist for the meaningful analysis
of these data.



- 25 -
2.79          A similar situation exists with thematic and spatial data critical in a variety of land use
and development decisions. Given the expected major changes in tenure and land use in the Slovak
Republic, there is a need to provide GIS facilities in the very near future to assist in meeting the short-
and medium-term  land use planning challenges.  Challenges that if not met, will threaten these
internationally significant biodiversity resources.
2.80         This part of the GEF project is designed to build on these initiatives. It will concentrate
on developing systems in the three protected areas, and at the State level, through the appropriate
coordinating institutions. It will therefore require the purchase of equipment and software, the design
of compatible systems after determination of specific priority needs and the training of key personnel
(system managers, operators and land managers) in the development and operation of integrated data
management and monitoring.
2.81          The objectives are to give support for decision and policy making, with respect to nature
conservation, and land use, and at the same time ensure that compatibility is achieved in the development
of transferable and priority data sets between all participants.
2.82          Costs of the development of this integrated system of monitoring and data management
for the Slovak Republic includes strengthening the conservation data base and development of
information-data management systems (technical assistance, training, and equipment).  A major
component will be the establishment of a regional system already identified by the Ministry as a priority
site in the high Tatras. Monitoring will include abiotic and biotic components and support for this
regional initiative will provide equipment and training. Smaller system components will be provided at
the Ministry (principally the Department of Nature and Landscape Conservation) and at the other project
areas. The project will fund computers and GIS equipment and supporting training and staff development.
See details in Annex 4.
2.83          One further innovative feature of this component will be to establish an appropriate
computer based information exchange system (E-Mail or INTERNET). This will enable a far more
effective transfer of data and other information between the various sections involved in the project areas,
not only in Slovak but also internationally. This will enable the project results to be easily transmitted
to all interested parties as and when they are to hand.
(3) Joint Scientific Advisory Committees - Morava, Tatras and East Carpathians ($45,000)
2.84          Since the above activities have to be planned and carried out in a deliberate, systematic
manner with the Czech and Austrian authorities for Morava, and with Polish and Ukraine authorities for
the East Carpathian and with Polish authorities for the Tatras, the GEF project will provide modest
support for the establishment of joint scientific and advisory committees which would make
recommendations to the participating governments regarding common conservation and management
objectives for the region. In the case of the East Carpathians, this would be linked with the activities of
the Trust. The committees will also assist in evaluation and implementation of project activities.
(4) Environmental Non Government Organizations Small Grants Program ($100,000)
2.85          After consultation with the environmental NGO community, a Small Grants Program was
identified to support the fledgling NGO community and to implement small biodiversity protection
projects. The PMCU will administer the Grants program. Individual projects will be selected after a
competitive process. A five-person advisory committee would be established for project selection and



- 26 -
evaluation. This committee would include representatives of the Nature and Landscape Conservation
department, an internationally recognized Slovak biodiversity academic chairman and a member of an
international NGO organization. A series of small workshops in regional centers would be held to
develop the program and develop proposal preparation skills.
2.86         It would be expected that between 15 and 20 small grants would be made. These projects
would be directed at innovative approaches to biodiversity conservation in the country. Criteria for the
program are detailed in Annex 6.
(5) Project Management ($90,000)
2.87         To undertake the project a Project Management Unit will be established in the office of
the State Secretary in the Slovak Ministry of Environment. Project funds will be provided to establish
this small office facility as well as staffing. A Project Manager will be appointed and will be responsible,
along with the three protected area managers, for the conduct of the project.
2.88         As well, one person will be funded at each of the project areas. This person will be
responsible to the park director or reserve manager and administer the project. Assistance will be
provided for office facilities (fax, equipment and furniture). See Annex 4, page 11 for cost details.
E. PARTICIPATION BY NGOs AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES IN PROJECT ACTlVITIES
2.89         The development of sustainable development strategies will involve local communities and
NGOs as well as the international NGO community. This will be a significant feature of the project and
will enable effective implementation of project components.
2.90         The direct support for the tri-national Trust will enable local participation and coordination
of management activities within the forest ecosystems of the three countries. The Trust will support local
NGO activity to generate community support for this management.
2.91         The small grants program will be an element of direct support to the NGO community.
A similar program is being included in the related GEF project for the Czech Republic. The Czech
approach will be managed by an international trust with a coordinating office in Prague. Evaluation of
the successes and failures of both programs will provide an indication of the most effective mechanisms
for supporting the national and regional NGO communities.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
2.92         The proposed activity will have a positive environmental impact by  improving the
management and protection of the three selected areas.  Project supported mechanisms for local
commnunity participation in reserve management and planning will be significant components of the
project and social impacts are expected to be positive as well. As this project has no significant negative
environmental impact it is assigned as environmental category C.



- 27 -
G. PROJECT COSTS
Table 3.1 PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Thousands)
Local    Foreign    Total a   %Foreign   %Total
Investment Costs                                    -------(US$ '000)-
A. Biodiversity Protection Program
1. Biodiversity Management        479.2        42.5    521.7        8.1      20.9
2. Planning - East Carpathians      54.0        6.0      60.0       10.0       2.4
3. Professional Dev. & Training     17.5       50.0      67.5      74.1        2.7
4. Env. Investigation, Applied      13.3       67.3      80.6      83.5        3.2
Research & Monitoring
Sub-Total               564.0      165.8    729.8       22.7       29.3
B. Conservation Program
1. Buffer Zone Strategies          76.5        13.5     90.0       15.0       3.6
2. Carrying Capacity, Revenue      163.0        7.0    170.0        4.1        6.8
Mechs., & Demonstration
3. Tri-National Foundation           0.0      610.0    610.0 b    100.0       24.5
Sub-Total               239.5      630.5    870.0       72.5       34.9
C. Institution and Infrastructure
1. Protected Area Facilities      202.3        22.5    224.8        9.8       9.0
2. Computers & Data Management      87.0      348.0    435.0       80.0       17.4
3. Joint Scientific Advisory Committee    0.0  45.0     45.0      100.0        1.8
4. Project Management               60.0       30.0      90.0      33.3        3.6
5. NGO Small Grants Program         91.0        0.0      91.0       0.0        4.1
Sub-Total               440.3      445.5    885.8       50.3       35.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                 1,24I.8    1,241.8   2,485.6      49.8     100.0
Physical Contingencies              62.2       31.6      93.8      33.6        3.8
Price Contingencies                 64.8       24.8     89.6       27.7        3.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                  1,379.5    1,297.7   2,670.0a     48,5     107.4
a Total amount does not include complementary Austrian EcoFund activities (US$0.5 million).
b Includes US$10,000 from the MacAuthur Foundation for preparation of Trust Agreement.



- 28 -
H. FINANCING PLAN
2.93   Estimated project financing plan is as follows:
Table 3.2 PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Thousands)
Local    Foreign     Total
Source                      (US$ Million)
GEF Grant                          0.000      2.300     2.300
MacArthur Foundation               0.000      0.310     0.310
Austrian Ecofund                   0.000      0.500     0.500
Government                         0.060      0.000     0.060
TOTAL                           0.060      2.810     3.170
I. PROCUREMENT
2.94   The Grant would finance the procurement of equipment to undertake applied research and
monitoring under the project, including: computers and software for geographic information systems
(GIS); vehicles; communications equipment, such as provision for electronic mail linkages (US$600,000);
civil works (US$200,000); and technical and consultant services (US$800,000) (See Annex 4 for a partial
listing). Procurement of goods and civil works will be carried out in accordance with the Procurement
Guidelines of the World Bank (May 1992).
2.95 International shopping procedures would be used for the items of equipment available off-the-
shelf. These items would be grouped in three separate packages, the value of such contracts will not
exceed US$100,000 per contract (up to an aggregate of US$300,000) and will be procured through
International Shopping on the basis of comparison of at least three price quotations to be obtained from
at least three different countries. Local Shopping procedures based on the comparison of at least three
price quotations obtained from local suppliers, would be used for items of equipment, combined in
approximately 20 packages, available locally at competitive prices. The cost of local shopping packages
would not exceed US$5,000 per contract (up to an aggregate of US$200,000). Contracts for the
following equipment (for example, GIS software or specialist research equipment), which are of
proprietary nature or are subject to licensing arrangements (estimated to cost US$200,000 in the
aggregate), would be awarded following direct negotiations.
2.96   The project includes two small civil works contracts for the Carpathians Education and Research
Center and for the construction works associated with the restoration of the Morava wetlands, the total
estimated cost of which is US$200,000. Civil works for the model restoration projects for the Morava
Floodplains may be carried out by Force Account. A ceiling of $125,000 was established as the amount
eligible to be withdrawn from the grant for this purpose. This force account work, to be conducted by
the Morava "Povodie Dunaja" Agency would be supervised by the Ministry of Environment's regional
office in Morava.



- 29 -
2.97   During negotiations, it was agreed that an agreement would be signed between the PMCU and
this Agency and a copy made available to the Trustee three months before the expected date of
commencement of this force account work. This agreement would specify the works to be done,
provision for accounting of the force account, the breakdown of the construction costs by labor, materials,
management and overhead, and the timetable and supervision of the work.  The comments and
suggestions of the Trustee would be taken into account by the PMCU prior to finalizing the agreement
with the Agency.
2.98   Local Shopping - Goods During negotiations, it was agreed to include a provision to allow local
shopping of up to $5,000 per contract with an aggregate of $200,000 for the Project. This would
necessitate a minimum of three quotations per contract from local suppliers. This provision would greatly
expedite implementation as a number of items of equipment required for the project, are small-value
items, and are now readily available at competitive prices on the local market. Recurrent expenditure
for goods under Category 2 of the Grant Agreement for operation and maintenance purposes estimated
to cost up to the equivalent of $50 per purchase and an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $30,000 may be procured in accordance with the Recipient's standard purchasing practices.
2.99   Local Shopping - Civil Works During negotiations, it was also agreed to include a provision
for local shopping for civil works for the construction of the Education and Research facility in the East
Carpathians project area. For this purpose, Slovakia intends to use local shopping bidding documents
for civil works developed by the World Bank. This contract is expected to cost the equivalent of $US
130,000.
2.100 The project also includes eight short-term assignments (estimated cost US$200,000) for which
individual6 consultants (both foreign and local) would be engaged following the procedures outlined in
the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). The selection of all individual consultants will
be on the basis of comparison of at least three Curriculum Vitae for each selection of an individual
consultant. Four of these contracts are estimated to cost under US$50,000 each. However, regardless
of the value, all consultant contracts would be subject of the Bank's prior review. An amount of
US$600,000 will be needed for further technical assistance associated with training and professional
development, planning and particularly with the development of the conservation program.
2.101 The project will include expenditures on incremental costs of salaries, operating costs and
maintenance (estimated at $700,000) for the one-person coordinating offices in each of the project areas
as well as contracted field staff to implement technical activities.
2.102 Procurement would be carried out by the staff of the Project Management and Coordination Unit
in the Slovak Ministry of Environment. They would also be provided with model invitation documents
for consultant assignments. The estimated procurement plan is outlined in Table 3.3 below.
6/ Given the modest size of these technically focussed assignments, the use of individual, rather than firm-based, consultants is
expected to be more cost effective.



- 30 -
Table 3.3 PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Thousands)
Procurement Method
Items                ICB               Other         Total
(1)  Civil Works                 -                200a           200
-               (200)          (200)
(2)  Goods and Equipment         -               850.0 b        850.0
-               (600.0)       (600.0)
(3)  Technical Assistance        -               870.0 C        870.0
-               (800.0)       (800.0)
(4)  Salaries, Operations        -               1,250.0        1,250.0
and Maintenance             -              (700.0) d      (700.0)
3,170         3,170
TOTAL                                    (2,300)        (2,300)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis are GEF Grant
a/ Civil works will be procured through local competitive bidding.
b/ Includes International and Local Shopping (US$400,000), and Direct Purchase ($US200,000).
c/ Includes professional development training, planning and conservation program (US$800,000) to be procured under Bank's
consultant guidelines.
d/ Includes Project Management Coordinating Unit and contracted field staff.
J.            DISBURSEMENT
2.103         A special account would be established in a bank acceptable to the World Bank. An
initial deposit of $200,000 would be made into this account by the World Bank. All categories of
expenditure (listed in table below) would be eligible for disbursement from the special account. For each
payment made out of the account, project management would furnish to the World Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. The
account would be replenished upon submission of this documentation. Retroactive financing ($25,000)
is included for investments dated from July 1, 1993 for start-up costs of the proposed Project
Management Coordination Unit (PMCU) including professional development training, computer
equipment, and the establishment of an electronic mail system. The Disbursement Plan for GEF grant
funds is as follows:
Table 3.4 DISBURSEMENT PLAN
Amount
Items             (US$ million) % Financing
(1)  Civil Works                   0.2          100 %
(2)  Goods and Equipment           0.5          100 %
(3)  Technical Assistance          0.7          100 %
(5)  Salaries, Operations &
Maintenance                   0.6          100 %
(6)  Unallocated                   0.3
TOTAL                      2.3



- 31 -
K. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
2.104         The most important benefits to biodiversity conservation in the Slovak Republic and
internationally will be in the examples that are developed to illustrate integrated conservation and
development and protected area management for different types of ecosystems in different socio-econornic
situations. This will not be an easy task, but if these urgent problems of the biodiversity loss and the
ecosystems maintenance to produce the goods and services necessary for human well-being are to be
solved, it will only occur through collective contributions of different countries in a deliberate, systematic
approach such as the one proposed in this project.
2.105         The principal benefits are to protect ecological zones of substantial international
importance. The Eastern Carpathians Forest in Poland, Ukraine and in the adjoining Slovak are unique
in Europe and a source of endemic biodiversity. The Morava floodplains and the forests and alpine
meadows of the Tatras have many endemic and representative species and habitats of the regions
ecosystems. All three areas are at threat and the project will initiate programs to protect and restore these
systems.
2.106         Innovation is fostered by the integration of the various levels of biological diversity to
address issues in conservation planning, by the unique (for the Slovak Republic) collaboration of groups
from a variety of interests in addition to foresters in issues of forest planning and management, for the
balancing of ex-situ with in-situ approaches to biodiversity conservation, and by the use of consultation
at the local level in the identification of viable land uses compatible with the preservation of endangered
natural systems.
2.107         There is a demonstration value and replicability through the use of integrated planning,
of new technologies, and the establishment of bilateral and trilateral organizational structures which foster
international resource management approaches. The Project can have significant demonstration value.
2.108         The Project's specific benefits would:
a. Greatly reduce the loss of species and now unique relict ecosystems by conservation and
management of the forest, wetlands and alpine associations, a significant proportion of
which are not yet protected. This GEF Project strategy is important in assuring the
maintenance of the forest and alpine fauna as well as flora.
b. Enable one to restore ecosystems destroyed by either natural or anthropogenic factors by
re-introducing populations into their natural or equivalent habitats after having reduced
the influence of the most striking limiting factors;
c. Stabilize ecosystems by maintaining a high level of genetic variability within species.
Thus the species can adapt themselves to the site, even if the site conditions are changing
to a certain extent; and
L. SUSTAINABILITY
2.109         The Project is designed to foster biodiversity, institutional and financial sustainability.
The long-term viability is achieved through the strengthening of environmental institutions within the
Slovak Republic, including those responsible for the management of the national parks and reserves.



- 32 -
Another facet which is designed to ensure a project legacy are the training and professional development
components. The goal of sustainable revenue generation activities based on user fees, concessions and
leasing arrangements and the establishment of the new Foundation for Eastern Carpathian Biodiversity
Conservation would also support the long term sustainability of these investment efforts. They include
compatible nature and culture-based tourism, the selling of mninor forest products, harvesting game,
balancing uneven-aged, small-scale forest production with natural regeneration, and other economically
sound and environmentally compatible activities.
2.110         The project will also be a catalyst for the establishment of a Trust for recurrent funding
which will enable the results of the project to be maintained over time. Several of the project components
will address mechanisms and economic measures for the sustainability of the protected area as well as
for the surrounding communities.
M. PROJECT RiSKS
2.111         Although there are no major risks, implementation could be affected by some institutional
weaknesses at the level of the Department of Landscape and Nature Protection, instability in sustainable
forest practices, and delineation of authority and responsibility for the areas (e.g. a diffusion of authority
and responsibilities outside the SME).
2.112         There are some institutional risks in that legislation and administrative arrangements are
not complete after the recent establishment of the Slovak Republic. Secondly, there are issues of
privatization to be addressed in the planning processes associated with the project. The project will be
a key in assisting with such adjustments while at the same time ensuring that biodiversity considerations
are appropriately taken into account in this rapid period of change.
111. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1          A small Project Management and Coordination Unit (PMCU) will be organized within
the Office of the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Environment. The satisfactory establishment of
this office would be a condition of grant effectiveness.
3.2          This Unit would coordinate the project activities and cooperate with the following group:
a. the Department of Nature and Landscape Protection (Ministry of Environment)
b. the Department of Ecological Policy (Ministry of Environment),
c. the Department of Ecological Projects (Ministry of Environment),
d. the Department of Monitoring and Information (Ministry of Environment), and
e. the Forestry Section of the Ministry of Land Management.
3.3          In addition, each of the three biodiversity zones included in the project would establish
a one person coordinating office to ensure timely implementation of project activities in Morava, the
Tatras and the Eastern Carpathians.



- 33 -
3.4          The PMCU would be staffed by a Project Coordinator whose qualifications and terms of
appointment would be satisfactory to the GEF, a Deputy Coordinator/Accounts Specialist and a Scientific
Advisor. The incremental costs (salaries, furniture, travel, office equipment) would be reimbursed from
the GEF project.
3.5          Each of the three project zones would also establish a small Joint Scientific Advisory
Committee to review and advise on project progress and technical aspects of these transboundary
protection efforts for the three year implementation period of the GEF project. This Committee would
comprise Slovak as well as international biodiversity scientists. The selection of the scientists for these
three Joint Scientific Committees would be made by the Project Manager in consultation with the
management of each of the three zones (Tatras, Eastern Carpathians and Morava). The costs of these
committee operations (travel, subsistence, hotels) would be reimbursed by the GEF project.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1          During negotiations on the Grant Agreement, assurances would be obtained as follows:
a. Joint Scientific Advisory Committees The Ministry of Environment shall establish Joint
Scientific Advisory Committees no later than December 31, 1993. This would include
the completion of administrative scientific linkages for the joint Palava/Morava area with
the Czech Republic and Austria, as well as for the activities in the Carpathians with
Ukraine and Poland and the activities between Poland and the Slovak Republic in the
Tatras; and
b. Grant Effectiveness   The Grant would be declared effective upon submission of
documentation satisfactory to the Bank that the Project Manager has been appointed and
the Project Management Coordinating Unit (PMCU) has been established in the Ministry
of Environment.
c. Accounts A special account would be established in a financial institution satisfactory
to the Bank for the project. This account would be audited annually by an auditing firm
acceptable to the Bank.
d. Tatras Administration Project activities at the Tatras National Park will be under the
direct administration of the Forestry Section of the Ministry of Land Management.
Financial and administrative arrangements between the SME and the MLM for these
project activities would be subject to agreement
e. Government Budget Support. A commitment will be sought at negotiations that the
Slovak Republic will maintain the current level of financing for the protected areas in real
terms during the life of the project.
f. Land Ownership within Slovak Protected Areas. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from Government to ensure that Project activities are carried out only on land
owned by the Government or on land to which the Government has rights under long-
term contractual arrangements consistent with the objectives of the Project. The regional
offices of the Ministry of Environment by law approve such investments and would only
do so provided they are consistent with the above paragraph.



- 34 -
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT FOR
GLOSSARY
BIoDIvERsrrY:              The variety of life in all its forms, levels and combinations. Includes
ecosystems, habitats, species and genes.
BIosPEw,RE RESERVE:        A unique category of area combining both conservation and sustainable
use of natural resources. Each biosphere reserve conserves a
representative example of a biotic region. There is a core area for strict
protection for a species or habitats surrounded by a support or buffer
zone in which sustained development takes place with the focus on
developing uses and activities which are compatible with sustained
conservation goals.
CARRYING CAPACITY:         Capacity of an area to support the life it contains while maintaining its
productivity, and capability of renewal.
CONSERVATION:                     The management of human use of ecosystems and natural
resources to ensure such use is sustainable.
ECOSYSTEM:                        A  community of organisms together with the non-living
components of their environment. Ecosystem boundaries are
often physical, and are defined so that inputs and outputs can be
determined.
Ex-sITu:                          The management of genetic resources outside of their natural
range.
FLYSCH:                           A thick and extensive deposit largely of sandstone that is formed
adjacent to a rising mountain belt.
GENE BANK:                        A center for the storage and management of genetic resources.
GENETIC REsouRcEs:         The heritable materials contained within and among species that may
provide economic, scientific or societal values.
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
SYSTEM (GIS):                   A system using maps and display of data (Forest cover, pollution
damage, habitats etc.) to overlay, analyze, and display themes to
help solve land management problems.
IN-SITU:                          The management of organisms in their natural state, and habitat,
or within their normal range.



- 35 -
MAN AND THE
BIOSPHERE NAB):           A UNESCO international program of research, training, demonstration
and information dealing with rational conservation and use of natural
resources.
REFORESTATION:                    The introduction of trees and other species on land from which
forest had been removed.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT: Improving the quality of human life while living within the carrying
capacity of supporting ecosystems.
SUSTAINABLE USE:                  Use of renewable resources (species and ecosystems) at a rate
within their capacity for renewal.
M:\FSLOVAYC\TECHRPT.SLO
August 24, 1994



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 8
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT
AND PROTECTED AREAS IN THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC
EASTERN CARPATHLANS
I.     LOCATION, KEY CHARACTERISTICS AND VALUES
1.    The Eastern Carpathians Protected Landscape Area, established in 1977, is located in northeastern
Slovak bordering Poland and the Ukraine (see Map 3). It covers an area of 670 Ikm2 (258 sq. miles).
Its eastern part, covering 406 km2 is one of the least disturbed natural ecosystems in the Slovak Republic.
2.     The Protected Landscape Area consists of the Bukovske vrchy Mountains, the northern Laborecka
vrchovina Highlands and the eastern Beskydske predhorie Hills. The entire area was formed from
extensive deposits of clay and sandstone (Flysch) during the early Tertiary period. Poland, Slovakia and
the Ukraine meet at the summit of Kremenec Mountain, which is the highest mountain in the area with
an elevation of 1,221 m (4,606 ft).
3.     The Eastern Carpathian Mountains are rounded and clothed in vegetation unlike the more rugged
Alps. Forests cover two thirds of the protected landscape. Beech forests with primeval stands of large
mature trees characterize a large part of the area. There are also mixed forests of beech and fir, and
extensive mountain grassy meadows. These meadows also contain rare and endemic species. Together,
these different habitats contain a large variety of plant and animal species, including over 962 species of
vascular plants and 1,342 species of animals, 230 of which are vertebrates. Of particular importance is
one of the largest population of wolves, Canis lupus, left in Europe. The lynx, Lynx lynx, and bear,
Ursus arctos, populations are also significant. Occasionally European bison, Bison bonasus, from the
Bieszczady National Park in Poland migrate into the area.
4.     Cultural and historical features are also significant components of the protected landscape area,
which includes 10 villages and a total of approximately 5000 inhabitants. These communities include
attractions such as old wooden churches protected as National Cultural Monuments.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
5.      Habitats of particular value in the Protected Landscape to conservation include:
Stuzica             A well-preserved complex of primeval beech and fir-beech forest ecosystems which provide
habitat for bear, lynx and wolf. These forest stands reach their upper limits above which the
mountain meadows ("poloniny") are found with their characteristic association of East
Carpathian species.
Riaba skala         This is a unique forest area in the Bukovske vrchy hills which contains a concentration of
rare plant and animal species.
Plasa               Plasa is a virgin beech forest with a mixture of maple near its upper forest limit, where
climatic conditions limit tree growth.
Rozok               A fragment of homogeneous virgin beech forest.
Havesova            A fragment of virgin beech forest with maple, elm and ash.
Stinska             An area of well-preserved forest communities and mountain meadows which contains East
Carpathian endemic species.
Bahno               A depression with peat and fen communities containing Drosera rotundifolia (an
insectivorous plant species), Thysselinum palustre and Phelypteris thelypteroides.
Udava               A fragment of fir-beech forest outstanding because of the abundance of fir in the stand.
These forest communities provide essential habitats for bear, lynx and wolf.
Hiboke              A beech forest on acid bedrock.
Pod Ruskym          An waterlogged association of grasses and other species including a variety of pontic and
mediterranean ones.
Struznica dolina    Forest stands on the alluvium of the Struznica River which include the sub-
atlantic/mediterranean species, Primula vulgaris.
Hrunok              A well-preserved forest community with oak prevailing and which contains the East
Carpathian species Helliborus purpurascens and the endangered species, Hepatica nobilis,
which occur in great number.
Orenicova skala     A long row of sandstone cliffs important especially for the study of morphology, tectonics
and soil evolution in the region.
Stinska slatina     A moor-peat community in a land depression.
Ruske               Preserved thermophilic, wet and moor communities with the rare species, Genistella
sagilralis occurring.
Gasdoran            Xerothermic grass communities on calcarious flysh beds.
Ostra               A complex of forest communities in the Ulicka River valley with the occurrence of the rare
species, Scopolia carniolica.
Borsuciny           Primeval forest ecosystems on steep and rocky slopes.
Bzana               Mesophilic grass communities with a large diversity of species.
Lany                Grass communities with an unusual concentration of orchid species.
Kolbasovske luky    Sedge and moss community in wet grassland with several endangered species.
Starina             Natural grass community with the rare species, Gentiana pneumonanthe.
Sipkova             Natural exposures of flysh beds with forest and grass communities.
Slatina pod         A complex of moor-peat communities with a variety of East Carpathian species.
Solistom
Pod Cerninami       Moor-peat community with the rare species, Senecio rivularis.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 8
II.    MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES
6.    The IUCN Commission on National Parks and Protected Areas recommended in its "Guidelines
for Promoting Effective Management of Transfrontier Parks and Reserves", that once border parks are
recognized as areas of special importance by governments, that the agencies concerned should develop
a set of detailed measures for cooperative management. Significant progress has been made toward this
goal through an international declaration signed on September 27, 1991 by the environment ministers of
the Slovak Republic, Poland and Ukraine. This declaration provides for cooperative and coordinated
activities by the three nations to manage and protect more than 163,626 ha of the Eastem Carpathians
as an international biosphere reserve.
7.    The Protocol agreement includes the following:
*  Establishing the boundaries of the protected areas and their appropriate zones in each country
according to its own legislation and guided by the UNESCO MaB biosphere reserve
principles.
*  Promoting and ensuring cooperative scientific research and management for the protection
and restoration of the Eastern Carpathian ecosystems.
*  Organizing uniform biomonitoring and protection of migratory animal species.
8.    The Parties to the Protocol agreement have established a Coordination Committee which will meet
when necessary to draw up programs to protect, utilize and increase the environmental potential of the
biosphere reserve and to supervise the implementation of measures resulting from the Protocol. Experts
may be invited to participate in the work of the Committee. Broad objectives for management of the
Eastern Carpathians are embodied in the Landscape Protected Area Legislation, legislation currently being
developed and in components of the Slovak Ministry of Environment's Nature Conservation Strategy.
As yet specific management objectives are yet to be formulated for the area.
TATRAS
I. LOCATION, KEY CHARACTERISTICS AND VALUES
9.    The Tatras (Vysoke Tatry) range, which is part of the Western Carpathian Mountain system, is
the highest mountain range in Czechoslovakia, with Gerlach peak rising to 2,655 meters above sea level.
It is located in northern Slovak along the border with Poland (see Map 1).
10.   The Tatras National Park (TNP), established in 1949, is the second largest national park and the
oldest national park established in the former Czechoslovakia. It covers 74,000 hectares. The Polish
part, which became a national park in 1954, covers 25,000 ha. The two parks form a bilateral protected
area and have been designated as a bi-national biosphere reserve.
11.   Pieniny National Park, administered by the TNP authorities is located to the east of the Tatras,
along the Dungec River which forms the Czech-Polish border. The Pieniny National Park and its
counterpart in Poland is the oldest bilateral protected area in Europe since a nature reserve was
established in Poland in 1930 and one on the Czechoslovak side in 1932.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 8
12.    The Tatra Mountains are Slovak's "Alps in miniature. " Glaciers have distinctly marked the alpine
landscape creating spectacular scenery and a variety of alpine habitats. There are some 20 peaks in the
park which rise more that 2,500 meters above sea level, and there are more than 100 lakes of glacial
origin. The western part of the massif is composed basically of granite, and the eastern (Belanske Tatry),
of limestone and dolomite.
13.    This area adds an important component for this GEF biodiversity project since it contains a rich
and varied flora of about 1,100 vascular plant species and a fauna of about 1,300 animal species. Some
of the vascular plant species are endemic. Chamois and marmots live in the highest parts, while brown
bear, lynx and wolf are found in the lower forested areas.
14.    Habitats of particular value in the Tatras and Pieniny to conservation include:
Tristarska dolina   Unique and rich flora containing relict and endemic species.
Valley
Nefcerka Valley   Special fauna including brown bear, deer, occasional lynx, and rare and endemic beetles.
Belianska        Serves as a winter refuge for a variety of bat species including Rhinolophus hipposideros.
jaskyna Cave
Dolina Siedmich   Different forest types and a variety of rare plant and animal species on karst formations.
pramenov Valley
Velicka dolina   This higher valley has a variety of forest types including Pinus cembra and Larix decidua
Valley           types. The valley is noted for its rare flora and also as a habitat for chamoix, a number of
colonies of marmot, and the occurrence of endemic small rodents.
Mengusovska      One of the largest and most beautiful valleys. It has rare vegetation types particularly in
dolina Valley    the vicinity of the lake of Velke Hincovo pleso and several other localities.
Temne smreciny   Has stands of the original primeval forest types, including exceptional associations of
Forest           white spruce Picea abies and mountain ash Sorbus aucuparia, and white spruce and maple
Acer pseudoplatanus with fern and tall herb understory. Significant numbers of the Swiss
stone pine Pinus cembra also occur in all stages of development.
Rohacske plesa    An amphitheater on gneiss, crystalline, granitic and limestone substrates, each with
Lakes            special flora associations.
Sivy vrch        Located in the main range of the Western Tatras, it is characterized by weathered
Mountain         dolomites and limestones and rare and endemic species associated with these formations.
Cervene vrchy    With a mixture of alternating stratas of granite, dolomite and limestone these hills have a
Hills            population of more than 250 plant species, including several rare and endemic species.
Juranova dolina   Is considered to be the best dolomite-limestone area of the Western Tatras. The varied
Valley           geological formations have resulted in a number of vegetation types which include rare
species. There are also old stands of fir and beech forests, with the significant occurrence
of the fern, Phylitis scolopendrium.
SOURCE: Biosphere Reserve Nomination



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 8
II. MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES
15.   The Tatra National Park is administered by the Slovak Ministry of Land Management. Excellent
relations have been established with the adjacent national park in Poland, reflected by the fact that the
two governments have proposed the establishment of a bilateral biosphere reserve.
16.   The Tatra National Park has an excellent monitoring and research record as well as information
regarding environmental and biodiversity trends that will be of considerable value to the network of
protected areas and the development of model conservation programs. In 1991 the Administration of the
Tatra National Park became the Residence of the Associations of National Parks and Protected Landscape
Areas of Slovak Republic. This organization is an IUCN member and is the Residence of the Carpathian
Association of National Parks, which is a network of national parks in the Carpathian area of Hungary,
Poland, Slovakia and Ukraine.
17.   The main objective of the GEF project assistance to the Tatras area is to strengthen ecological
research and monitoring programs in order to improve resource management that will have indications
in this park as well as others with similar problems. The following GEF project components are
proposed to achieve this objective and include systematic environrnental investigation and monitoring,
implementation of practical conservation measures and a systematic training and environmental education
program.
MORAVA
I. LOCATION, KEY CHARACTERISTICS AND VALUES
18.   The project activities, which will be carried out in close cooperation with the Czech Palava
project and Austrian authorities, will be focused along the Morava River from Tvrdonice south to
Bratislava, including the tributary Rudava River. It adjoins the Czech Palava project in the confluence
of the Dyje and Morava Rivers. (see map 4)
Key Characteristics
19.   In the agricultural landscapes of the Central European lowlands, there are remnants of natural
ecosystems with a high diversity of plant and animal life. Some of the bast of these habitats are found
in the flood plains of the Dyje and Morava Rivers. A large part of these wetlands are covered with flood
plain forests -- one of the largest and finest being located along the confluence of the Dyje and Morava
Rivers.
20.   Over the last millennium there have been changes in the Dyje and Morava floodplain, but radical
changes have taken place since the 1960's. The floodplain forests have been reduced. The water table
has dropped and spring floods have been interrupted. Large areas of meadow were ploughed up and
converted into arable fields. The once continuous flood plain area has been transformed into a mosaic
of remnant natural areas and areas of intensive management. Some stretches of natural river beds and
fluvial processes remain, however, especially in the Morava River and its tributary, the Rudava.
21.   The Rudava River is a small tributary of the Morava River in Western Slovak with a total length
of about 45 krm. This river and its valley contain a rich variety of natural habitats, especially in the
middle section, where the stream has never been regulated. Here there are sand dunes adjoining



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 8
floodplain forests, peat bogs, meadows, marshes, and other wetland types. According to recent surveys,
505 species of vascular plants (101 of which are on the Red Data List of the Czech and Slovak Flora),
more than 30 fish species (5 on the Red Data List), 11 species of amphibians (4 on the Red Data List),
48 bird species (13 on the Red Data List) and 24 mammals. Even species which are name in the whole
of Europe, such as the otter and european beaver can be found here.
22.   This entire region of the Dyje and Morava has a long tradition of excellent scientific studies
which provide the background and preparation for currently proposed reassessments and actions needed
to develop an integrated regional conservation and sustainable development plan. Several scientific
institutions and a highly professional group of scientists from both the Slovak and Czech Republics are
engaged in efforts to develop strategies for environmentally suitable stream, forest, agricultural and tourist
management practices. The Czech GEF Palava project and this Slovak Morava project will assist in
bringing these various efforts together, and will also provide support for developing environmental
education programs with the communities in the region.
Principle Issues
23.   The major issues for the region include: floodplain forest conservation and restoration, water
regime management, agricultural practices, and over commercialization of the area forn undirected and
uncontrolled tourism. The principle objective will be to develop scientifically based and ecologically
sound forest, stream, agricultural, tourist management and sustainable development practices for the
region, with development of the then Palava, Dyje and Morava areas as a model for the region.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
SLOVAK REPUBLIC PROTECTED AREAS
NATIONAL PARKS
Mala Fatra                      11              22,630                1988
Nizke Tatry                     11              81,095                1978
Pieniny                         II               2,125                1967
Slovensky raj                   11              19,763                1988
Tatras                          11              74,111                1948
NATIONAL NATURE RESERVES
Choc                           IV                1,428                1982
Dropie                         IV                9,218                1955
Dumbier                        IV                2,043                1973
Janska dolina                  IV                1,696                1984
Salatin                          I               1,193                1982
Tista                          IV                3,066                1981
PROTECTED LANDSCAPE AREAS
Biele Karpaty                   V               43,519                1979
Cerova vrchovina                V               16,280                1989
Horns Orava                     V               70,333                1979
Kysuce                          V               63,462                1984
Latorica                        V               15,620                1990
Male Karpaty                    V               65,504                1976
Muranska planina                V               21,931                1976
Polana                          V               20,079                1981
Ponitrie                        V               37,665                1985
Slovensky kras                  V               36,166                1973
Stiavnicke vrchy                V               77,630                1979
Strdtovsk6 vrchy                V               30,979                1989
Velka Fatra                     V               60,610                1973
Vinorlat                        V                4,383                1973
Vychodne Karpaty                V               66,810                1977
Zahorie                         V               27,522                1988
NATURAL AREAS
Demanovske jaskyne             III               1,517                1972



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 8
BIOSPHERE RESERVES
Polana                          IX               20,079                1990
Slovensky Kras                  IX               36,165                1977
Tatras National                 IX                                     1992
East Carpathians                IX                                     1992
RAMSAR WETLANDS
didovskM mftve rameno            R                  135                1990
Parilske mociare                 R                  141                1990
Senne rybniky fish ponds         R                  442                1990
ir                              R                  984                1990
Morava River Floodplains         R                                     1993
Latorica                         R                                     1993
Danube Floodplain                R                                     1993
M:\FSLOVAK\ANNEX1 SLO
August 24, 1994



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Supervision and monitoring are essential elements of any complex Project. They are much more
than checking disbursements, reporting, and contractual observations. They are important in assisting
all participants to step back and view the whole effort rather than focussing on managing its' parts. The
view afforded permits innovation, adaptive changes, mid-course corrections in changing environments,
and the evolution of the project in ways which enrich it and foster the achievement of the goals of the
Project. Monitoring and evaluation are particularly important for projects which involve uncertainty or
poor and missing data. Therefore, in these cases, assumptions, innovations, and techniques, must be
closely monitored before waste or damage occurs.
Monitoring
2.    With the number of innovative components in this project being implemented in a short time
frame, a wider and more extensive program of supervision and monitoring is proposed than is commonly
applied in Bank projects. For example, the life of this GEF project is three years, rendering the Annual
Project Review less meaningful. Also, its thrust differs somewhat from the normal concerns of the
implementing Agency. This will probably not be unusual for such new technical concerns as conservation
biology in many areas of the world which most require such efforts. The normal checks and balances
and quality assessment mechanisms of such Agencies may be initially confounded by the novel and
unfamiliar elements of such Projects and may therefore benefit disproportionately from Bank supervision
activities.
3.    There is the distinct danger of a paper blizzard with lots of raw monitoring data but little analysis
and useful synthesis. The Plan is more frequent (three times per year) as well as more scientifically
oriented compared to the normal schedule of semi-annual staff/consultant efforts in regular Bank projects.
The scheduled supervision visits respond to milestones proposed in the Project.
Supervision
4.    Three supervision missions are planned for each year of the proposed two year project
implementation period (estimated at about 2 weeks each, with 1 week of report writing on return). Each
of these missions should have the flexibility to adapt to the conditions at the time. The Core Team would
include Task Manager, the forest wildlife ecologist, and the parks specialist supplemented by additional
scientists. The first supervision mission is proposed for October 1993. At this critical juncture, an initial
Joint Scientific Committee workshop would be held, equipment and infrastructure procurement would be
underway, the GIS implementation plan completed, and the Biodiversity Protection Program initiated.
The second supervision mission will take place in October/November 1993 when the work is largely in



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
progress, and the initial Joint Scientific Committee meeting with Polish and Slovak counterparts would
be scheduled.
Proposed Staffing Pattern    Oct       March    July       Oct       March    Sept       Oct 1995
1993      1994      1994      1994      1995      1995      Wrap-up
Task Manager                    2         2         2         2         2         2         2
Forest Wildlife Ecologist       2         1         1         1         1         1          1
Parks Specialist                2                             I         -         1          I
GIS Specialist (Trust Fund)     1                             I         -         -
non-GEF
Land Use Planner (Trust         2         1         1         1         1         1          -
Fund) non-GEF
Proposed Supervision (GEF)      6         3         3         4         3         4          4
Staff/Weeks
5.     The proposed budget for this intensive supervision work is 56 staff weeks, 18 staff weeks for
FY94 including provision for four weeks of office time, 16 weeks for FY95 (with three weeks for office
time) and the balance of 16 staff weeks for FY96 for the wrap-up work including four weeks for office
time. The estimated total supervision cost is estimated at $35,000 for FY94, $40,000 for FY95 and
$35,000 for FY96, for a total supervision cost estimate of approximately $1 10,0001 (inclusive of staff
costs, consultant fees, travel and subsistence) according to the detailed program outlined in the matrix
above. The supervising division expects at a minimum of 12 staff weeks of the specific scientific
supervision work on the GIS and the Land Use Planner to be eligible for non-GEF Trust Fund support.
This would leave a direct divisional supervision charge of 14 staff weeks for the full project, which is
in line with regular GEF supervision coefficients on an annualized basis (12 staff weeks per annum).
M:ASLOVAKIANNEX2.SD
AuSaU24, 1994
1/ Paid by the World Bank



ANNEX-3
Page I of 5
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
STRATEGIES FOR SUSTAINABILITY (IUCN's COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENT AND STRATEGIC PLANNING)
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Biodiversity conservation in each of the areas depends upon the development of sustainable
economies in the nearby communities and ultimately throughout the region. Since each biosphere reserve
is intended to be a place where decision-makers, scientists, managers, and local people work together to
develop model programs to sustain natural resources to meet human needs, there must be organized and
deliberate approaches to preparation of sustainable development strategies for the areas.
II.    OBJECTIVES
2.    Under the auspices of the SME, the Slovak Republic MaB Committee would organize workshops
in cooperation with IUCN and WWF, to develop plans for the preparation of sustainable development
strategies in each of the transborder biosphere reserves.
3 .    World Wildlife Fund has played a leading role in developing policy guidelines for sustainable use
of natural resources in Europe. WWF is carrying out a study of farming practices and exploring ways
to help traditional farmers. In Central and Eastern Europe, WWF is examining ways of promoting land-
use and agricultural policies which are not harmful for the environment. It has also helped to establish
energy efficient centers in the Slovak Republic and Poland to carry out research, promote joint ventures
and advise Eastern European governments on more efficient energy production and use. Another current
activity of WWF is to assist in the development of environmental education programs for the Slovak
Republic, which for many years has led the development of environmental education programs under the
auspices of IUCN and WWF. This experience should be applied in this GEF project so that model
programs for sustainable development can be implemented in the biosphere reserves and their support
zones.
4.    One compelling reason for developing these models is that in the Slovak Republic's biosphere
reserves, there are examples of varied and harmonious landscapes which are the result of long-established
patterns of land use. These areas contain an exceptional diversity of life which matches, or even
surpasses in some cases, that of the more natural areas. These landscapes, created where stable
adjustments have been made between the requirements of the human economies and natural resources,
could be of considerable value for their historical and social interest and the lessons they hold for
sustainable resource use and development now and in the future. The biosphere reserves also serve as
valuable reservoirs of genetic materials, e. g. crop varieties and animal breeds, associated with land uses
which have disappeared from most of the lands managed under the agricultural practices of recent times.
5.    Another component of the GEF project would be international exchange, both in the transborder
reserves and with other countries which have leading activities in the field of sustainable development
related to protected area management. For example, the U.S. MaB Program has research projects and



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
case studies regarding sustainable development in five U.S. biosphere reserves, so an exchange and
sharing of experience is proposed. Of particular significance is the approach developed in the Southern
Appalachian Biosphere Reserve and a program which focuses on local community programs, as well as
an analysis of social and economic processes, land uses, landscape dynamics, and resource effects and
environmental quality impacts to compare the Southern Appalachians and the Olympic Peninsula of
Washington State.
6.    The approach to development of strategies for the GEF project areas is outlined below. It is
adapted from an approach developed by IUCN, WWF, and UNEP, described in their publication,
"Caring for the Earth -- A Strategy for Sustainable Living," Gland, Switzerland, October 1991. The
approach outlines how strategies for sustainability at both national and local levels can be undertaken.
More detailed guidance can be made available, as plans for the proposed workshops in the Slovak
Republic are prepared, by the IUCN Working Group on Strategies for Sustainability of IUCN's
Commission on Environmental Strategy and Planning.
III.   COMPONENTS OF A STRATEGY
7.     Successful strategies have five components in common:
-      identification of key issues by participants;
-      consultation and consensus building;
-      information assembly and analysis;
-      policy formulation; and
-      action planning and implementation.
8.    Demonstration projects may also be undertaken so that participants can see results from the
strategy while it is being developed.
A.     Identification of Key Issues
9.    The first step is to identify, from a scientific perspective, the critical or priority issues which
affect ecological sustainability of the natural resources, ecosystems and habitats, and sustainable
development in a particular area or region. These issues will almost always cross sectoral and
jurisdictional boundaries, so knowledgeable people from the different sectors and jurisdictions must be
included in the identification of issues from the beginning. This analysis can be a basis for discussions
under "Consultation and Consensus Building," and can be expanded under "Information Assembly and
Analysis. " (Section A and B below)
B.     Consultation and Consensus Building
10.   Consensus means general agreement on a course of action.
11.   This component provides a forum and process through which participants can build a consensus
on the sustainable development of their region. It may include public meetings and workshops, opinion



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
surveys, written and spoken submissions, and group discussions within communities. It is the means by
which anyone concerned -- communities, government, industry, other interest groups, and individuals -
can participate in developing the strategy.
12.    The aim is to find out people's knowledge, concerns, interests, and what results they would like
most from the strategy. It insures that the strategy builds and reflects a consensus of all participants on:
-       sustainable development objectives
-      the issues that need to be resolved based upon the above scientific analysis, and the
information required for sound decisions.
-      policies, procedures and actions to achieve sustainable development.
13.   It also increases the chance that all parties will implement the strategy, by enabling them to
contribute effectively to it and giving them a stake in the strategies' implementation.
C.     Information Assembly and Analysis
14.    Effective strategies are built on facts. This component of a strategy assembles and analyzes the
information necessary for sound decisions on economic development, environmental conservation, and
their integration.
15.   Information is needed on:
e       The people: Status and trends in population, employment, and resource use. Values and
perceptions. Interactions among communities and interest groups. Common interests
and compatibilities. Avoidable and unavoidable conflicts.
-       The economy: Status and trends of the main income sectors, particularly the resource-
based sectors (energy, timber mining, fisheries, aquaculture, tourism); their social and
economic importance and potential; their sustainability, both in their own terms and in
relation to other sectors; their interactions with each other; what is required to conserve
their resource base (the ecosystems and natural resources they depend on).
*      The environment and natural resources:  Status and trends of ecosystem structure,
function, and composition including biodiversity; what will be required to use these
natural resources sustainable.
*      Institutions, laws, policies and voluntary actions that will promote sustainable
development.
16.    The nature and scope of the issues and interests that participants decide should be covered by the
strategy govern how much information is needed. This is not intended to be a major research effort,
although the process should be used to identify areas where further research is needed.
This should be done in close collaboration with the biosphere reserve authorities and within the context
of their management plans.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
D.      Poliv Formulation
17.    This component is developed on the basis of the information analysis, through consultation and
consensus building. It sets out agreed policies that are compatible with the management plans and
policies for the biosphere reserves to achieve sustainable development in the area and in particular to:
*       develop an economy that is sustainable and consistent with the needs and values of the
biosphere reserve and the participants;
*       coordinate and allocate resources among economic sectors;
*       promote each sector's sustainable development and secure its resource base;
*       maintaini and enhance life-support systems and biodiversity;
*       improve decision-makinig and resolve conflicts that may arise in the future, including a
mechanism for making decisions in the event of an impasse;
reduce resource waste, and achieve a level of resource consumption.
E.      Action Planning and Im,rplementation
18.    An action plan sets out how the participants will implement the agreed policies. It should be done
in close cooperation with the biosphere reserve authority and the management plan for the reserve. It
may be divided into two parts: strategic directions, which describe broadly what needs to be done; and
specific actions to be taken over the next two years or so. The plan should contain a budget for specific
actions, for it can also serve as means for generating support from various sources. The action plan
should also include a procedure for monitoring and evaluating implementation and its results. It should
specify the indicators which would be used in measuring environmental end points such as biodiversity,
and this monitoringL ictrivity should he a priority focus of the biosphere reserve.
F.      Experimental and Demonstration Projects
19.    Though there is considerable existing knowledge that can be applied in the preparation of
sustainable development models, there is still a great deal to be learned to achieve this complex objective.
The biosphere reserves provide ideal places to test different approaches to conserve biodiversity and
achieve sustainable development in specific situations, which can then be shared through the network of
reserves and other Imieanis. Both experimiiental and proven model sustainable development projects can
demonstrate the meaning and practicality of sustainability under specific conditions. Such projects could
simultaneously help (lefine more precisely the strategies objectives, build public support for their
achievement, test the feasihility and effectiveness of proposed actions, and explore practical ways of
reducing conflicts and enhlancing compatihilities among resource uses.
20.    Demonstration projects are also a means of implementing parts of the strategy on which there is
early consensus, and which can be organized and funded before preparation of the rest of the strategy is
completed. Early implementation is essential to avoid the impression that the strategy is all talk and no



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
action. Some of the early demonstration projects could be implemented inside the biosphere reserves as
well as in the communities in the support zones.
G.     Planning and Organization of the Biosphere Reserve Support Zone Strategies
21.    Under the auspices of the National Committee for MaB, the Slovak Ministry for the Environment
and IUCN, in cooperation with WWF, should lead preparation of a general plan to develop local
strategies in each biosphere reserve. This could be done in workshops in which representatives of the
biosphere reserves, including those from border countries, would participate. The purpose would be to
outline the procedures and the steps necessary for the preparation of local strategies, identify the key
participants, and begin to initiate the process. As indicated above, more detailed guidance can be made
available by IUCN's Working Group on Strategies for Sustainability.
M:\FSLOVAK\ANNEX3.SLO
August 24, 1994



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 13
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
Local    Foreign     Total    %Foreign    %Total
Investment Costs                                    -----(US$ '000)--------
A. Biodiversity Protection Program
1. Biodiversity Management     479.2        42.5    521.7        8.1       20.9
2. Planning                     54.0         6.0      60.0       10.0       2.4
3. Applied Research              13.3       67.3      80.6       83.5       3.2
4. Training and Prof. Dev.       17.5       50.0      67.5       74.1       2.7
Sub-Total               564.0       165.8    729.8       44.0      29,1
B. Conservation Program
1. Buffer Zone Strategies       76.5        13.5     90.0        15.0       3.6
2. C. Capacity & Rev. Mechs.     63.0        7.0      70.0       10.0       2.8
3. Demonstration Projects       100.0        0.0    100.0         0.0       4.0
4. Tri-National Trust            0.0       610.0    610.0       100.0      25.0
Sub-Total               239.5      630.5    870.0        72.9      35.4
C. Institution and Infrastructure
1. Protected Area Facilities   202.3        22.5    224.8        10.0       9.0
2. Comp. & Data Management       87.0      348.0    435.0        80.0      17.4
3. Join Scientific Advisory Commtt   0.0    45.0      45.0      100.0       1.8
4. Project Management            60.0       30.0      90.0       33.3       3.6
5. NGO Small Grants Program      91.0        0.0      91.0        0.0       3.6
Sub-Total               440.3      445.8    885.8        50.3       35.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                  1243.8     1241.8   2485.6        50.3     100.0
Physical Contingencies           62.2       31.6      93.8       33.6       3.7
Price Continegencies             64.8       24.8      89.6       27.7       3.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                   1370.8     1297.2   2670.0        48.9     107.0
NOTE: Table does not include
complimentary Austrian EcoFund activities
(US$ 0.5 million)



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 13
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
Base Costs in US$ '000           Totals Including
Investment Costs                                                           Contingencies US$ '000
1993  1994  1995  Total       1993  1994  1995  Total
A. Forest restoration - Carp
Inventory of seed sources          5.3  11.0   3.0  19.3          5.7  12.1   3.4  21.2
Stand reconstruction               5.0  20.0  18.0  43.0          5.3  22.0  20.4  47.8
Cultivation and maintenance        3.8  12.0  11.7  27.5          4.1  13.2  13.3  30.6
Protection of growing stock        2.4  10.0   8.8  21.2          2.6  11.0  10.0  23.5
Sub-Total                 16.6  53.0  41.5  111.1       17.8  58.3  47.1  123.1
B. Planning - Carpathians
Dev. of Mgmt. Strategy            25.0  15.3   0.0  40.0         26.7  16.5   0.0  43.3
Management Plant                   5.0  15.0   0.0  20.0          5.3  16.5   0.0  21.9
Sub-Total                30.0  30.0   0.0  60.0         32.1  33.0   0.0  65.1
C. Catchment Protection - Carpathians
Development of Techniques          3.0  23.1  20.2  46.3         3.2  25.4  22.9  51.5
Riparian Forest Restoration       0.5   4.1   4.1   8.7          0.5   4.5   4.6   9.7
Sub-Total              3.5  27.2  24.3  55.0          3.7  29.9  27.6  61.2
D. Meadow Ecosystems - Carpthns
Traditional Mgmt.                  3.8   7.7   7.8  19.3          4.4   9.4  10.0  23.7
Mowing and Monitoring              2.4   6.3   6.6  15.3          2.6   6.9   7.5  17.0
Sub-Total                 6.2  14.0  14.4  34.6          7.0  16.3  17.5  40.7
E. Forest Restoration Tatras
Cone Dryer                        35.0   0.0   0.0  35.0         37.4   0.0   0.0  37.4
Storage of Material                2.0   0.0   0.0   2.0          2.1   0.0   0.0   2.1
Greenhouse Equipment               0.0  11.0   0.0  11.0          0.0  12.1   0.0  12.1
Sub-Total                37.0  11.0   0.0  48.0         39.6  12.1   0.0  51.7
F. Restoration Morava
Rest. Water Regime                50.0  50.0  25.0  125.0       53.5  55.0  28.3  136.9
Rest. of Wetlands                  5.0  10.0   0.0  15.0         5.3  11.0   0.0  16.4
Rest. of River Corridors          0.0  45.0  10.0  55.0          0.0  49.5  11.3  60.9
Management of Meadows             5.0  10.0   5.0  20.0          5.3  11.0   5.7  22.0
Rehabilitation of Forests         10.0  15.0   3.0  28.0        10.7  16.5   3.4  30.6
Ex-situ Conservation              7,0   5.0   1.0  13.0          7.5   5.5   1.1  14.1
Sub-Total             77.0  135.0  44.0  256.0       82.4  148.5  49.9  280.8
G. Professional Development and Training
Carrying Capacity                  7.5   0.0   0.0   7.5          8.0   0.0   0.0   8.0
GIS Training and Workshop          10.0  15.0  10.0  35.0        10.7  16.5  11.3  38.5
Study Tours                        5.0  15.0   5.0  25.0          5.3  16.5   5.7  27.5
Sub-Total                22.5  30.0  15.0  67.5         24.1  33.0  17.0  74.1
H. Planning Morava
Biotype Mapping                   12.0   0.0   0.0  12.0         12.8   0.0   0.0  12.8
Workshop                           0.0   5.0   0.0   5.0          0.0   5.5   0.0   5.5
Sub-Total              12.0   5.0   0.0  17.0        12.8   5.5   0.0  18.3
1. High Tatras Research
Analysis of Bioindicators          4.0   4.0   4.0  12.0          4.3   4.4   4.5  13.2
Mapping/Analysis Carbon            6.2   1.4   4.0  11.6          6.6   1.5   4.5  12.7
Telemetric Monitoring             35.0   7.0   0.0  42.0         37.4   7.7   0.0  45.2
International Center                 5.0   5.0   5.0  15.0         5.4   5.6   5.9  16.9
Sub-Total                45.2  412.4   8.0  65.6        54.0  19.6  15.3  88.8
Total Investment Costs                   255.0  322.6  152.2  729.8    274.3  363.4  179.0  816.7



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 13
1.     Additional to existing government program.
2.     Pilot Project - project design, implementation and evaluation.
3.     Includes monitoring of species and determination of sustainability.
4.     BCC Seed cone/drying station, 25-40 degree temperature amplitude.
5.     Freezer and connection to back up power supply.
6.     Plantation stock equipment and development of techniques.
7.     Green house from Tatras admin.; temperature and moisture control equipment required.
8.     Study tour of managers and local government in Europe.
9.     Includes GEF Workshop and Individual Training in GIS at EPA Slovak Center.
10.    Special program for planning, restoration ecology and management.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
INTEGRATED CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
DETAILED COST TABLE
Base Costs in US$ '000           Totals Including
Investment Costs                                                          Contingencies US$ '000
1993  1994  1995  Total       1993  1994  1995  Total
A. Eco Strategy for Buffer Zones
Planning                           15.0  30.0   0.0.  45.0       16.1  33.2   0.0  49.3.
Workshops                          15.0  30.0   0.0  45.0        16.1  33.2   0.0  49.3
Sub-Total                35.0  60.0   0.0  90.0         32.3  67.5   0.0  99.8
B. Canying Capacity & Research
Methodology                        5.0   0.0   0.0   5.0          5.4   0.0   0.0   5.4
Feasibility Study                  5.0  30.0   0.0  35.0          5.4  33.2   0.0  39.2
Implementation                     0.0  10.0  20.0  30.0          0.0  11.1  22.9  34.9
Sub-Total                 10.0  40.0  20.0  70.0        10.7  44.2  22.9  79.8
C. Demonstration Projects                  0.0  30.0  70.0  100.0        0.0  33.9  83.1  117.0
D. Tri-National Trust
Initial Capital                    600.0   0.0   0.0  600.0       600.0   0.0   0.0  600.0
Establishment Costs                 10.0   0.0   0.0  10.0         25.0   0.0   0.0  25.0
Sub-Total            610.0   0.0   0.0  610.0      625.0   0.0   0.0  625.0
Total Investment Costs                   650.0  130.0  90.0  870.0     668.0  146.5  106.7  921.2



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 13
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL, INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Base Costs in US$ '000        Totals Including Contingencies US$
Investment Costs                                                                        000
1993    1994    1995   Total        1993    1994    1995   Total
A. Joint International Sci.Cttes       15.0   15.0   15.0   45.0           16.0   16.5    17.0   49.6
B. Computerizaton & Data Mgmt
Tatras                         22.0   100.0   27.0   149.0         23.6   110.6   30.9   165.1
Slovak Institute               45.0     0.0     0.0    45.0        48.2     0.0      0.0    48.2
East Carpathians               83.0    0.0      0.0    83.0        88.9     0.0      0.0    88.9
Morava                         40.0   48.0      0.0    88.0        42.8    42.8    53.1    95.9
Electronic Mail Systems           40.0    15.0    15.0   70.0          42.8    16.6    17.2   76.6
Sub-Total               230.0   163.0   42.0  435.0         246.4   180.3   48.1   474.8
C. Protected area facilities
Radio Coms - Tatras            12.5    13.3    14.0   39.8         13.4    15.0   16.5   45.0
Radio Comms - E. Carpathians    20.0    0.0     0.0    20.0        21.5     0.0      0.0    21.5
Completion of Tatras Center    11.0    3.0    21.0    35.0          11.8     3.4    24.8    40.0
Education/Res. Ctr -           10.0   110.0   10.0  130.0          10.8  124.0    11.8  146.5
Carpathians
Sub-Total                53.5   126.3   45.0   224.8         57.5   142.4    53.2  253.1
D. NGO Small Grants Program            33.0    33.0   25.0    91.0         35.5    37.3    29.7   102.5
E. Project Implementation
PMCU                           20.0   20.0    20.0   60.0          21.5    22.3    23.2    67.0
PCU                            10.0   10.0   10.0   30.0           10.8    11.3    11.9    33.9
Sub-Total                30.0   30.0    30.0    90.0         32.2    33.6    35.1   100.9
Total Investment Costs                361.5   367.3   157.0  885.8        387.7  410.1   183.0  980.7



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 13
SLOVAK REPUBLIC         *    Ongoing
1. Biodiversity Management Program                      3    6    9    12   15   18   21   24   27   30   33   36
A. Forest Restoration Carpathians
Inventory of seed sources                              ..---,...-:
Land reconstruction                                            +    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *
Cultivation and maintenance                                  .            *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *
Protection of growing stack                                   _           * +
B. Planning Carpathians                                                     _                      ___
Development of Management Strategy                -_._
- Development of TOR                               ........
- API, mapping and data capture                  -.:-. . ... .    ::
- Tri-national workshops                                          . ........
- Negotiations and production of strategy              ..=:...........
- Issue identification                                        . .         . . . . .  = .
- Develop TOR and plan team
- Draft management plan production
- Public participation & negotiation               _                    ....
- Plan finalization                                _. ===
- Implementation start                                                       * _  _    _             _    _      _



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 13
SLOVAK REPUBLIC    * = Ongoing                                    (Cont'd)
C. Meadow Ecosystem - Carpathians
- Site selection
- Application of techniques                                             *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *
- Evaluation
- Formulation of input guidelines                                                                          -::.... ..
D. Water Ecosystems - Carpathian                                                                    ____
- Development of methods
- Riparian forest restoration*                                          *    *     *    *    *     *    *     *
-Evaluation....
E. Forest Restoration Tatras
- Equipment purchase                              ......
- Development of plant stacks                         -       - .            *    *    *    *    *    *    *
- Evaluation



ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 13
F. Professional Development and training
- Carrying capacities                                  ___
- G I S training workshop                                                                       ___
- Study tours
G. Restoration Morava
- Planning                                       _          _
- Implementation water regimes                    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *        *
- Implementation wetlands                         *    *                *         *    *            
- Implementation river corridors                  _               _    _          _         _    _      _     _
- Implementation meadow management                *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *        *
- Forest rehabilitation                                                         
- Ex-situ conservation                           _     +    +     +    _    _     _      
H. Planning Morava_
- Biotype mapping                                                      _
- Workshop                                        _                                    _
- Production of land use plan



ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 13
SLOVAK REPUBLIC             *    Ongoing                                               (Cont'd)
1. High Tatras - Research
- Analysis                                                 *    *  |        * |         * |          * i          *     *     *
- Monitoring                                                       
- Development of international center*                                      *     *     *      *     *     *      *     *     *
2. Integrated Conservation & Dvlpmt Program
A. Buffer zone strategies
- Planning                                                   -  -. .....
- Workshops ..0_
.                                               _                r   r   .  r  .   E  .   i:   E   -   -   .   .   .   .   .    7.  .  7 .,,.. . . . ..   . . . .   . . . .   . .
- Implementation of pilot projects                                                _         - ;-;*
B. Establishment of Tri-national trust
r~~~~~~~~~~.   .     . . . . . . . .    . . . ,,  
- Preparation  activities                                             _                              _                  _     _
- Establishment



ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 13
3. Institutional, Infrastructure Improvement Prog
A. Computerization and data management
- Equipment purchase and installation                                 .........
- Establishment of electronic mail system                                                                                     ...........
- Evaluation
B. Protected Area Facilities
- Design of ratio facilities                              ..........
- Purchase & installation of radio facilities
- Design of education center                              ..:.--
- Construction of education center                          _     =       --.    -. _                  =.=.=.=._
- Purchase and installation of equipment
- Completion of Tatras center
C. NGO Small Grants Programs
- Establishment of administration                         .......
- Workshops
- Grant Programs                                                  *    _      _     _                  _ *         _      _    _
- Evaluation



ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 13
SLOVAK REPUBLIC   -   = Ongoing                                                   (Cont'd)
D. Project Implementation
- Establish PMCU
- Establish project offices
E. Joint International Centers
- Establishment
- Meetings



ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 13
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
COSTING DETAILS
1.     Project Management Coordinating Unit (Bratislava)
Project Manager                $5,500         $16,500
Asst. Manager                  $4,500         $13,500
Bookeeper/Sec.                 $4,500         $13,500
Travel/Subsistence                            $17,500
Project Vehicle                               $ 8,000
Office Equipment/Furn.(incl. computer equip) $11,000
Office Operating Costs(3 yrs)                 $ 6,000
2.     Project Coordinating Units (for 3 years)
Tatra's                        $10,000
Carpathians                    $10,000
Morova                         $10,000
3.     Regional Scientific Comrnittees (3 committees for 3 years)
$15,000        $45,000
4.      Equipment (partial listing only) -- Based on current industry standards and prices, cost
estimates were derived for budget planning purposes.
Research
(a)    Analysis of bioindicator species including bird feathers and bones, with an emphasis
on heavy metals.
SAMPLE SIZE         NUMBER OF
PARAMETER        PRICE/SAMPLE             (BONES)             SAMPLES          TOTAL
Cd(ICCAP            USD 70                  10 g                 10        USD       700
Pb(GFAA)            USD 50                  10 g                10         USD       500
Pb(GFAA)           USD 50             0.5 or 2 or 10 gms        210        USD    10,500
Sample preparation services, where needed; shipment; sample storage
charges; disposal of hazardous samples, and other sample handling             USD       300
TOTAL        USD    12,000



ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 13
(b)    Mapping and analysis of mesozoic carbonate rocks and their influence on natural
communities of the karst ecosystems.
Analyser                                                     $ 6,210
Digital psychrometer                                         $  345
Thermometer                                                  $ 1,034
Altimeter                                                    $   51
Chemical analysis                                            $ 3,448
Devices construction                                         $   172
Cooperation                                                  $  310
TOTAL                      $ 11.570
(c)    Components for telemetric monitoring of endangered species of animals.
* 3 recapture collars                             USD   5,047
* 18 recapture dart kits                                 3,150
* triggering transmitter                                 2,395
* 3 battery pack replacement                               585
Tags for 20 birds, antenna, receiving equipment
harness materials, etc.                             USD   10,200
Video camera                                          USD   2,500
Stereo microscope                                     USD   16,000
Balances, nets, rings
* nets                                                USD    950
* balances                                            USD    100
* rings                                               USD    200
TOTAL                                                 USD   41,927
(d)    Establishing the High Tatra Research Center as an international distribution center for
information on current activities in conservation-environmental science.
Data base subscription                         $ 1,200
Assistance with salaries and
distribution of documentation                 $ 6,000
Conference and workshops                       $ 7,800
TOTAL        $ 15.000



ANNEX 4
Page 13 of 13
(e)    Monitoring Equipment
Microwave sample preparation system          $ 17,000
Specol UV-VIS                                $ 11,200
Plant Efficiency analyser                    $ 5,000
Total $ 33.200
(f)    Monitoring Information Systems
486/50 PC, or equivalent,
with color monitor and printer              $ 12,656
386/33 PC, or equivalent                     $ 3,433
386/33, or equivalent, printer               $ 3,297
386/33, or equivalent, without printer       $ 3,040
TOTAL              $ 22.426
(g)    GIS Workstations and software no. 1          $ 49,329
no. 2            $ 49,263
Installation              $  833
Color Monitor and Printer A,                 $ 6,272
Printer A4                             $ 3,297
Options:                                     $ 20,178
Education Centers
Video Camera                                 $ 6,400
Digital Production Mixer                     $ 3,800
Video recorder                               $  700
Software Photostiler                         $ 1,900
386 SEL, XGA, Card Film Motion
Adapter Touch Screen                        $ 17,858
Real Extention Card                          $  197
CD ROM                                       $ 1,786
Applications                                 $ 3,000
(h)    Radio Equipment
Spare Sources for portable transmitters
ICH 16 Tn (70 pieces)                       $ 11,525
Boxes for portable transmitters (70 pieces)  $ 1,050
Portable transmitters (19 pieces)            $ 13,346
Control instrument                           $  733
Portable transmitters (13 pieces)            $ 13,346



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GEF PROPOSED PROGRAM FOR THE
UKRAINE SEGMENT OF THE EASTERN CARPATHIAN TRI-NATIONAL RESERVE
1.    The Eastern Carpathian Mountains along the borders of the Slovak Republic, Poland and Ukraine
contain some of the least disturbed ecosystems in Eastern Europe. The Carpathians contain one quarter
of the flora of Europe and many endemic plants useful to mankind such as medicinal plants. The largest
remaining stand (10,900 ha) of virgin beech forest is present in the Carpathians. This is a remarkable
natural resource for the rest of Europe, which has lost such undisturbed areas. A part of the East
Carpathians has been formally designated by Ukraine as the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve under the
UNESCO Man and the Biosphere Program.
2.     Carpathians Biosphere Reserve Within the Ukrainian Carpathians are some unique preserved
areas of beech and spruce forests of significance for analyzing the development history of the East
Carpathians vegetation. The first reserve of beech and fir-beech forests was created in 1932 on the
Stuciza mountain slopes. Since that time the reserve has been enlarged to 2,952 ha and included in the
Ukrainian Carpathians Biosphere Reserve (CBR). The CBR was created in 1991 with a total area of
38,930 ha, which is subdivided into a reserve zone (21,879 ha), a buffer zone (8,949 ha), and a
conservative nature management zone (8,071 ha). The reserve zone includes the Stuzica scenic reserve
and four separately located forest or alpine areas. These areas are the Khust forest, the Uglya-Shyroky
Lug forest, the Chernogirs'ky forest and the Maramoros'ky massif.
3.     The Stuzica Reserve is located on the border with Slovakia and Poland at a range of between
770 to 1269 m (ASL). Flora of the reserve forest includes over 500 species of vascular plants many of
which are rare. The beech has a wide altitudinal range (500-1260m).
4.     The Khust Reserve Massif is a small area of forest (256 ha) at 180-200 m ASL and is the largest
European locality for the narrow-leaved narcissus. In addition to the narcissus, there are many other rare
plants.
5.     The Ugolsko-Shyrokoluy Lansky Massif has an area of 10,350 ha and is located at elevations
ranging from 400 to 1280m on the Polonya ridge. The beech forest extends to 1280 m. Although the
majority of the ridge is flysch, a limestone ridge is contiguous with the flysch on the south side. This
limestone ridge results in specific flora and fauna associated with caves in the karst system. The forest
contains about 550 species of vascular plants.
6.     The Chornogirs'ky Reserve Massif is located on the Chornogorsky ridge at elevations from
800m to 2061m (ASL) and has seven identifiable plant profiles associated with elevation. The forest flora
numbers more than 700 vascular plant species. Fauna comprise many rare and commercially valuable
species.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
7.     The Maramoros'ky Reserve Massif has a total area of 3,970 ha with well defined glacier cirques
at the higher elevations. The slopes of the cirques are covered with thickets of Pinus mugo and
Duschekia viridus. The geology includes schists, gneiss and marble-like limestone of the Jurassic period
which determines the vegetation and to some extent the fauna.
8.     Surrounding each of the reserves are buffer zones which decrease the impact of human induced
activity on the protected areas by restricting the extent and nature of some uses.
9.     As a result of a recent agreement (September, 1991), the Environment ministers of Ukraine,
Poland and Slovakia propose to develop a tri-national biosphere reserve. This international reserve would
include expansion of the Stuciza reserve and the creation of a national park on the Ukraine area of the
Eastern Carpathian. The table below indicates the preliminary areas identified for the international
reserve. Considerable investigation and preparation is required to make the proposal a reality.
Proposed Eastern Carpathians Tri-National Biosphere Reserve
Country           |                Reserve                 |    Area (ha)
Ukraine            Stuzice National Park (presently 2,000 ha)   14,300
Slovakia            Vychodne Karpaty - protected landscape   40,601
park (future national park)
Poland             San River Valley Landscape Park          35,635
Cisna-wetlina Landscape Park and         46,025
Bieszczady National Park                 27,065
TOTAL:  163,626
10.    This add-on project to the Slovak GEF project will provide the essential funds required to
implement the declaration which calls for consistent management approaches for the reserved areas in all
three countries. The parties to the agreement have established a Coordination Committee which will meet
when necessary to protect, utilize and increase the environmental potential of the biosphere reserve and
to supervise the implementation of programs resulting from the declaration.
11.    This further GEF project will be a part of the first phase of Ukraine's long term effort to protect
its forest ecosystems. It will initiate programs to conserve the biodiversity of key endangered forests in
the Eastern Carpathian system and will provide institutional support to the Ministry of Forestry and the
Ministry of Environment to undertake biodiversity conservation management activities, which will include
a range of in-situ and ex-situ techniques.
12.    The project has been accorded high priority by the Government.  However, funds are not
available from government sources to carry out the work proposed here and the government does not
want to borrow external resources.
13.    GEF Project Objectives.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
The objectives of this project will be to:
(a)    incorporate this small Ukrainian GEF project ($500,000) as an add-on to the proposed
Slovakia Biodiversity Protection Project (GEF $2.3 million). The innovation being
supported under the Ukrainian project is threefold: this would be the first GEF project
in the Ukraine, the first trilateral transboundary project supported under the GEF and the
first three- country Trust Fund to be organized for biodiversity protection.  The
MacArthur Foundation of Chicago, Illinois has indicated its willingness to contribute
$300,000 to initiate this Tri-Lateral Carpathian Biodiversity Protection Trust Fund. This
Foundation has provided $26,000 to date to the Ukrainian Ministry of the Environment
to initiate the planning and preparation of this Trust.
(b)    support the Ukrainian portion of the overall trilateral (Ukraine, Poland and Slovakia)
program to protect habitat fragments, stop species loss and upgrade habitat management.
(c)    develop and implement the legal, institutional and administrative interventions to achieve
the long term protection of the area in Ukraine as well as in Poland and Czechoslovakia.
14.    GEF Project Description.
To meet these objectives, the following investments are proposed:
(a)    a Biodiversity Protection Program will initiate a range of activities including: financial
support for an inventory of forest fragments and their biological and legal status, a
systems extinction model, support for genetic studies, development of GIS capability and
support for a Trans Carpathian Planning Group.  The program  will include the
development of a national policy on incentives and easements for select land uses around
the protected areas. To ensure the longer term maintenance of some of these innovative
approaches, a plan and curriculum will be developed for the inclusion of the study of
conservation biology in the tertiary forestry curricula, as forestry is the base qualification
for most of the mountain natural resource managers;
(b)    a Management Resources Program  to enable coordinated management of the
discontinuous reserved areas of the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve and the
implementation of the above protection program. These investments will include: (i)
computer equipment and GIS facilities, (ii) provision of transport and communications
for enforcement, protection and management, and (iii) limited assistance with
demonstration activities;
(c)    a Training Program that will include development of communications skills (extension,
public education, interpretation and media relations) language training, data base and
computer training, park planning and managemiienit training; and,
(d)    A Management Program that will include assistance to support the Ukraine GEF unit (for
the Danube Delta GEF and this project) within the Department of Protected and



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
Recreation Areas, and the establishment of a Project Unit at the Carpathians Biosphere
Reserve administrative center in Rakhiv.
15.    The Ukraine project described above is at an advanced stage of preparation and it is hoped that
it will be finalized at the same time as the Slovak GEF project.
M:\FSLOVAK\ANNEX5 .SLO
August 24, 1994



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
BIODIVERSITY SMALL GRANTS PROGRAM & ENVIRONMENTAL NGOS
1.    A modest pilot program to support small grants to Slovak environmental non-government
organizations is provided under this project. A total of $100,000 is included for grants, up to US$7,000,
to an estimated twenty (20) Slovak environmental non-government organizations (NGOs).
2.    Goals and Objectives. The goal of this component is to foster innovative initiatives by the NGO
environmental community in fostering biodiversity protection projects throughout the Slovak Republic.
The objective of this component is to support the expansion of local non-governmental organizations as
well as to their involvement with local communities to protect endangered biodiversity in the Slovak
Republic. Specific objectives include:
(a)    To strengthen new and emerging NGOs in the Slovak Republic to promote biodiversity
conservation particularly in the areas of land stewardship, wildlife protection, and
conservation of forests, rivers and wetlands,
(b)    To assist these NGOs reach out to a broad range of citizens in their communities and
work productively with other sectors (e.g., government, business and academic
institutions) so that they can broaden the impact of their work and more effectively
involve citizens in environmental problem-solving.
(c)    To develop the leadership of these NGOs by exposing key staff and volunteers to new
approaches and innovations in conservation and by helping them to develop professional
skills, problem-solving abilities and self-confidence which will enable them to be more
effective in their work;
(d)    To improve the institutional management capacity of Slovak NGOs through training and
on-site assistance in areas such as strategic planning, project management and fundraising
which will help these groups grow toward independence from outside assistance;
(e)    To foster a two-way exchange of ideas between American and Central European
conservation professionals and citizen activists working on similar environmental issues;
(f)    Broadly. to contribute to the development of institutions important to a strong civil
society in Central Europe and capable of addressing environmental problems in the
region.
3.    The grant program would be administered by the Department of Nature and Landscape Protection
(GEF Project Management and Coordination Unit) of the Ministry of Environment Protection.
4.    Biodiversity Grant Management. A voluntary Advisory Board of three persons to the GEF
Project Management and Coordination Unit would be established under the project. This Board would
comprise a Chairman (a non-Ministry Slovak Biodiversity Specialist ), the Director of the Nature and



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
Landscape Protection Department of the Ministry of Environment and a biodiversity specialist from the
NGO community in the Republic. The Executive Secretary will be Project Manager of the GEF PMCU.
5.     This Biodiversity Small-Grants Advisory Board will make its decisions independent of the PMCU,
be multi-disciplinary and have the authority to recommend to the PMCU the final grant selections.
6.     Executive Secretary to the Biodiversity Advisory Board. The Coordinator of the PMCU of the
GEF Project shall also be the Executive Secretary to the Biodiversity Grant Advisory Board. The
Executive Secretary shall undertake the following duties, inter alia in implementing this component:
(a)    publicize the program and solicit grant applications. Host a training workshop to brief
interested NGO groups in developing an application.
(b)    respond to questions and inquiries from NGOs, local officials and the media.
(c)    as appropriate, make pre-selection site visits to interested NGO groups
(d)    process applications in a timely fashion to submit to the Advisory Board for a decision.
(e)    disburse the grant funds in the two tranches specified in para.
7.     Eligibility. Applications would only be eligible from non-government organizations registered
in the Slovak Republic. The applying NGO is not required to have paid staff, but must demonstrate
organizational capacity to complete the proposed project. Individuals and scientific institutions would be
eligible to participate in projects sponsored by an applying NGO.
8.     Grant Decision Period. Grants would be made at least twice annually and more frequently if
resources permit. Requests for grant applications would be made by circulating each NGO known to be
active in the Republic as well as notices in major newspapers and by the existing electronic networks.
Applications would be due no later than 45 days from publication of notification in the local press. This
procedure would occur at least semi-annually. The decision on grant awards would be made no later than
30 days from final recipient of grant requests.
9.     Grant Period  Grants will be made for a period up to 12 months.
10.   Approval Criteria. In approving these biodiversity protection grants for NGO implementation,
consideration would be given to the following criteria:
(a)    diversity of funding sources
(b)    technical expertise required for project
(c)    organizational capacity to execute proposed project
(d)    previous environmental and biodiversity history of NGO organization
(e)    extent of public participation planned in carrying out the grant.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
11.   Sustainable development projects must be practical and relate clearly to the biodiversity objectives
of conservation. Any proposed scientific research must be applied.
12.    Successful applications would:
(a)    address near-term threats or needs
(b)    be innovative in approach or design
(c)    address problems of local, regional, national or transboundary importance
(d)    contribute significantly to the conservation of biodiversity
13.   Priority. Priority would be given to projects which are practical in approach (direct conservation
actions in a locale), restore or link endangered habitats, demonstrate a high degree of public participation
and work to build public awareness and finally, involve local citizens and communities.
14.   Application. The formal proposal (not to exceed 10 pages of main text and no greater than 15
pages of supporting documentation) should include the following:
- Project title, amount of request, start and end dates (half page)
- Summary of proposed project (one page or less)
- Statement of Biodiversity Issue or Problem being addressed (two pages)
- Proposed Project Objectives, Detailed Features and timing of project (Four pages)
- Detailed Budget (2 pages)
- Supporting Documents (not to exceed 15 pages)
15.    Grant Disbursements.  Each successful grant shall be disbursed in two tranches, 50% at grant
acceptance and 50% at the mid-point of the grant progress.
16.   Monitoring and Reporting. At the completion of the project, the receiving NGO shall provide
a report to the Executive Secretary who will then provide it to the Advisory Board on the results of the
project, its successes and failures and a full accounting of how the funding was utilized. The Executive
Secretary to the Advisory Board shall visit each grant receiving NGO at two points, first prior to
disbursing the second tranche grant at grant implementation mid-point and at the completion of the grant,
to review the completion report by the NGO and to develop a summary report on each biodiversity grant
recipient to collate and forward to the Ministry of the Environment and the GEF.
M:\FSLOVAK\ANNEX6.SLO
August 24, 1994



1 6-                                           l 8-                                         20                                         22-
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY PROJECT AREAS
APPROXIMATE PROJECT AREAS
TRANSBORDER AREAS FOR COOPERATION                          f
'     MAJOR TOWNS AND VILLAGES                              /
f503    REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                        50',
" -                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
\/; \_ P O L A N D                         MAIN ROADS
_ ^                                   - -  ~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS 
Ostrava                                                       RIVERS
CZECH ~~~~~~~~~~~- I                          To Kraokw                                                                          I
CZECH                            Ostrovo<3                                                - o   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
R E P U B L I C      Olomouc      ~ -        ~                    wr Kao 
REPUBLIC  Oksmouc  -                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Krakow
.,   ,/7 ,\--                            ,.-l/                                                    ~~S   
Brno7                0 / Zlin      ;Zilina    -                                                       r  v
-~~~~~~  '   ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t ~~~~~~Presov    .r 
0                                                                                        )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/ \                5                                       SSLOVAK  REPUBLQ.                                                    !            UKRAINE
(Pt Banska Bystrica                      Kasice
To Vienna  *  ' IIn                                                                                                                       L  To -o,
Trnava 
(I  1            - rnoo                                      \                8[       hTa Budapesti
AUSTRIA   ~~~  / ~~t~~Ovo         0 Nitra
AU ST R IA           :     Brtslava .e1  _-,
48                                                                           ------                                                                                            48'
To Vi enna                -o B_aps                                                                                    -   /
<                 --- ~     ~ ~~- -i             T* BOudapest     HU NG AR Y                                              J
Ta Budapest                                                                                         ROMANBA
The boundaries colors. denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,                                                                                                            _
ony judgment on the legal status of ony territory, or any endorsement  0          50              00            50
or acceptance of such boundaries                                                                                                     *
z                                                                                           KILOMETERS                                   j                                            .s
1 16o                                              18                                           20                                        222






BRED 23938R I
T. S...                                                POLAND
z*      CZECH REPUBLIC
f ~~~~~~~~~~~~Blig6                                                                                                                                                                  - .  1r"a  
1   0       }\J~~~~~~~/ ~          SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
I  ~~~~~~~~AUSTRI A
\ kP O L A N D                                              >                                                . POLAND, SLOVAK REPUBUC AND UKRAINE
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROJECTS
EAST CARPATHIAN
BIOSPHERE RESERVES
-PROPOSED NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY
PROPOSED INTERNATIONAL BIOSPHERE
RSERVE BOUNDARY
N.t  <   ' \             -       jg                              -  -  BOUNDARY OF *STUZICA- NATIONAL RESERVE
V.v a -                                                         ,_        N,        (                                  /                                  ZONES:
(                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CORE
}z< ' _ \ \ \a                                                                                                                             BUFFER
-.  -                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRANSITION
O..dnbo                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
-RAILROAD
. _,                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
N                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 OTHER TOWNS AND VILLAGES
tF  Jo                                                                  v   \8                           \                j)    -*-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
cl>Voli.1 Poono ,                        (                                                          N '.
- N. S.dlica     v                -                           -N            '---
JSL   VAK    RIEPUBLICSTPI'--''?US To                                     .                  "''    .---                               , yPotokZ60i
j    n sio      >             J            /-/-                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~u K R A I N E       t>
ro H.cnn                               Koln6 Rovtok     (       --;                                                                                                                           0 A  2    A  6    B    I0 KILOMETERS
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o .6, ..* o*p' do "o o.ply on the po, oh jh Woni,d Bos& G'op.
oh- -n..  -. of   --onE bo.odo-n.,,..
JUNE 1994






-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
GERMANY __                      POLAND
.,                                             / i                                                  SLOVAK REPUBLIC
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~NATIONAL PARKT BOUNDARY
IGEF  BIODIVEtRSK ITY  PROJECT                                                                  -       OUNDARY I NATONAL PARK PROTECTION ZONe
TATRAS BIOSPHERE RESERVES                                                                         ZONES
I T j Z G~~~~ CORE
/    ~~~~~~  ~BUFFER
AUSTRIA                    UNG TAARYIrlON
HUNGARY                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POLANCD - ABuTrING NATIONAL PARK
BAAI ROADS
_ ~~~~~AP.-                                                                                                             RAILbROADS-\
sSE   CITIES AND TOWNS
0    OTHER TOWNS AND VILLAGES
INERNATIONLAL BOUNDARY
(-                                                                                               / v_ ob )      /
% <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Po.W&  NOsa.z-okbn 
z1os-                                                                                                                                _ Pi
Zorub=  oi                                                                                         gSQnowo 1)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t.pP wotbbio   <   /   hewm on 16| moD ds nDI mAly onh Dorl of rbe Worb' E & Grox/p.  /   9~/    v/               9         -ri
/ >6l */lud~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7-sl hldlmrslntrv rnnolmn   a
I  /   =  cc@bonec  o  suc  bou/n r*s k luPiE 1 .a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7






F~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X   0 ,'o
yrOl,o.O
CZECH REPUBLIC and SLOVAK REPUBLIC                                          )     2        ) @\         SO A
GEF BIODIVERSITY PROJECTSI                                                                     i\
PALAVA / MORAVA                                                                  J \ \ P)A AVA
t  /,    \REPUBLIC
lONES IREFER TO TEXTI)gW    vli  
ZONE I                                                      (    /-  L6re ^   _ \ rudv;e
.'*.|e.  ZONE 11                               ,h.-
Ji 2' ZONE  11 I.t   
l    ZONE IV                                             /OGr|
77  AUSTEIA HRIITTINO PROTECTED AREA                 2               
-    MAIN TOADS                                                  MR
.  RAIIROADS    PROJECTS
J SELECTED CITIESANDATOWNS                      |     (IacIy/
Z OTHER TOWNS AND VILAGES|
,      RIVETS                                         |      .                           iO;.
A        5 INTEENATIONAL ROUNDARYOTEC
T     2    4      6    R      OILOMTTEELSOADS
IL'. boo nd=re :ooo d, o,.A.poooIJ 5.'  
OTHER TOWNSee    AN VILAGE
'~~~ ~      INTRNPONLABONDAR
_        _JGI E=LE                                      /                   1               l 
Zx~~~~                    ~~ 0JC;  NFERIf 5 ,./1 
O     ,,)\     2                     PEPUREIIC  )J> s7E
..  />.-Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.
6>    AUSTRiA  ~       ,r"                                           1                      7             on BrotiSlovo 
M                    U    STi  I  A t  H UNG ARiY    /   
0   -__ _          2                        P_______                           ____ . 






I



P
e Printed on r ecycled paper



