Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF028644
Global Environmental Trust Fund
Grant Agreement
(Biodiversity Protection Project)
between
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated September 16, 1993
TF028644
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1993, between SLOVAK REPUBLIC (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds 
provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) into the Global 
Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
(B)
certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided resources by 
way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed, 
to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes of, and in accordance 
with, provisions of the Resolution;
(C)
the MacArthur Foundation intends to make available to the Foundation for 
Eastern Carpathian Biodiversity Conservation (the Foundation), to be established 
pursuant to an agreement to be entered into by Ukraine, Poland and the Recipient, a 
grant in the amount of the equivalent of $300,000;
Page  2
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resolution; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9),  (10), (11), 
(15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term 'Special Drawing Rights' and the symbol 
'SDR' mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account.
Page  3
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"PMCU" means the project management and coordination unit referred to in 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
"Project Area" means the zones of the Eastern Carpathian Mountains, the 
Tatra Mountains and the Morava Floodplains in the territory of the Recipient;
(c)
"Biodiversity Zone" means the East Carpathian Mountains, the Morava 
Floodplains or the Tatras Mountains;
(d)
"Joint Scientific Advisory Committee" means each regional scientific 
advisory committee referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement to be established by 
the Ministry of Environment within each Biodiversity Zone;
(e)
"NGO" means non-governmental organization;
(f)
"Tri-national Biosphere Reserve" means the contiguous biosphere reserves 
located in the territories and on the borders of Ukraine, Poland and the Recipient; 
and
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in dollars in a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Trustee on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against 
set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i)  
carry out the Project through the Ministry of Environment with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices 
and with due regard to ecological and environ- mental factors; (ii) maintain in real 
terms the current level of funding from its own resources for biodiversity protection 
activi- ties in the Project Area; and (iii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall make available the equivalent of $300,000 of the 
Grant to the Foundation for purposes of supporting its activities under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Trustee.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
Page  4
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall maintain the PMCU within the Ministry of 
Environment, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, with qualified and 
experienced staff in adequate numbers, under the supervision of a Project coordinator, 
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall, by October 31, 1993, make appropriate 
administrative and financial arrangements for carrying out Project activities at the 
Tatras National Park.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall, by October 31, 1993, establish a Joint 
Scientific Advisory Committee in each Biodiversity Zone, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Trustee, com- prised of members whose qualifications and 
experience are satis- factory to the Trustee, to meet and review on a semi-annual 
basis the scientific progress of Project implementation in the respective Biodiversity 
Zone.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall ensure that Project activities are carried out 
only on land owned by the Recipient or on land to which the Recipient has rights under 
long-term contractual arrangements consistent with the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin- ciples 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GET Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GET Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  5
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expen- diture submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement, namely, the establishment of the PMCU and 
the appointment of the Project coordinator referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Stefanovi_ova 5
81308 Bratislava
Slovak Republic
Telex:
923-65
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C., as of the day and year first above written.
SLOVAK REPUBLIC
By /s/ Lubomira Zimanova
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GET Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
  GET Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
140,000
100%
(2)
Goods and
360,000
100%
equipment
(3)
Consultants'
500,000
100%
services and
training
(4)
Operating costs
430,000
100%
(salaries,
operations and
maintenance)
(5)
Unallocated
270,000
TOTAL
    1,700,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 18,000, may be made in respect of start-up costs for the PCMU, 
including professional development and training, computer equipment and the 
establishment of an electronic mail system on account of payments made for 
expenditures under Part C.5 of the Project before that date but after July 1, 1993; 
and (b) in respect of the transfer to the Foundation pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement, unless arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the establishment 
and operation of the Foundation have been finalized and an account for the Foundation 
opened, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, in a financial 
institution, satisfactory to the Trustee, outside the territory of Ukraine, Poland and 
the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to provide demonstrations to protect and 
strengthen forest, meadow and wetlands habitats and related ecosystem biodiversity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Biodiversity Protection Program
Page  7
1.
Planning - East Carpathians.
(a)
Development of an overall management strategy for the Tri-national 
Biosphere Reserve.
(b)
Development of a management plan for the Eastern Carpathians Biosphere 
Reserve.
2.
Biodiversity Management.
(a)
Forest Restoration - East Carpathians.
Support for ongoing forest restoration activities, including an assessment of 
the silvicultural system required to develop a sustainable forest ecosystem and 
restoration of priority sites.
(b)
Alpine Meadow Ecosystems - East Carpathians.
Carrying out of trial management techniques in the form of maintenance of 
traditional agriculture and mowing of alpine meadows.
(c)
Catchment and Water Management - Restoration - East Carpathians.
Development of a plan to address soil erosion and guidelines for the sustainable 
management of the buffer and transition zones.
(d)
Forest Restoration - Tatras National Park.
Provision of extraction and storage equipment and improvements to a greenhouse.
(e)
Restoration - Morava Floodplains.
Establishment of a series of model projects to determine the techniques, 
potentials and benefits of restoration of the Morava River ecosystems.
(f)
Planning - Morava Floodplains.
Planning of restoration activities, including the assessment of the biotopes and 
their appropriate land use, preparation of a biotope mapping program and carrying out 
of a planning workshop.
3.
Professional Development and Training.
A study tour to investigate mechanisms for the determination of carrying 
capacity, a workshop with other GEF project areas on the management and implementation 
of geographic information standards and specialist training for GIS managers.
4.
Systematic Environmental Investigation and Monitoring at Tatras National Park:
(a)
Analysis of bioindicator species, including bird feathers and bones for 
heavy metals.
(b)
Mapping and analysis of mesozoic carbonate rocks and their influence on 
natural communities of the karst ecosystems.
(c)
Establishing the High Tatras Research Center as an international 
distribution center for information on current activities in conservation 
environmental science.
(d)
Telemetric monitoring of critically endangered species.
Part B:
Conservation Program
1.
Buffer Zone Strategies - Management and Use.
Developing models for the buffer zone management in the biosphere reserve target 
areas, especially in their support zones.
2.
Carrying Capacity and Revenue Generating Mechanisms.
Examination and determination of the appropriate carrying capacities of selected 
environments and examination of the mechanisms, institutional, legal and practical 
Page  8
arrangements to use economic measures to maintain carrying capacity at an acceptable 
level.
Part C:
Institutional Infrastructure Improvement Program
1.
Protected Area Facilities.
(a)
Establishment of park radio communications systems for the East 
Carpathian National Park and Tatras National Park.
(b)
Completion of the nature center at Tatras National Park.
(c)
Establishment of an education and research facility at the East 
Carpathian National Park.
2.
Computerization, Monitoring and Data Management.
Development of an integrated system of monitoring and data management, including 
strengthening the conservation data base and development of information-data 
management systems, and development of a computer-based information exchange system.
3.
Joint Scientific Advisory Committees - Morava Floodplains, 
East Carpathian 
Mountains, and Tatras National Park.
Establishment of joint scientific and advisory committees for Morava 
Floodplains, East Carpathian Mountains and Tatras National Park to make 
recommendations regarding common conservation and management objectives for each 
region.
4.
Environmental NGO Small Grants Program.
Establishment and administration of an NGO small grants program to support the 
implementation of small biodiversity protection projects.
5.
Project Management.
Strengthening of Project management through the establishment of the PMCU within 
the Ministry of Environment.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $400,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three 
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines), in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
2.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three 
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Trustee.
3.
Goods of a proprietary nature estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $200,000 may be purchased from suppliers on the basis of 
negotiated contracts in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
4.
Civil works for Part C.1 (c) of the Project estimated to cost up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $135,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Trustee.
Page  9
5.
Civil works for Part A.2 (e) of the Project estimated to cost up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $125,000 may be carried out by the Recipient 
through force account.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
The Recipient shall employ management, environmental and other consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and condi- tions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Ministry of Environment shall be responsible for overall coordination of the 
Project.
2.
The PMCU shall be responsible for implementing the technical and scientific 
activities of the Project to be carried out in the Project Area and shall coordinate 
said activities with the coordinating office in each Biodiversity Zone and with the 
Foundation. This unit shall be staffed by the Project coordinator, a scientific 
adviser and an accounts specialist/administrative assistant.
3.
The PMCU shall expedite disbursements from the Special Account, facilitate 
international communications, coordinate international professional development 
training, monitor and evaluate Project progress and collate and forward quarterly and 
annual progress reports to the Trustee on Project progress.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Page  10
Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the GET Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GET Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the GET Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
