DOcuMeal of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqimt N  P-3885-DJI
REPORT AND RECO&1ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TE
INTERAlTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
PROPOSED IDA (REDIT POR SDR 5.1 tMLLION
(US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF DJIBDUTI
FOR AN
EDUCATION PROJECT
JANUARY 2nd, 1985
ThIs dscums. bm a biikdu dkbBWM=m d moy be mod by ,eh. eml' Iay in the perfemmewe of
dhei eUda datuialbP 1k u-ak mmy   -&a huph be disclosed wlhfWoul BoOk aUhdmmzglaa. 



CURRENCY EQuIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =       ED
USS.00                 FD 177_7
FD 1,000          -      USS5.6
VD 1,000          -     US$5,6Z7
SDR 1.00                 US$0.996
US$1.00                  SDR 1.004
WEIGErS AND MEASURES
1 cm  - cenriaeter      =          0.39 inches
I m   - meter           -          3.28 feet
1 m3  - cubic meter                264 US gallons
1 km - kilometer        =          0.62 miles
1 km2 - square kilometer =         0-39 square miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIAIIONS AhD ACRONYMS
ADF      -    African Development Fund
DGEN     -    Direction Gagrale de 1'Education Nationale
(Directorate Ge,-zal of Nationa-l Education)
MmE      -    Xinistry of -ational Education, Youth and Sports
MOF      -     Ministry o- Finance and National Economy
MPw      -    Ministry ot Public Works
PTF     -     Project Task Force
SDF      -     Saudi Develop.-unt Fund
FISCAL YEAR
Januar 1 -- December 31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
DJIBOUTI
Education Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Djibout-
t             Beneficiary:       Ministry of National Educaticn, Youth and Sporrs (MNE)
Amount:            SDR 5.1 million (USS5.0 uillion equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project Description:
Objectives:      The objectives of the project are: (i) to expand and
improve primary education in underprivileged urban and
rural areas; and (ii) to improve the management of the
education system through educational planning and
evaluation.
Comsponents:     (a) Urban primary scuools. Establishment of two new
schools in underprivileged areas of Djibouti-City
enrolling 1,800 students.
Cb) Rural primary schools. Establishment of four new
schools and expansion of four existing school-s in rural
areas enrolling 1,300 students.
(c) Management of education. Strengthening educational
planning and evaluation through three man-years of
technical assistance and two man-years of fellowships (to
be financed under the ongoing Technical Assistance
Project, Credit 1232-DWI).
Benefits:     The proposed project would assist the Government in
improving the delivery of primary education opportunities
to the most underprivileged segments of the population,
and in improving the efficiency and quality of education
through better management of the system. The project
would benefit 3,100 primary school-age children,
representing an increase of 10 percent over 1983/84
primary enrollment. Some of the schools would also serve
as literacy and community development centers. The
technical assistance component would help ensure the best
use of available resources through planning and
assessment of educational performance.
This document has a reunoed dstfououan and may be used by reapwnts only in the performance of
ther offi*cal dutis Its ontets may not otherws be dmdosed unthout Wodd Bank authbonzau



- iI -
uski:    Risks are judgeZ zinul because of the siula dsign of
th. proJect and the fmet that schools si.lw to thos
enviae  ae already effectively and routinely
constructed by the MME trough contractors   d district
departmental force. The risk of l r tha  epected
rural   Umnts ha  been vinimize  by a sivy of the
demand for education in the catchuent area  concernd,
and the proposed adoptio of a cost-efficient school
model, already successfully   Ieuentmd under similar
circuutances.
Estimted Costs:                                          -us$ xilioai-- 
Local Forein Total
(a) Urban Primary schools                       1.06     0.80    1.86
(b) Regional Prlmary schools                    2.25     1.67    3.92
Cc) Project administration                      0.01     0.05    0.06
Total Base Cost                           3.32     2.52    5.84
Physical Contingencies                    0.33     0.25    0.58
Price Contingencies                       0.55     0.42    0.97
Total Project Cost                        4.20a/  3.19    7.39
a of which 0.7 million taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                                              USS Million-
Local  Foregn Total
IDA Credit                                          1.8       3.2     5.0
Government of Djibouti                              2.4        -      2.4
Total                                      4.2a/    3.2      7.4
al of which 0.7 million in taxes and duties.
Estimated Disbursements:
-S$ Million-
IDA FY          85          86        87         38         89
Annual          0.9         1.2       1.6        1.0        0.3
Cumulative      0.9         2.1       3.7        4.7        5.0
Economic Rate of Return:  :Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5215-DI
Map:                       IBRD No. 18246



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPKENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ~
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Djibouti for SDR 5.1 million (US$5.0
million equivalent) on standard iMA ter1r to beip financz an educatiou
project.
PART I - THE ECONON
2.      An economic report, entitled -DjiboutL: Economic Situation and
Prospects-, wa distributed to the Executive Directors on October 19,
1984.
Structural Characteristics
3.      The Republic of Djibouti is a small arid country located at the
mouth of the Red Sea. Its land area of 23,000 square kilometers is
bordered on the north, west and southwest by Ethiopia and on the southeast
by Somalia. Although the results of a population census taken in January
1983 are not yet available, the 1982 population was estimated by the
Government at about 330,000. In addition, there is a refugee population
estimated at about 42,000. Djibouti became an independent nation in 1977
and joined the World Bank in 1980.
4.      The country is characterized by a rugged topography, with
elevations ranging from 150m below sea level to 2000m above. Its climate
is very dry and hot, and in the absence of any perennial rivers, the lack
of water is a major physical constraint. An estimated one million head
of livestock are herded by the nomad population, who comprise roughly
20 percent of the total population. Because of the scarcity of water and
harsh climate, only about 250 hectares are cultivazed, although about
6,000 hectares are deemed to be potentially cultivable. The country's
fishing potential is just beginning to be exploited. There are few proven
natural resources except for salt, limestone, gypsum, other raw materials
used in the production of cement, and some geothermal potential. The
manufacturing sector is limited to a number of small-scale establisnments
producing for the domestic marketz
5.      In spite of its unfavorable climate and limited resources,
Djibouti has nevertheless been able to benefit from its strategic location
and its historical and regional ties to build upon the service-oriented
economy inherited upon independence. Thus, while both the primary and
secondary sectors are very underdeveloped, accounting for only 6 per-cent
and 15 percent of GDP respectively, there is a relatively dominant and



active tertiary sector associated with the port of Djibouti, the railway to
Ethiopia, the international airport, a private banking system which handles
some offshore business, and the presence of a relatively large number of
French military and civilian personnel. The economy is a highly open one,
notable for its complete lack of trade barriers and exchange restrictions,
and rhere is a free trade zone at the port. To finance both current and
capital expenditures, the Government has depended heavily on foreign grants
and loans, which have made it possible to sustain large trade deficits.
6.       In a number of respects, Djibouti 's structural characteristics are
similar to those of other least-developed countries, while in other
respects taey are exceptional. Among the exceptional characteristics are
the extent to which the economy is service-oriented (as noted above),
urban, open and aid-dependent. At the same tine, the country's lov le-vel
of development is reflected not only Lu the level of per capita Income of
its indigenous population, but also in terms of various social indicators.
7.       Djibouti's per capita income was estimated in 1982 at about
US$880.  This average has to be interpreted, how2ver, in the context of a
relatively large foreign population and a high degree of income
dispersion. The 16,000 registered wage earners received average incomes of
US$3,500 whereas the average income of the 100,000 rural and nomadic
population was well below US300. The per capita adjusted income of the
indigenous population as a whole was estimated at US$480, thereby
qualifying Djibouti for inclusion in the United Nations list of
least-developed countries.
8.       Approximately two-thirds of Djibouti 's population live in the
capital city. As a consequence of the inflow of refugees, the total
population has been growing at a rate of about 5.4 percent per
annumr-substantially above the national rate of population increase,
estimated at 3 percent. There is no official population policy regarding
either immigration/emigration or family planning. Djibouti spends close to
6 percent of its GDP on health services, but these are concentrated on
curative rather than preventive public health measures; life expectancy is
estimated at 45 years and infant mortality at 30 per thousand births.
9.       Djibouti's heavy reliance on expatriate administrators and
technicians is a reflection of the cou-ntry's underdeveloped human resource
base. The literacy rate is only 10 percent, and the primary, secondary and
higher level enrollment ratios are estimated at 41 percent, 10 percent and
0.6 percent, respectively.
10.      The economy suffered a decline in the years immediately after
independence in June 1977, reinforced by the outbreak of bostilities
between neighboring Ethiopia and Somalia. In 1979 Djibouti started to
recover as the result of increased investment, especially in the
construction and commercial sectors. Coupled with increased capital
expenditures by the public sector, these developments contributed to an
estimated average grovth rate of real gross domestic product (GDP) of
3.4 percent per annum in 1979-81. Since 1982 growth has, hwvever, been
such lower. Real per capita GDP has been on a downward trend since
independence, partly as the result of immigration from neighboring



-3-
countries. This movement, together with the steady entry into the labor
market of school leavers, has tended to intensify the problem of
unemployment in recent years.
11.       Djibouti's fiscal performance following independence was
reasonably satisfactory Lp to 1981, surpluses, averaging 4.1 percent of
GDP per annum during 1979-81, were invested abroad, which resulted in the
accrual of relatively substantial investment income. However, in 1982
financial imbalances began to emerge in the operations of the public
sector, reflecting partly the slowdown of economic growth but also a
reduction in the rate of collection of direct taxes and broad exeaptions
granted under the investment codei. At the same time, expenditures rose
from 46 percent of GDP in 1981 to 56 percent of GDP in 1982. This
reflected mainly an increase in investment expenditures, but also the
inclusion in the budget for the first time of the expenditures for the
national army. While foreign grants earmarked to cover defense
expenditures were reduced, there was also a noticeable rise in subsidies to
public and semipublic enterprises. As a result of these developments, the
Government's transactions recorded a deficit equivalent to 8.4 percent of
GDP. The deterioration in the Central Government's operations was
compounded by a pronounced drop in foreign grants from DF 11.2 billion in
1981 to DF 7.9 billion in 1982. The estimated deficit for 1983 of
DF 5.0 billion (7.6 percent of GDP) represents only a marginal improvement
over the performance in 1982, despite a substantial reduction &n
expenditures by 12 percent, as foreign grants continued to decline to about
DF 4.8 billion. In order to finance the overall deficits, deposits with
domestic and foreign banks were drawn down and loans negotiated.
12.       Since independence, the Government has fostered the creation of
public and semipublic enterprises to provide social and economic services
in various fields, particularly where private sector participation was
nonexistent or deemed inadequate. The combined financial accounts of these
enterprises showed modest operating surpluses up to 1980, but they have
incurred losses since then. These losses were partly the result of a
deliberate Government policy of not permitting price adjustments to reflect
fully the increases in costs of specific goods and services, e.g., wheat
flour and port services.
13.       Up to 1981 Djibouti's balance of payments was characterized by
large balance of trade deficits that were more than offset by the sum of
net receipts on services and official unrequited transfers.  As a result,
overall surpluses were realized, and official net foreign exchange reserves
reached a peak in early 1982 equivalent to about SDR 84.5 million,
corresponding to some six months of imports. In 1982, exports (most of
which are re-exports to foreigners stationed in Djibouti) fell by
8.5 percent, mainly as a consequence of the reduction in purchasing power
of these foreigners. Meanwhile, total imports remained essentially
unchanged, so lnports not destined for re-export increased sharply from
about 24.5 percent to 30.5 percent of GDP. This increase reflected partly
the rise in investment-related imports of capital goods, as well as the
strong effective appreciation of the Djibouti franc. At the same tine, net
receipts from services and official transfers declined sharply, and the
current account turned from a surplus amounting to 4.1 percent of GDP in
1981 to a deficit of 12.4 percent of GDP in 1982. The deficit was financed
by drawing on foreign loans and an inflow of private capital, and the



-4-
overall balance of payments remained-in surplus. Howeves, in 1983 the
continued finAncial imbalances in the public sector led to an overall
balance of payments deficit of SDR 17.2 million, as dravings on foreign
loans slowed and the flow of private capital was reversed.
14.       Monetary developments during the period 1979-81 mainly reflected
favorable developments in the balance of payments and in substantial
external budgetary support. With net foreign assets of both the Treasury,
and the comercial banks Increasing, credit to the private sector grew at
13.0 percent. In 1982 this pattern was broken as Government deposits with
the commercial banks declined and net foreign assets fell. Money growth
accelerated to 23 percent as growth in credit to the private sector
continued at a rate of about 40 percent despite the slowdown in economic
activity. The rate of inflation, mueasred by changes in consumer prices
for expatriates and dominated by the development of import prices and
exchange rate movements, declined from 5.6 percent in 1981 to -2.4 percent
in 1982 but rose again in 1983 to at least 1.0 percent.
15.       The public and publicly guaranteed external debt of Djibouti is
still small and consists mostly of concessionary loans; at the end of 1982
outstanding disbursed debt amounted to SDR 36.3 milL1on or 11.3 percent of
GDP, with a debt service equivalent to 2.4 percent of exports of goods,
services. and private transfers. However, the debt servile ratio is likely
to at least double by 1987, as the grace periods of recently contracted
loans begin to expire.
Planning and Aid Coordination
16.       The main concern of the authorities is to achieve a satisfactory
and sustainable rate of growth. Given the very limited natural and human
resources of the country and its unique location, recourse to an open
economy, driven by an active private service sector, is a logical choice.
However, the services sector, which is very sensitive to external shocks,
has so far not been able to generate a sustainable rate of growth or to
generate enough foreign exchange to meet growing import expenditures.
Therefore, a redirection of efforts is being made towards a broadenIng of
the economic base (small scale industry, fishaing, transport, livestock and
even agriculture), while trying to improve the performan-e of the service
sector.
17.       A donors conference was held in Djibouti in November 1983.  It
was organized with the help of the UNDP and the Bank and vas aimed at
broadening international support to the country and reversing the trend of
declining concessionary assistance. A five-year investment program was
proposed to the Conference. The main objective of the program is to
correct the structural weaknesses of the economy through efforts at
diversification, development of human resources; and the continuing build
up of essential infrastructure. The size of the proposed program was
US$570 million of which US$240 million had already been secured and
USS20 million was to be financed from domestic resources. Out of the
remaining US$310 million, assurances of US$230 million were apparently
secured at the Conference, although expressions of interest for some
sectors were apparently in excess of need. In addition, there were a
number of offers of lncreased technical assistance, which the Government
considers critical, given its past-lbsorptive capacity probleos.



PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DJIBOUTI
18.       Djibouti joined the Bank and the Association on October 2, 1980.
The Bank Group assistance strategy is aimed at helping to strengthen the
country's economic management and development institutions, meet the basic
needs of some of the poorest parts of the population, develop natural
resources such as geothermal energy and improve human resources training.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1984.
19.       The proposed Education project would be the fifth Bank Group
operation in the country, after the US$3.0 million credit for a Technical
Assistance project approved in 1982, the US$6.4 million credit for a
Highway maintenance project approved in 1983, the US$6.0 million credit
for a Geothermal Exploration project approved in May 1984, and the
US$5.0 million credit for an Urban Development project approved in
September 1984. None of these projects has yet been completed and no audit
reports are available.
20.       The Technical Assistance project, cofinanced with a parallel
contribution of US$1.46 million from UNDP, is designed to improve the
Government's capabilities to formulate an appropriate development strategy,
to coordinate development efforts and to engage in planning, project
preparation and monitoring. The project provides two long-term advisors to
the Planning Directorate and one to the Statistics Directorate. In
addition to training, equipment and vehicles, it also finances a Project
Preparation and Sector Studies Fund to conduct background and feasibility
studies necessary to design and implement a development strategy. The
planning component of the project has encountered difficulties and a major
reorganization of planning is now under way.
21.       The Highway Maintenan-e project consists of a three-year road
improvement and maintenance program, including resurfacing of 25 km,
routine maintenance of other roads, as well as provision of equipment,
workshops, studies, technical assistance, and training. The project has
been initiated satisfactorily.
22.       The Geothermal Expleration project is cofinanced with the Italian
Government, the OPEC Fund, the African Development Bank and the UNDP. The
objective of the project is to prove the availability of counercial
geothermal reserves in the Hanle/Gaggade area on the basis of extensive
geoscientific work carried out in several areas of Djibouti. The project
consists primarily of the drilling of up to four deep exploratory wells
(about 2,000 m. each) and the carrying out of complementary surface
exploration in the Gaggade sub-area; it includes technical assistance and
training for the local implementing agency, as well as power studies to be
carried out by the local power utility. If and when developed, the
expected reserves would substantially reduce the country's current total
reliance on imported fuel to satisfy its energy needs.
23.       The Urban Development project is cofinanced with USATD and the
CCCE. The objectives of the project are to improve the living conditions
of the urban poor in Djibouti and to strengthen the capacity of the key
agencies involved in the urban sector. The project includes upgrading and



- 6 -
drainage works for poor areas and squatter settlements in Djibouti City, a
sites and services development, technical and institutional support.
including training and equipment to various urban developm-ent agencies and
housing credit to improve existing homes and construction of new ones.
Detailed designs for the infrastructure works to be carried out during the
initial implementation period are being prepared.
24.       The Bank participatel in the Donors' Conference of November 1983
where the Government presented its investment program for the period
1984-88 (see para. 17). A technical secretariat to the 'Comite de
Surveillance' of the Donors Conference was established with the task of
monitoring the overall evolution of the Djiboutian economy, and of
preparing and monitoring the projects for which financing has been
obtained. To strengthen this secretariat and develop the planning
function, the Bank has assigned to it the project economist and the
macroeconomist of the Technical Assistance project. Assistance of outside
consultants financed by the Studies Fund will also be provided.
25.       With this Education Project the Bank's initial program in
Djibouti will be completed. The program that we have put in place gives
the Bank a good opportunity to provide continuing advice to the Government
on the development of its key sectors.  Further project preparation will
depend on Government performance in the sectors represented by the projects
in place - i.e. transport, power, urban and education, and on the outcome
of i-scussions we will soon hold with the Government on its investment
program.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
26.       The structure of formal education in Djibouti consists of six
years of primary education; four years of junior secondary and three years
of senior secondary general education. Primary teacher training is
provided through a two-year course following completion of at least junior
secondary education. Higher education is offered through fellowships
abroad. Education is provided by Government public schools,
Government-aided private schools teaching official programs, and
independent private schools teaching Koranic or foreign Arab programs.
Major Issues
27.       Despite substantial progress since independence in 1977,
particularly in primary and junior secondary education, enrollment ratios
in primary and secondary education are still low (41 percent and 10 percent
respectively). The output of the system is also low: only 29 percent of
the candidates for the primary school leaving certificate, 33 percent of
the candidates for admission to general secondary education and 50 percent
cf the candidates for the junior secondary certificate passed in 1983.
Secondary pass rates could be substantially raised if the quality of
secondary education were not adversely affected by the deficiencies of
primary education.



- 7 -
28.       Absenteeism is high in remote rural areas due to difficulty of
access to schools, inadequate provision of food programs and
accommodation, and socio-economic traditions involving students in their
parents' agro-pastoral activities. Repetition is limited to 10 percent per
grade through a strictly enforced regulation. The only exception is the
last grade of primary education (Grade 6) in which over 40 percent of
students repeat the year. The examination system is utilized not only to
test students' knowledge but also to screen entrants to higher programs on
the basis of the highest test scores. As competition is high, examinations
tend to dictate the contents of the course, whatever the curriculum, and
memory prevails over reasoning and life skills.
29.       The major causes of the deficiencies of primary education are:
(a) Teachers' insufficient qualifications. Over a quarter of
primary teachers are still underqualified. The Primary
Teacher Training Institute, established in 1980 with French
assistance, cannot yet recruit a sufficient number of
trainees to fill its facilities (120 student places), due to
the inadequate quality of many applicants. This problem
will be alleviated in time as the education system expands
and improves.
(b) The language problem. French is the official language and
the language of instruction, although outside official
business and school the vernacular languages, Afar and
Somali, are dominant. Primary students do not acquire an
adequate mastery of French, mainly due to teachers'
inadequate preparation for teaching French as a foreign
language. The issue is expected to be alleviated with the
progressive improvement of teachers' qualifications and
on-going adjustment of the teaching method and course
content to the specific linguistic situation in Djibouti.
tc) Malnutrition. This severe, widespread problem, together
with low health levels, adversely affects primary students'
e                        performance.  The proposed project would help alleviate this
issue through the expansion of the infrastructure required
in primary schools to deliver food programs for children.
30.       Recent progress has greatly alleviated the imbalances in
education opportunities between the various areas within Djibouti-City, and
between the Capital area and the interior districts. The rural population
now represents about one-third of the total population and 27 percent of
primary students are enrolled in rural schools. Within Djibouti-City, a
number of areas still have significant shortages in educational
opportunities, such as Balbala and Gabode in which an estimated 50,000
people live in extreme poverty. In the interior districts, primary
enrollment ratios in a number of areas are well below the national
average. While girls represent 46 percent of primary enrollments in the
Capital area, they represent 32 percent of these enrollments in rural
areas. Girls are still at a disadvantage in rural areas because of the
distance they have to walk from home to school, as well as because their
nomad parents are reluctant to permit them to live away from the family



- 8 -
when no accommodation is available for them at the schools. Pemale
enrollments in rural areas would go up because of the construction of eight
rural primary schools under the proposed project.
31.       Management of Education. The Ministry of National Education,
Youth and Sports (MNE) has administrative, financial and academic control
over the formal education and training system. Other ministries,
particularly those of Labor and Social Affairs, and Health, and national
associations for youth, women and children, also provide non-formal
programs to about 2,600 students. While the MNE administrates the system
adequately, there is virtually no local expertise in educational planning,
programming and evaluation, which is needed to establish an adequate
balance between the various levels and types of education and training,
regulate the flow of students within the system, monitor and assess the
on-going quality and efficiency improvement process and cost saving
measures, coordinate Government agencies involved in education and
training, and channel and control the substantial foreign aid to
education. Educational planning and evaluation services would be provided
under the proposed project to meet this need.
Government Policy and Objectives
32.       The Government is aware that the output and quality of the
education system should be improved and better adjusted to local needs and
constraints. Although no educational development master plan exists, and
priorities and precise ways and means to resolve major issues are still
unclear, the Government has been implementing the following measures
designed to improve the quality and internal and external efficiency of the
system: (a) adjusting teaching programs for French and social and
environmental sciences to local features and requirements; (b) implementing
a practically-oriented in-service teacher upgrading program and reinforcing
French and teaching practice in the pre-service teacher training program;
(c) enforcing strict regulations limiting repetition and fixing age limits
for admission to grade 1; (d) organizing double-shifting, to make the best
use of physical facilities; (e) making textbooks and teachers" guides
available to all students and teachers; (f) introducing tertiary
sector-oriented training programs in high demand and phasing out programs
irrelevant to the local labor market; (g) substantially expanding public
educational opportunities throughout the country with primary and junior
secondary enrollments, increasing respectively by 11 percent and 13 percent
per annum (from about 8,500 to 20,100 and from 2,000 to 5,600 between
1975/76 and 1983/84); and (h) expanding students' feeding programs provided
by the World Food Program and other aid agencies, to alleviate the
malnutrition problem.
33.       For the decade to come, the Government's target for primary
education is to reach a 60 percent admission ratio for 6-year olds in Grade
1 and to enroll about 50 percent of the 6-11 age group in primary schools.
This would result in about 36,000 primary enrollments in public schools by
1992/93, when the proposed project schools are expected to be in full
ooeration. This expansion would be compatible with the expected output of
the teacher training programs and the policy to reduce the proportion of
underqualified teachers. The Government would establish additional schools
in interior villages, expand education in district capitals to slow down



the drain towards Djibouti-City, and meet a portion of the demand for
edcation in poorer areas of the Capital. The Government also int-nd  to
expand junior secondary education in the Capital, and to establish a new
technical secondary school with a view to improvling and expanding
uiddle-level skill training for tertiary sector staff In particmlar.
However, because of the high cost of education in Djibouti, the Government
will have to choose between concentrating on primary targets exclusively or
focussing mainly on expanding junior secondary and technical education.
Educational planning services under the proposed project would help resolve
this issue.
cxternal Assistance
34.       Extensive foreign aid has provided a hig  share of capital
investment in education since independence in 1977. France. Saudi Arabia
and the United Arab Emirates have so far financed the establishment of the
Primary Teacher Training Institute, 93 primary classrooms and five junior
secondary schools. Over half of total French assistance (estimated at
about USS55.0 million annually) goes to education and training. France and
the Arab League, as well as other countries, have provided or financed
teaching, supervisory and administrative staff and fellowships abroad.
UNICEF, USAID, the Arab Labor Organization, and the African Development
Fund (ADF) have supported commercial, vocational and non-formal education.
The Bank Greup assisted in the appraisal of a proposed project to be
fimnaced by the Saudi Development Fund (SDF), estimated at about
US$4.7 million which would inter alia include construction and equipping of
three 12-classroom primary schools, one in each of the three interior
district capitals. Bank Group assistance will be designed to complement
these efforts.
Education Finance
35.       Recurrent expenditures on education in Djibouti are provided
through Government budgetary allocations, and through external assistance
providing teachers, educational materials and food. Public education is
free and private education, which represents only about 9 percent of
overall enrollments, Is also heavily subsidized. Donor agencies provide
most investment financing, with the Government's partizipation in
investeent expenditures usually consisting of limited expansion (including
teachers' housing) or improvements.
36.       Between 1979 and 1982, Government recurrent expenditures in
education grew at an average of 3.4 percent per year in real terms, i.e.
slower than enrollments which increased by over 10 percent p.a. during the
period. This was made possible by holding nominal wage rates constant and
moderately increasing student: teacher ratios . Recurrent expenditures now
account for about 12 percent of the Government's recurrent budget and
3 percent of GNP. The above figures greatly understate the importance
assigned by the Government to the education sector in as nuch as they
exclude the bulk of the expenditures related to technical assistance
financed by donors. If these staff were paid by the Government according
to the local salary scale, the education budget would have to be increased
by 20 to 25 percent, which would severely strain the Government's financial



- 10 -
capacity. Within the recurrent budget of the MNE, the share of secondary
education has increased, principally because of increases in the number of
teachers fully paid by the Government.
37.       Although the salary (excluding housing allowances) of over a
quarter of primary teachers is borne by external donors, the unit cost to
the Covernment per primary student, estimated at about USS320 equivalent
for 1983/84, is high compared with that in other Eastern African
countries. The high unit cost for primary education can be attributed to
high salary levels prevailing in the country where the cost of living is
closer to that of the neighboring Arab world than to that of African
countries. The Government, aware that if education costs are not
contained, its enrollment targets cannot be met, is considering policy
measures to continue to hold nominal wage rates constant, increase the
average primary student:teacher ratio from the present 40:1 to 45:1,
eliminate or limit secondary education scholarships, request parents to
contribute for the provision of textbooks and school Materials, and obtain
community participation for the maintenance of schools.
38.       Since independence Djibouti has made a substantial investment
effort in school construction esti =ated at about US$17 million in the
period 1977 through 1983. Over one-half of these expenditures were made in
support of primary education; slightly over one-fourth in support of
secondary general and technical education; and 15 percent in support of
adult vocational training. Over two-thirds of these expenditures were
financed from external resources. Because of the high cost of
construction, they represent a relatively limited contribution in physical
term as compared with the most urgent educational needs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       Exploratory discussions on the Education Sector were held with
the Government in December 1981 and March 1982. The proposed project was
identified in November 1983. The preparation of a possible education
pr-iect and the related request by the Government for Bank Group financing
was completed with UNESCO's assistance in January 1984. Appraisal took                S
place in March 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington from
November 12 to November 16, 1984. The Djiboutian delegation was led by
E.E. Mohamed Djama Elabe, Minister of National Education, Youth and
Sports. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 5215-DJ1 is being circulated
separazely.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
40.       Bank Group support for basic education is a primary means of
acnieving long-term economic development in Djibouti, since the country's
physical resource base is very limited. Bank Group supvort will complem&zzt
assistance to basic education from, inter alia, Saudi Arabia and France,
and will help to ensure the most economic standards for school
construction. Support for educational planning and evaluation wi^
strengthen Djibouti's capacity to manage its educational system.



- 11 -
Objectives and Project Composition
41.       The proposed project would assist in (a) expanding and improving
primary edmcation in underprivileged areas; and (b) iwproving the
management of the education system through educational planning, and
through monitoring and assessing the ongoing cost-efficiency and quality
improvement process. The proposed project would provide 2,350 new student
places, of which 2,150 would be additional and 200 would replace inadequate
existing facilities. The project would establish new prLmary education
facilities in urban areas, where the demand for such education Is strong
and educational facilities are insufficient, and in rural areas, where it
will help _o increase the populations' participation in the development
process and improve opportunities. It will also contribute to further
improving the balance between educational facilities in Djibouti-City and
in the interior districts. An additional 1,800 student pLaces would be
provided by a proposed Saudi Developament Fund (SDF) project-
42        Technical -2ssistance in educational planning and evaluation would
be financed by IDA under the Technical Assistance project (Credit
1232-DJI), which was approved in 1982 and includes a fund for sectoral
planning. Educational planning would belp establish the mDSt appropriate
and affordable balance between basic education for the majority of the
population and training for the limited number of skilled staff required by
the higher level modern educational sector. Educational evaluation would
assist in assessing and correcting, if required, the educational policies
and programs which seek to make the system more effective with limited
resoerces.
Urban Erimary Schools
43.       The proposed project would provide for two new double-stream
schools to be located in Djibouti-City, in the squatter settlement of
Balbala, where the Bank Group has initiated an urban development project to
start in FY85, and in the Tderprivileged aree of Gabode. Half of the
1,200 student places to be  roviaed in these schools would be utilized on a
double-shift basis and therefoxW, they would accommodate a total of 1,800
new primary students, representing about 17 percent of 1983/84 primary
enrollments in the Capital. The schools would also be utilized as
community centers for literacy and cultural activities through evening
programs. In addition the proposed SDF-financed project (para. 34) would
support three primary schools, one each in the three district towns of
Tadjourah, Ali Sabieb and Dikhil to enroll 2,700 students, and would enable
the Government to cope with the increasing demand for education in these
district capitals.
Rural Primary Schools
44.       The proposed project would also provide for new or extended
facilities for eight rural schools, including staff housing units for
20 teachers and students' accommodation for about half of the students.
The schools would be located in villages where schooling facilities are
insufficient or non-existent although the regional catchment area ensures
permanent full enrollment. This component would include construction and



- 12 -
equipping of four new schools and extension and equipping of four existing
schools, and would provide 1,150 stndent places of which 950 would be
additional and 200 would be replacements. With partial double shifting,
the schools could accommodate a total of 1,300 students and result in an
increase of 17 percent over 1983/84 primary enrollments In the interior.
The schools would also be utilized as community centers for cultural
activities and literacy. Staff housing would be an incentive for teachers,
and a minimIr  of student accommodation and food assistance are a sine qu&
non for nomad parents to send their children to school. The Government bas
agreed to take all appropriate steps to provide the project schools with
an adequate supply of goods and services, and to ensure adequate living
conditions including nutrition program for staff and students in rural
areas (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance
45.       In view of the high quality of the technical assistance provided
by France, only a small technical assistance component would be financed by
IDA. The funds for this purpose would come from the Technical Assistance
project (Credit 1232-DJI) which would finance two man-years of speciaists'
services in educational planning, one man-year in evaluation, and two
man-years of rellowships to upgrade the counterpart staff.
46.       The educational planner's major assignments would be to assist in
implementing a country-wide school mapping exercise and in establishing a
master plan for educational development. The Government has agreed that
the results and recommendations of the master plan and school mapping
exercise would be submitted to the Association for its review and coment
by December 31, 1986 and that the recommendations would be promptly
implemented, taking into account the Association's comments (Section 3.01
(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The educational evaluation
-peclalist would assist in establishing an evaluation mechanism focussing
on the on-going efforts to improve the efficiency and quality of
education. The Government has confirmed that these specialists would be
placed under the direct authority of the Minister of Education as his
advisors (Section 3.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       One man-year of fellowships for foreign training would be
provided to each of the two national counterparts to the above mentioned
specialists.  These counterparts are already involved within the MNE in
activities related to education development programming. The fellovships
would complement the upgrading of the national counterparts by the
technical assistance specialists in Djibouti.
Female Participation in the Project and Education Sector
48.       Over 45 percent of project school enrollments in Djibouti-City
and about one third in rural areas are expected to be girls. A possible
long-term consequence of expanding basic education, benefiting girls in
particular, through the proposed project schools, would be to assist in
reducing population growth, as studies indicate that the fertility rate
starts decreasing with the second generation of educated women. About
34 percent of primary teachers and headmasters are women.



- 13 -
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project has been estimted at
US$7.4 million equivalent, including duties and taxes amounting to about
US$0.7 million, of which US$3.2 million (i.e. 43 percent) is foreign
exchange. Cost estimates for civil works. furniture, equipment and
vehicles were made in consultation with the staff of MNE and the Ninistry
of Public Works (MW) and were derived from data on recently completed
primary education projects in Djibouti. The construction base cost per
sq .., esUimated at about US$600, is high compared with costs iu
neighboring African countries, but similar to costs in neighboring Arab
states. The maun causes of high building cost are high labor costs and
limited competition due to the small size of the market. The costs of
technical assistance and fellowships are based on U.N. rates.
50.       For pbysical contingencies, 10 percent has been added to the base
costs. Price contingencies are based on estimates of inflation rates, both
international and local, as follows: 1984:3.5 percent; 1985:8 percent; and
1986 to 1988:9 percent. Local and foreign inflation rates are assumed to
be similar due to the dependence of the country on imported gnods. Total
price increases are estimated at 15 percent of the base cost plus physical
contingencies.
51.       The financing plan provides for IDA assistance of US$5.0 million
equivalent (75 percent of total project cost net of taxes). In addition,
US$0.5 million would be provided under the Technical Assistance project
(Credit 1232-DJI) to finance the technical assistance component (see
para. 45). The IDA Credit would finance 100 percent of foreign
expenditures (US$3.2 million) and US$1.8 million equivalent of local
costs. The net Government contribution (after subtracting taxes estimated
at US$0.7 million), would amount to US$1.7 million equivalent, which would
represent 25 percent of project costs excluding taxes.
52.       When the proposed project schools are in full operation in
1992/93, the incremental recurrent costs generated by the project are
estimated at an annual US$0.9 million equivalent and would account for
about 6 percent of total recurrent expenditures on education.  Including
the proposed SDF project (para. 34) incremental costs would be raised to a
total of US$1.7 million equivalent, i.e. about 11.5 percent of the MNE
1992/93 recurrent budget.
IMplem entation
53.       The project would be implemented over a period of about four and
a half years, including six nouths for completion of payments and
withdrawals. Project completion is expected by December 31, 1988 with a
Closing Date of June 30, 1989. The implementation schedule is based upon
experience derived from recently completed Government programs and other
primary education projects financed by bilateral agencies, and takes into
account that sites have been selected and that existing standard school
designs, equipment and furniture lists, tender documents and construction
specifications need only to be adjusted to the proposed project. The
Government confirmed at negotiations that all sites for project
institutions, acceptable to the Bank Group, are available and agreed to
provide the sites as and when needed (Section 3.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
54.       Administration. No special nea  arrangenents are requlred for the
implementation of the project since similar projects have been iimplemented
routinely and effectively earlier by the MWE, with the assistance of the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW). A Project Task Force (PTF) within the
General Directorate of Education (DGEN), to be In charge of project
implementation, would comprise, on a part-time basis, the Director General
as project director; the chief of admiajtrative and financial services, as
deputy-director and procurement officer, assisted by the MNE Accountancy
Section; the chief of the construction division of the MPU, responsible for
the design and execution of construction works, and the director of finance
of the Ministry of Finance and National Economy (HOF), responsible for the
financial aspects of the project. The PIF would be responsible for the
overall planning, coordination and execution of the project, and for
liaison with the Association. The list and responsibilities of DGEN, WW
and MOF staff constituting the PTF were officially established by a decree
of the President of the Republic, dated June 7, 1984. The continuance in
force of this decree is dealt with under the remedies of the Association
(Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Funds have been
included for equipment, including a vehicle, internal travel and other
incremental operational costs of the PIT.
Procurement
55.       Procurement arrangements are sur ;r 'zed in the table nest below:
Procurement method
(US$ minions)
Project Category    ICB      LCB                N.A.2 |    TOTAL    l
Civil works         3.45     1.45      0.40      1.55         6.85
t                  i        I(294)   (1 24 (    1   (O)        (4.51)
Furniture, equip-   0.30     0.07                             0.37
ment & vehicles    (0.30)   (0.06)                           (0.36)
I Professional                           0.15  t                0.15
services         I        I        I  (0.12)            I   (0.12)
I                  I        I       1           5         1I
Project adminis-                           
tration                   l        l          1 0.02          0.02
(0.01)       (0.01)
TOTAL                3.75     1.52       0.55     1.57         7.39
(3.24)   (1.30)    (0.45)   (0.01)       (5.00)
1Transportation of labor and construction materials, and remuneration of
2/persounel especially employed for the project.
2 Fcree accouut procedures (labor salaries).
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts including
contingencies financed by IDA under the proposed project.



- 15 -
56.       For civil works. furniture, equipment and vehicles, contracts
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. However civil
works for the eight rural schools would be carried out by existing district
departmental forces, following established force account procedures
acceptable to the Association. Building materials estimated at
US$1.5 million for construction under force account procedures would be
procured through competitive bidding advertised locally, and in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group. A preference of
7.5 percent would be applied to bids from local civil works contractors.
With regard to furniture and equipment, when ICB procedures are used,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margln of preference of
15 percent, or the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
57.       Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles costing less than
US$20,000 equivalent each would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Association. The aggregate total of such contracts is
not expected to exceed US$70,000 equivalent.
58.       Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of
furniture, equipment and vehicles, indicating proposed grouping and cost
estimates, would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk
procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents prior to award would be
required only for contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for civil
works, and US$50,000 equivalent for furniture, equipment and vehicles.
59.       All specialists and consultants would be hired in accordance with
the Bank Group's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Disbursement
60.       Disbursement would be as follows:  (a) 85 percent of total
expenditures for civil works, including transportation of personnel and the
remuneration of the personnel especially employed for the project; (b)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported construction
materials, furniture, equipment and vehicles, or 85 percent of local
expenditures if procured locally, including transportation of such
materials to school sites; (c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or
80 percent of local expenditures for professional services; and (d)
80 percent of total expenditures for project administration excluding
salaries.
61.       All disbursements would be fully documented except for:  (a) work
executed by the district departmental forces utilizing force account
methods; (b) eligible operating expenses for project administration; and,
(c) for all locally purchased expenditures costing less than US$20,000
equivalent for which disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditure (SOE). To ensure a prompt start-up of project operations,
expenditures on building design and site preparation, up to a total of
US$0.25 million equivalent, incurred as from July 1, 1984, would be
financed retroactively.



- 16 -
62.      Special Account.  uI order to ensure that funds for the project
would be made available when needed, a Special Account in US dollars
operated by the PTF would be established at the National Treasury with an
initial deposit of about US$0.5 million to cover about three montbs of
expenditures--which would be drawn from the Credit account after credit
effectiveness. The account would be replenished on the basis of
documentary evidence of payments made from the account for goods and
services required for the project. The opening of an account into which
the initial amount of the Special Account would be deposited would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). No diffic'xlty is anticipated and no exceptional
provision was deemed necessary for obtaining the required counterpart funds
from the national budget during project execution.
Reporting, Evaluation, and 4uditing
63.       Semi-annual progress reports on implementation would be submitted
to the Bank Group by the PTF by each June 30 and December 31 followIng
Credit Effectiveness. In addition, the Government would prepare and send
to the Association for comments within six months from the Closing Date, a
completion report assessing attainment of project objectives.
64.      The PTF would maintain separate accounts for all project
activities in conformity with national accounting practices. The PTF would
prepare an annual report summariziing the financial situation of all project
operations, which would be submitted to the Association. Auditing would be
required on an annual basis for all expenditures financed under the project
with particular attention to those reimbursed under Statemnts of
Expenditure procedures or funds drawn from the Special Account. Anditting
would be performed by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group,
within six months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
Environmental Impact
65.      The project, which includes only simple one-storey structures, is
not likely to have any adverse effect on the environment, as the schools
would be built according to architectural standards and features compatible
with existing buildings in urban areas, or in keeping with the cultural and
geographic environment of the villages.
Benefits
66.      The proposed project would assist the Government in improving the
delivery of primary education opportunities to the most underprivileged
segments of the population, which is a Government priority, and in
providing additional school infrastructure to expand the children's
nutrition programs. The technical assistance component would strengthen
key ministerial services, essential for improving the management of the
system and making the best use of available resources through careful
planning and assessment of educational performace.



- 17 -
Risks
67.       Since this is a first operation in the sector, the project design
has been kept simple as a weans of reducing possible risks. Schools
similar to those envisaged are already effectively and routinely
constructed by the MNE through contractors and district departmental
forces * One risk may be that cultural traditions in remote rural areas may
result in enrollments being somewhat below expectations. This risk has
been minimized by a careful survey of the demand for education in the
catchment areas concerned, the proposed adoption of a cost-efficient school
model, already successfully implemented under similar circumstances, and
the provision of students' accommodation and feeding facilities. Another
risk may be that the on-going food program and external financial and
technical assistance could be terminated. At present, there is no evidence
of such reduction and, *in any event, the MNE gave assurances that the
proposed project schools would be included in these programs (para. 44).
Teachers' commitment may be affected by the INE policy intended to
stabilize salaries. However, this risk is minialzed by the on-going
teacher recruitment and upgrading policy, the provtsion of staff
accommodation, and the limited job opportunities in the modern sector labor
market.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRINS AND ATORITY
68.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Djibouti and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this Report.
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
-                                  PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 2nd, 1985



- 18 -
AJnex I
TABLE s3                                          mi 61   of 6
W~~~~OA  RI. MXCLTES DM SUMCt
wJTn                  -s So5A 11605kA  8
HOST         (HOS Glu     UTfluU) 
lb        rb Rbecur
t.961....   I37O.~    ESUNAZL....  Anici s. 0r7 S3    A. S_ICA S ID EUST
TOTAL                                ZZ.O      ZZ.O         ZZ.O
A0ZCULZDRAL                          2_5       2Z5          2.5
Dim (688)                             ._                    ._ .         1112.9                   1149.8
(KEIWCRAS OF 01. EXVALZHT)        7506.0    4690.0      1619.0          5sv.0                     622.L
POPULM101 AND STEL 3ST1MICSE
POPULATIOIJUD-WEAR CSSDS)           126.0     160.0       330.0               .
URBAN FOPlXATIOW CZ OF TOTAL)       49.6       62Q0        66_0            29_7                     a8.2
POPULATIOS HBZECIZG5
POPUTATIS tig YEAR 2000 (SIL)                              C_6
STATDla  POULAT   (.L)
LOPOLATIMOH EWMI
PDOPULATIs DENSmY
PER sq. i.                          547      7J3          14.5            55.8                    36_3
PERt Sq- 11 ACRI. LAND             51.4      65.3        130.6           111.5                   461.7
POCLATIOI AGE STgLTCRE (-)
0-L4 IRS                            .-        .-         34.0            45.4                     43.6
15-64 IRS                            _                   65.0           51.7                     53.1
65 AID MO-E                                                1.0             2.9                      3.3
PopuLAn11S CeR RamE C()
TOTAL                               2.0       2.4          6.0 IC          2_8                     2.8
633*                                 -        4.7         6.8             5_2                      4.5
CDE aim  RATE (PER TR)                 -          -        49.2            47.0                     40.4
CWDE DEATH RATE (PER THOCS)           ,,                   183             15.2                     11.5
CROSS PEPlODOCTICIS RATE               -                    3.2             3.2                      2.S
FaMELT PEARNS
A11 t O. AHIAL CTWES)                                       -                                     2
w   ir  (,n o ui m68 mwai                                                                            2
IDDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(199-71-100)                                                               91.6                     97.3
ER CAPITA SULY OF
CALORIES C OF MEQffXREUITS)          .         .            ..           98.2                     uo8
PROTEIS (CRAMS PER   )                                      .            56.7                     70.1
OF WIC ! AIXlIWL AOD PULSE                                              17.0                    17.8
CHUM (AG  L-4) CEATS RATE           23.0       16.0        10.0            18.7                     14.6
LIFE EXPECr. AT hAtE (YEARS)                               50.0            51.7                     57.5
IUAThr MOEr. RATE (PEIL TOS)        69.1       32.6        30.0  d,.      102.7                    101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE KATER (XPOP)
TOTAL                                           _        *43.0 /d.f      35.6                     59.7
URRAS                                                    53.0 /6.1       54.1                     84.5
RUIRAL                                         --         20.0 di6       27.3                     38.4                               w
ACCESS TO EICRETA 0ISPOSAL
(: OF POPUXATION)
TOTAL                                ..
URA                                  .         ..           .               .                       ..
POPUATvION Plmt P  IsCIAs         9690.0    3640.0       1960.0         11948.3                   434S_I
POP. FE NURSINS PERSON                        600-0       550.0 i   t     248.9          l33I_1
OP. PE BOSPITAL HED
TOTAL                             190.0     170.0        240.0          98.6-9                    329
URBAN                                -          -        l0 0            36S.7                   545.5
RURAL                                                    420.0          4012.1                  2513.5
ARNISSIOIS P OSPIAL BED                        16.5 /b     13.7  L                                  26.2
AVERE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                          ..          7.0 /_
URA.                                 ..        ...
RU_AL                                ..        ..
AVERAGr *0. OF PERSOS/HOG
TOTAL                                ..        ..
URnU                                 '-        -'
RURAL                                ..         ..
ACCESS 10 ELECT. (2. W UILDCS)
TOL                                            2. ..                                                2
3RMS                                ..77 ..                                                        77.
RURAL                                _.        ..           ..             ..                     161



- 19                                            Annex I
TABLE  L 3                                                or  6
UJISOT          (      - SOCIAL =91CATOS DTA S3MT
DjZDQUT_                                      Cw 0ROWS (UEIUUED rvERm=) =*
IIOST                OST IZMT ESTMDAZ) lb
z l97*c    miiw -*     AiCi S. or sAARA    M. AFrI  S NO LASr
ASTED mmtLUTr RATO
:  TOTAL                             ..         ..         32               91.0                     U.3
-AZZ                                                             90 ..  ..  90.5         102.5
FUEP                      ..          ..          ..73.6                                  73.6
SEONDARY: TOTAL                      ..         ..          8.0             17.4                     43.0
hALE                      ..          ..           ..            23.7                     S 3
FENALE                    ..          ..          ._             14.8                     33.0
VOCATIONAL C: Or SEcOIAT             37.9       44.0         25.3              5.3                     10.3
!MSL-ZCHEt RATLO
PRAIM                              36.0       36.0         44.0             38.6                     30.3
SECOllDAN                          13.0       12.O         19.0             24.3                     23.1
ADUT LZAT  T  (:)                      ..          ..        10.0             35.6                     43.5
PASSENE CAIS/0SAb 10?                  ..       48.7         45.3             20.7                     17.8-
RAIUD    lDaxEvEU/tSM   POP            ..       43.8         54.8            100.8                   1U8.8
IT z   V  S/TO05 4 O0                 ..         6.3         16.1             18.5                     46.1
SOiAPt CVAX 0XENIIL
zm s)    cluaou
PER    AD PopuLA                     ..         ..           ..             17.2                     31.2
C ( ANA ATTI E/cF                      ..         ..          3.3 IT           0.3                      1.7
TOTL LA     OC CTS)                     .         ..         79.2
i       PRCEn)                       ..         ..           ..             33.8                     t0.8
A        E (PERCET)                  ..         ..          L7              57.1                     42.4
NUS    (PERC                         ..         ..         20.6             17.4                      7.9
PARTXIATIO  RATE (PERCE)
TOL                                  ..         ..         24.0             36.3                     26.2
RAZ                                  ..         ..           ..             47.6                     66.4
FL..                                            ..           ..             25.1                      5.8
scOM     lunoE     .. ..                                      1.3              I.&                      1.8
-I 9 or PE7Q= ZICOR
MCSt0            S               ..          ..           ......
IVMT  202C or s                      ..         .......
LOET  20? OrOI       S               ..         ..           .....
DTIMASED ASSN=  POVM         IDCR
LEEL (SS P  CAPITA)
W4                                   ..         .            ..            525.3                    274.8
L                                    ..         .            ..           249.0                     177.2
23TAUZD mIrIE POVT DEVE
LUL (ISS M CAU)
_         cm                                   ..          ..          ..            4'7.4                    406
aL                                  ..          ..           ..            186.0                    264.9
ZSTZ3AD POP.  BEW  AUSOW
- PwVER  micmm LZVl CZ)
_ .v                                      ..         . ... .. .
RURAL                                ..         ..
Mr AVAUA ZV
Nr APPLICABL
N O T 9 S
La   The grasp aveage foer eab indcator am. poplaclow-weUbfd arSt.cStlc mun. Gnar    of countries aowg thE
s*icatonw dep_ads an e aq3ab11tty of date b  Is not   2re_ .
Vais..otbet    noted. "Dta for 2160` reer eo an yea  betwen 1959 and 1964; Dsea for 1970 betw    1969 and
1971; mod"to for 'Met Icest Zutdm te I          1980 e_d 23t
_ ibis high raft 2flet. steady _ 1aeton fm  ealorbl   coustries; /d  03c1   dats; la 1978; If 2976; A 1977;
/b 1972., /I 1975.
3102. 1984



P1Pid     '     84jW. na                   A. au3intT- a
1 - ..LTMJ        vm .a.a  SW  Am
m-  1l"   2912.91             t          I 151Piseww58 t4 M.3 a.
5a.s-- 1-a 2.   321              '3     -  1.1a  lia    -   aa
-  ~     ~           ~           ~           ~           52       131514~~~~~,,.     P12 -5  lea..S.55d-cn            31.
am 0-  -33 .. d-O ~ ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      a     ~-..a.I0511.51  .1   aig  aS                   isa.
155.5~~           .2.15... -ol A..-  as   a    s..-.a.aVsa   .aca-.   Ll.
'OtS            SI 05-   M.3 I-" -"   aa     3   J.n13 -M1 ti-1...- :                                         06   'W    il~A3w 
AN. ~    .1111%      '       5~           u'as ala       .:a11-                      35.1...         .3 1-.0 SSsr  ui -ans -  .,.u  -s ae.. .3.
15284 P111- 3.P2*                                                  0321 1- 4542 *55-lWii              MaZ%ps5.
-I-I S  P -       W4*SS  5-~                                              seaS          ~     1.P*3d-.  -2  M,a-
1- 1in3   J-   .3 CT a- A"3 a.  .-15  15  -           d5. J. - seMj u--1.i
nP~~~s                     iP1~-W   P1 3#iad 15  AM .MPaiiu              It*5a . *45 _.T
p   p   a'       *-  ~~~~ aMas      s u.    ora.as.1aS-                                     - 3-1j.  -n  .45 a. 5:-a.-a   d3.51    l 3.
At -mPos   (51   mP4              1    -1                                                 J 1      .3555    las         14 ..aa.5-*l a2
a.ug.rnsuaw  Iama                                        .123.1 pa- 0an: '11-3s.s t11.: 1 9-. a.
*   a   P     It 3.1u21- a-  %W1583  P- P1saa.-Ip             3- . 3
M MO NEIL" PM Is -a-             P1I  .2184S   3.a k-                                     I-       "_ 1   aS5 -2 tus.a- .       Om5.11 A *     3m   lls
mw P.19  135*1-  1P1.  5.ulI  I- 5183. s-         g   1-S                                           - t.I3s1.W 1          3-~7   P- pa3 P-     
*                          _____                       *sea. KP13n  WJ P1    lliS -J                           -*a  -i- ins         s. '"at '"m 3I -u s. -nl', p.- n-na
!*-MMMO   3-1 3m -Wlsvt         3.2-  j- -5P- u1 u.S 3.151.                          3     P1 p.P1 94 1P  -ai s-          i- -a235    .~    m.-.
1-2  ama s *aSU      31-  -~   292593.4 p.1*5a I 1 1-                                  -P1 *S- 'We'     *IaS       55-      -1'...ia
29t         II Pw   I2.6SS    m1    1  .       S1aas.aa44-.a. i-.I                                                                  .  .Cwp    a.. -.a   -j
12P1 p- "                -M                                                    -J- 13)3*9  .laai*5                                   -
AP  3.1    5a5.1         4a.a"  Winsa 2      _ _fl -         -11tJ                      -.          ,-2 .S2a.    J.     ie '   It-uaiu4i..
an.. a.eu.aaa -   sS* ai    Z1 as -z flu.a.  *2-.                   *a     -  a .aa.   - Crs-s..1   sO4'23u.*'.i 
S-  A -    WIa    lJu- e1ilIuJ                  ef*      hf
"o-ft-               -a      !-"A. h1            Pa                    . un             ft-It -II *a.a-     ..5  ...-. ua.a
-M-p-                                                                                               M~~~~~~~~~~~~-    .uaiaa   .~5.tsu..lu        1
a. a         -As     *- - a      awoa  .aus..   .-aU    .s-131  ',si,-  -                                                   -as ..        ,z.a.ia.
a* Ja1- -I..  S                   .a       3)51  .159  -55.aatas-5                              1ju- *....,a.                  .~          n.sa
135lulw-q   9          Pm..15            u 51a3t                  45                   1 229  a-            5a14     a  aa. A -    W5- ~8   .uI-   .1- ..
AL 311      I   3-.15d83              a    1     1s*-us,3,   1a.  ,a   P                                                                    1-
m"-l m  Am                           --T~~-sSa 13  .135u 2--Pj   1`1                                      . a- 1P   t~*14  -a:Sl-
-marmflf*U.  .~A~  a--i.--..ua uu.aa 35-aaa-                                                       *a.-saia525 %j-O*u-ml-5Itt 1`     P1A..1C
wIn. ~~~  ~              P1 -a            W                                               8*A 22--..a     *J.-a,W..,5Mlr
A-                          oj9 Ia i ..                                                                         s-a. .3...a   I33..~e  -.sL3m    .u,a
do ;  C- -.- .a .-_+ g -i.3 *-    ..uP    J. 
-aa..aat   *flu5 a..a..As.1* -  -       -,..=34.                 I  .   a152..5344*-.-I.,                   lif.t4Iu.2'..
03-    w  J- uSA....- I......a         P-a.C  f.Il e.  -J35..-5a  auaa-.as   lsn  .24                                             ald3a
aug    ,aaaS3 _  .uCaaa2a    i   C             -sa..n  .pr.paaa 1-u.a  ..aiaP  .12s.  aa a.aua   .a"I    "a.n.,.
d-al  LAt   -.a.a                              3aa a .ut.ass                         .58   u-.u    3  aat-lf.                 aa   a   a  4
55e  t       -   I          las3    1            lnsa-a..aa -a.S   ,                    a Ss asnaaAnu  a. a.3'-      shaul.a.am. 9-ala   ..g   i
tnnft."     -ul -  At.M.  in3  -1. M-s1P1      2a.t41It.                        .4a- P  u. Pft14135)  a*i -J- u. li..- g                  .u sin .sfts -
JO    E Sa.id                                                        115 A.3.1"25a9. u1  i  8a.1 1m.i-t          . .sauiua 4S..  Wus .2-a1 
I     " M  Imsu..da.a.,                  aaa  a    .c.  i 8..aal   1*5aa                                         a.i.'3          t.  3 C..3a.7) 2



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
DJIBOUTI: ECONOKIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT
Annual Rate of Growth.
US$ Million      x        (Constant prices)
1982    19831/  1982    1979-82  1981-82 1983
GDP at Market Prices           355.0  368.4    100.0      3.0      2.3   1.2
Gross Domestic Investment       87.3   56.4    24.6    38.0       22.5    OD
Gross Domestic Saving          -35.1  -29.6      9.9        -        -    ..
Gross National Saving            4.3    ..       1.2        -        -     .
Exports of Goods and NFS       121.1  146.7     34.1    -4.6      -9.7     .
Imports of Goods and NFS       243.5  237.7     68.6      8.8      5.1     .
oUTPUT IN 19612/
Value Added
USS mln.       X
Agriculture                                    22.3           6.3
Industry                                       49.1          13.8
Services                                      222.5          62.7
Unallocated                                    61.1          17.2
355.0        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
US$ Million            Z of GDP
1982  L9831/    1978-82   1982  1983
Total Receipts                     132.2   117.6        34.4    37.2  31.9
Current Expenditure                111.9   119.5       22.6    31.5  32.4
Current Surplus                     20.3    -1.9        11.8     5.7  -0.5
Capital Expenditure                 65.3    53.6        17.8    18.4  14.6
Capital Grants                      29.8    27.4        7.6      8.4   7.4
Global Surplus/Deficit             -15.2  -28.1          1.7   _4.3  -7.6
.. Not available
1/ Provisional data provided by IMF; these data are not necessarily
compatible with Bank data for the previous years.
2/ Sectoral output for 1983 not yet available.
January 1985



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES          1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   19831/
(In US$ Mln. outstanding end period)
Money Supply                      83.4   103.0  111.9  119.5  147.0  164.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector    -36.2   -46.7  -66.4  -77.9  -57.8  -60.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector    26.1    41.5   55.7   68.8   95.4  123.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money Supply as Z of GDP          34.9    36.1   34.0   33.6   41.4   44.7
GDP Deflator (1978 - 100)        100.0   114.9  128.1  134.4  132.2  135.6
Annual Percentage Changes in:
GDP Deflator                       -       14.9   11.5    4.9   -1.6    2.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector       -      29.0   42.2   17.3  -25.8    3.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector      -      59.2  34.2   23.4   38.6   28.9
I/  Provisional data provided by IIMF
January 1985



- 23 -
A:hIEX I
Page 6 of 6
DJIBOUTI: SALANCE OF PADIEWrS AND EYIKEENAL ASSISTANCE
BALANCE OF PAYr!4TS (USS million)
1978     1980     1981      1982    19831/
Exports of goods, NFS.              109       143      138       121     147
Imports of goods, NFS              130       214      222      243      233
Resource Gap                        -21       -71      -84     -122      -86
Factor Payments, Net                -18       -17      -15      -28       38
Unrequitted Transfers, Net           46        73       73        68      27
Balacce on Current Account            7       -15      -26      -82      -21
MLT Borrowing, Net                   -1         8       -1        23
Private Investment, Net              -5        10       11       12
Capital Grants                       20        28       24        13
Errors and Oissions                   -        -3        5       -2      .
Variations in Reserves                        -28      -13        36
(- - increase)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Fixed parity between Djibouti Franc and USS
-SS I = DF 177.721
Exports in 1982
USS mln.                  z
Exports of Goods in Transit                     33                     27
Re- exports of Goods                            50                    41
Exports of Services                             38                     32
Total                              121                    100
EXIERLNAL DEBTr December 31. 19822/
U55 Mln
External Public Debt                     IBRD/IDA Lending, September 30, 1984
Outstanding and Disbursed        40.1                       IBRD      IDA
Outstanding &
DEBT SERVICE AS 2 OF EXPORTS. 1982          Disbursed         -      2.14
1. Debt service as x                       Undisbursed        -    18.26
*                of total exports              2.8      Outstanding incl.
Undisbursed       -    20.40
2. Debt service as 2
of locally produced exports3f 9.0
Not available.
I  Provisional data provided by IMF; they are not necessarily compatible
2   with Bank data for the previous years.
2/ Debt data for 1983 are not yet available; DRS for 1983 transactions
3   received from Djibouti Government in December 1984.
/ Since almost all goods exported 'from Djibouti are re-exports, total
foreign exchange revenue earned by the Djibouti economy comes mainly
from exports of services.
January 1985



- 24 -
AN,EX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DJIBOUTI
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1984)1/
US$ millon aioant
Credit                                           Les Canlatio2/
Number     Year  Borxower   Ppose                 DA    Undisbarsed
1232-DJI   1982  Djibouti   Tk. for              3.00       2.03
Planning
& Statistics
1303-DJI   1983  Djibouti   1st Highway          6.40       5.23
1488-DJI   1984  Djibouti   Geothermal lxpl.   6.00         6.00
1518DJI3/ 1984  Djibouti   Urban Development  5.00          5.00
TOTAL                                     20.40       18.26
of which has been repaid                             -
TOTAL now held by IDA1/                   20.40
TOTAL undisbursed                         20.40       18.
1/ Djibouti has received no Bank loan.
7/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
31 lNot yet signed.
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1984)
None
;



- 25 -
ANNEX III:
EDUCATION PROJECr
&Spplementary Project Data Sheet
1.  Timetable of key events
(a)   Identification                           November 1983
(b)   Project preparation                      1983-84
(c)   Appraisal mission                        March 1984
Cd)  Negotiations                              October 1984
(e)   Board Presentation                       January 1984
(f)   Date of effectiveness                    July 1985
II. Speial IDA Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
Condition of Effectiveness: Establlshment of a Special Account with
an initial deposit of about USSO.5
minlion (para. 62).
;
U



I    *                                                                                     aA   0  f
J.        SAUDI ARABIA                                                                                                         ,, WOUMEIIlA
r      _ ,    , /                                                                                             -. " " .
SUDAN 14 1;, V                                              I I 1 0P I A                                                   -                                     (2
C            { I~pUdIEVr I oo                                                                                                              Moulheute
4)\ > 5neALtA                                                                                Sldlhh Mennguelof   .
S,OMALIA
v E TOPA                   -; -, I a PIA
UG.ANC)A    K E N YA A 
N-5                                  t+L(0P    R04)' .,)             4                                                                                               I
74ws ma hA ', pw @o by
kgw dv cXww   of alt
lu.lwiar d~I NIAcXV*AX 4W 
&%pIIa 74. .MW-Ym4ww~
pous oft Fro wbmi "A)*4l .t
&N AdpIwo an ft "N 6ldhA                             ra~~~'to 
~~~                       Maloh                         )Ij,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g



3*00~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~1
]    l A   \    o                                                                                                 u  w^    ,1,    DJ    0t1T   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   1 ,1,1
~~~~~~~~10~~~~~~~~~~./
,<Fi, ~4I.4  (, ~                                                              DJIBOUTI    701l y
FIRST EDUCATION   O
"tXlov .;.;' t  111...      ;P                 R O J E C T
%,   G R A N n)        it Al 4                                                      P                Rural Primary Schools
I|;L Ile                                           i                      Urban Primaty Schools
-National roads, posved
loud  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     /-                   Nalional roads, eKarth
-----  District roads, anirth
Riailways
~~~~~                tD~~~~~~~~~~~~~tiil                                                  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~tAdd C)p'4,   Port                      rot
A     faN out a                                                                                                                    *Semsinal rivers (wadis)i
?)l  ~~~' Oft A Al)  ~~~~~ Eyt&?  -  - -   ~~~~~  .                .      /         ,.**,,  ~~~~~~..                          Salt tInt      DrinhinfltqDrikingwter
Medahlc~                    ---./*                                                                                                                                                               fiti;  fptl
D1 ,,  ,,,, _  bo_ndaries
F  _ .. I,  0  P I A                                                                                                        I 'n   -   iitirnalioriul baiindqriae
j0
Elevolions in milters Isimplified conlours)
|          r                            _~~~~~~~~~~~~Above 1,000
I          F                                     6~~~~~~~~~~~00.1,000
11,00011W ~      it)        IC          in          s0         %0                              00.500
vums o                   lo                lb o                                         wF     400- 600
lb  lb              10                            ~~~~~~~~~200- 400
0 . 200
dIl.JO                                                            __*o ._  *1                                                     400  X






