Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11284
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DJIBOUTI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1543-DJI)
OCTOBER 16, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =        Djibouti Franc (DF)
US$1.00              =        DF 177.7
DF 1000              =        US$5.6
MEASURES
1 meter              =        3.28 feet
1 meter              =        10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (1km)   =         0.62 mile
1 square kilometer  =         0.39 square mile
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AfDF         -     African Development Fund
BEPE        -      Education Projects Execution Office
CRIPEN      -      Education Information and Production Center
FAC         -      Aid and Cooperation Fund
IDA         -      International Development Association
IREDU       -      Education Economics Research Institute
PCR         -      Project Completion Report
TOR         -      Terms of Reference
UNDP        -      United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO      -      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
Fiscal Year                     School Year
January 1 - December 31              October - June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 16, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Djibouti First Education
Proiect (Credit 1543-DJI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Djibouti First Education Project (Credit 1543-DJI)" prepared
by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DJIBOUTI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1543-DJI)
Table of Contents
Pages
Preface                                                                         i
Evaluation Summary                                                            iii
PART I      PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's PERSPECTIVE                               1
A.    Project Identity                                                          1
B.    Socioeconomic Context                                                     1
C.    Project Objectives and Description                                        2
D.    Project Design and Organization                                           3
E.   Project Implementation                                                     3
F.    Project Results                                                           4
G.    Project Sustainability                                                    8
H.    IDA Performance                                                           8
I.    Borrower Performance                                                      9
J.    Project Relationships                                                    10
K.    Consulting Services                                                      10
L.    Project Documentation and Data                                           10
PART II     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                         12
PART III    STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                            33
A.    Related IDA Credits (Table 1)                                            34
B.    Project Timetable (Table 2)                                              34
C.    Credit Disbursements
Table 3:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements           35
Table 4:  Graph of Planned and Actual Disbursement Schedules    35
D.    Project Implementation (V. Annex 1):
Table 5:  Planned and Actual School Delivery Dates                36
Table 6:  Planned and Actual Technical Assistance Dates           36
Table 7:  Planned and Actual Training Fellowship Dates            36
E.    Project Costs and Financing
Table 8:  Project Costs                                           37
Table 9:  Project Financing                                       37
Table 10: Allocation of Credit Proceeds (SDRs)                    37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
F.    Project Results
Table 11:   Direct Benefits. Number and Capacity of Project
Schools                                                38
Table 12:   Studies                                                 38
Table 13:   Assignment and Responsibilities of Djibouti
Counterpart Personnel                                  39
G.    Status of Covenant (Table 14)                                              40
H.    Utilization of IDA Staff Resources
Table 15:  Man-Weeks per Stage of Project                           42
Table 16:  IDA Project Missions                                     42
ANNEX I:    Comparative Schedule of Project Implementation                       43
ANNEX II:   Comparative Table of Estimated and Actual Project Costs              44
ANNEX III:  Comparative Table of Project School Indicators                       45



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DJIBOUTI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1543-DJI)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First
Education Project in Djibouti, for which Credit 1543-DJI in the amount of
SDR 5.1 million was approved on March 21, 1985. The credit was closed on
June 30, 1991, two years behind schedule. The last disbursement was on
December 2, 1991. An undisbursed balance of SDR 122,690, was canceled on the
same date, reducing the total proceeds utilized to SDR 4,977,310.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources
Division of the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR was begun after two missions to Djibouti,
by an architect (January 1992) and an education specialist (February 1992),
and is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, progress reports from the Borrower, documents prepared by the
Education Projects Execution Office (BEPE), correspondence between the
Borrower and IDA, and internal IDA memoranda.



6



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DJIBOUTI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
'Credit 1543-DJI)
Evaluation Summary
Proiect Objectives
1.          In order to respond to demand for schooling and pave the way for
development of the education sector by improving its effectiveness, the
Government requested that IDA finance a project through which access to
education in disadvantaged urban areas and in rural communities could be
expanded, management of the education system as a whole reevaluated and
reviewed, and development of the system organized on a sound basis of
financial planning and cost control. More specifically, in addition to its
proposal for the building or extension of two urban schools and eight rural
schools, the Government requested technical assistance and specialization
training for Djibouti nationals so as to be able to set up an Education
Planning Service within the Ministry of Education.
Proiect Implementation
2.          The Government issued instructions for the creation of an
Education Projects Execution Office (BEPE) as part of the Directorate-General
of Education, designating the Director-General as its director and vesting it
with responsibility for implementation of the project. It was to be supported
by the regular departments of the Directorate itself, a French technical
assistant to supervise pedagogical matters, and an administrator/accountant.
The construction component of the project was made the responsibility of the
technical departments of the Ministry of Public Works. This scheme of
organization proved to be very effective.
3.          With regard to construction of schools, project objectives were
not only achieved but largely exceeded, as 84 classrooms were built and 19
schools either newly built or extended, instead of the 43 classrooms and 10
schools aimed for initially. These additional achievements, following two
amendments to the Credit Agreement (January 30. 1987 and July 11, 1990), were
made possible by: (a) sound management of the project; (b) major savings
resulting from favorable variations in the SDR with respect to the Djibouti
franc, which is tied to the dollar, and in the Djibouti franc with respect to
the currencies used to pay for imported inputs; (c) competitiveness in the
construction sector; and (d) architectural and technical simplifications in
construction of the 41 second-tranche classrooms, which reduced per m2 built
costs appreciably.



- iv -
4.          The buildings put up were of good overall quality and very
functional, while the furniture and equipment provided afforded working
conditions and a degree of comfort well above those found elsewhere in the
region. One matter for regret, however, is that the architectural and
technical solutions opted for originally were not less complex, and that
community participation was not better organized, with a view to reducing
construction and maintenance costs.
5.          The education planning and evaluation component, for reasons
internal to IDA, was financed under Credit Agreement 1232-DJI (Technical
Assistance), the funds in question being administered by UNDP. Despite a
relatively slow start (the planning expert had to be replaced after 12 months
instead of 24; a Djibouti counterpart planning specialist was recruited only
seven months prior to completion of the experts' term of appointment and was
immediately absent abroad for four months' training), this component did
accomplish the goals set for it. An Education Development Plan was formulated
for the 1989-93 period, on the basis of technical and pedagogical studies and
data on education-system functioning and costs. The Education Planning
Service was also organized, and its current staff of three specialists
(planner, evaluator, statistician) have kept the Five-Year Plan updated and
produced a statistical yearbook annually.
6.          Following an amendment of the Credit Agreement on February 9,
1988, certain funds were reallocated to finance preparation of a second
education project (Credit 2080-DJI). This meant that a consultant could be
brought to Djibouti for two weeks to assist with launching of the activities
of the Education Planning Service, and training obtained for four specialists
(a teacher of French as a second language, a schools inspector/supervisor, a
designer/model-maker, and a bookkeeper).
7.          From the qualitative standpoint, the project has had effects
which, although not among its initial specific objectives, are far from
negligible. In addition to the results flowing from establishment of the
Education Planning Service and provision of training fellowships in primary-
school instructional methods, it is evident that the improved conditions
created for primary-school pupils cannot help but have an advantageous
qualitative impact, and that the foundations now exist for extending it. What
still remains to be done is to ensure that other requirements are met: well-
trained teachers, appropriate educational strategies, school textbooks that
meet pupils' real needs, and a library for teachers and pupils at each school.
The second education project has been identified and designed to achieve these
ends.
Prolect Sustainability
8.          With regard to project buildings, their durability depends on the
possibilities of maintaining both premises and equipment. Unfortunately, the
architectural solutions chosen mean that maintenance activities cannot be left
to local communities; neither can the district authorities in rural areas or
the technical service departments of the Ministry of Education in Djibouti
City be relied upon. Although the Ministry is operating efficiently at the
present time, the same is not true of the district authorities, whose



- v -
resources are limited. In the circumstances, users must become disciplined,
especially where sanitary facilities are concerned, since these could
otherwise soon become a source of infectious diseases.
9.          Sustainability of the quality effects of the project can be
counted upon. Apart from the fact that the school premises constructed will
go on being used by more and more pupils, who will benefit from the very
favorable working conditions they afford, development of the education system
will be planned with increasing effectiveness thanks to the Education Planning
Service, particularly as additional assistance from technical and training
specialists is provided for under the second project.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
10.         The quality of the dialogue that existed between the Government
and IDA throughout the project not only enabled both parties to be very
precise in identifying problems likely to delay quantitative and qualitative
development of the education sector, but also paved the way for the second
project now being implemented. The second education project benefitted from
assets acquired during the first, in particular with the soundly organized
BEPE and the Education Planning Service, which possess capabilities lacking at
the time Credit 1543-DJI was launched. However, there are two major lessons
to be learned from this first project, related to school construction and to
the writing and dissemination of textbooks. On the subject of the
architectural and technical solutions chosen for construction of schools and
classrooms, greater care should have been taken to adapt design and
specifications to local environment and to better involve local communities to
construction/maintenance. Although these were partially improved when the 41
classrooms funded from project savings were built, it appears that certain
architectural studies actually led the Ministry of Public Works to make
recommendations - in respect of school building works only - that have never
been taken into consideration. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education
possesses neither the personnel qualified in this area nor the carefully
formulated specifications that would enable it to assess the worth of
recommendations made to it. Steps therefore need to be taken that will lead
to the adoption of solutions valid for all future building programs. On the
subject of textbooks, measures should have been included to supplement actions
planned or underway for the writing and dissemination of new textbooks of the
type begun and pursued in relation to the second project.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DJIBOUTI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's PERSPECTIVE
A.    Prolect Identity
Project name:                         First Education Project
Credit:                               1543-DJI
Country:                              Djibouti
Sector:                               Education
Subsector:                            Primary Education
Amount of the Credit:                 SDR 5.1 million
Board approval:                       June 22, 1985
Anticipated closing date:             June 30, 1989
Actual closing date:                  June 30, 1991
B.    Socioeconomic Context
1.          This First Education Project was prepared, negotiated and signed
at a time when Djibouti's general economic situation was deteriorating after a
comparatively favorable period. GDP had begun to decline in real terms by 2%
a year in 1984, despite an annual 3% increase over the 1978-82 period. The
main reason for this deterioration was a drop in construction and service
activities, which account for the major part of the country's GDP, since the
primary and secondary sectors account for only 20%. Inevitably, this trend
increased the economy's dependence on external aid, which covers over 40% of
government expenditure and represents close to 25% of GDP. In order to
improve the economic situation and achieve more equitable income distribution,
the Parliament decided in 1982 that the country's economic priority should be
to enhance the value of its human resources, increase agricultural and
industrial production, and strengthen transport and communications services to
meet international demand.
2.          The role of education and training in achievement of these
objectives was a crucial one. Obviously, the key problems affecting the
sector had to be dealt with as soon as possible. The first step was to
increase the primary-school enrollment rate by 41% in 1983/84, by quickly
reducing the inadequacy or lack of access to basic education in disadvantaged
urban districts and in villages in the interior. The second step would be to
improve the effectiveness of education, adapting it better to the needs of the
country but maintaining its quality. The final step would be to set up an
education planning and evaluation service able to ensure harmonious
development of the sector as a whole, given prevailing financial constraints
and the need to sustain quality. In 1984, the proportion of the national
budget allocated to education was 12%, a figure the Government proposed to



- 2 -
increase only at the same pace as the rate of growth in the national budget,
roughly 1% per annum. With this restricted budget, and unit costs that were
very high in comparison to those in the region (approximately US$372 per
pupil-year in primary education in 1985), any palliative measures would
clearly have to meet the demands of strict planning and control.
C.    Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.          Given the range of problems to be dealt with and the limited
financial resources available for the purpose, the Government formulated a
number of high-priority requests for presentation to the Donors' Conference
held in Djibouti in November 1983. Following bilateral discussions between
representatives of the Government and various IDA missions, it was agreed that
the project would have a twofold objective: to respond to the increasingly
pressing demand for education, and to lay the foundations for a long-term
management and planning system designed to lead to eventual qualitative and
quantitative improvements. Besides seeking to increase the possibilities of
access to primary education in disadvantaged urban areas and in rural
communities in the interior, the project would also introduce mechanisms for
formulating short-, medium- and long-term development plans, to be based on
continuous evaluation of the prevailing situation and to include formulation
of priorities, estimation of the resources required, assessment of the cost of
these resources, and mobilization of the financing to cover them.
4.          More specifically, the project was to allow for:
(a)   construction and equipping with teaching materials and furniture
of (i) two school complexes, each with 12 classrooms, in
disadvantaged urban areas, plus housing for the principal of each
school, and (ii) eight rural schools, four of them new and four to
be extended, plus 20 housing units for principals and teachers and
facilities for 650 boarders;
(b)   technical assistance with:
(i)      evaluation of results obtained through existing education
programs;
(ii)      planning of the education/training system as a whole;
(iii)      training of Djibouti nationals as specialists in the fields
of education planning and evaluation.
5.          Subsequently, three amendments to the Credit Agreement expanded
the specific objectives of the project as follows:
(a)   January 30. 1987:  Financing for the construction and equipping
with teaching materials and furniture of three additional schools, one urban
and two rural, plus two housing units for teachers.



-3-
(b)   February 9. 1988:  The allocation of Credit proceeds for technical
assistance was altered to include preparation of a future second education
project.
(c)   July 11. 1990:  In order to utilize the undisbursed balance of the
Credit proceeds, six additional rural schools were to be extended, five
teacher housing units constructed in addition to the 22 already provided for,
and accommodation for 50 additional boarders provided.
D.    Prolect Design and Organization
6.          Design of the project began after receipt of a request from the
Government in January 1984 which emphasized the need to go ahead rapidly with
(1) strengthening of education-system organization and management, and
(2) expansion and improvement of primary education. In actual fact, only
financing for expansion of primary education was requested from IDA, as the
qualitative components of the project were to be financed under cooperation
arrangements with France. However, the request noted that improved working
conditions, in the form of appropriately designed and equipped schools, would
inevitably affect the quality of the education and training provided.
7.          Before this final concept of the project was arrived at, a
sustained and productive dialogue had taken place between the Government and
the various IDA missions. By 1979, roughly two years after the country
achieved independence, such enormous needs in the fields of education and
training had been identified that an IDA Credit alone would clearly not be
sufficient to finance a project targeting all of them. Prior to the Donors'
Conference in November 1983 (para. 3), the initial IDA missions, in agreement
with Djibouti officials, had considered a project to strengthen vocational and
technical training as well as to improve the quality of primary education.
But other donors, specifically France's Fonds d'aide et de coop6ration (FAC)
and the African Development Fund (AfDF), had indicated their own interest in
these two arenas; in the circumstances, the Government asked IDA to
concentrate its assistance on achieving a major increase in the number of
places available for pupils in primary education and on instituting sector
development structures and strategies.
8.          During the project preparation period, the funding planned by IDA
was cut from US$6 million to 5 million. At roughly the same time, Saudi
Arabia, which had agreed to provide approximately US$4 million for the
building of primary schools, announced that it was forced to postpone this
financing. Given these difficulties and in order to minimize their impact,
IDA decided to add back approximately US$500,000 to its contribution by
financing the evaluation/planning component through its Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1232-DJI). Accordingly, this component is dealt with in
Schedule 2 to Credit Agreement 1543 under the heading "Technical Assistance,"
but is not mentioned in Schedule 1, which deals with expenditure categories.
E.    Prolect Implementation
9.          As the results achieved demonstrate, the project as a whole was
carried out satisfactorily. Its implementation was entrusted from June 1984



to the Education Projects Execution Office (BEPE), the director and alternate
director of which were the Director-General of Education and the Chief of
Administrative and Financial Services, respectively. Subsequently, in 1986,
BEPE personnel was completed by the addition of a team of education and
architectural specialists (drawn from the Ministry itself or assigned by the
French Cooperation authorities) to the group already appointed. Also added
were an accountant financed by FAC, and a secretary and driver, both paid from
Government counterpart funds. The fact that the Directorate-General of
Education was responsible for major project decisions proved very
advantageous, since it meant they were reached quickly, that construction
works could go ahead more rapidly, and that substantial savings on Credit
proceeds were possible (later reallocated for additional works).
10.         Construction works were the responsibility of the technical
branches of the Ministry of Public Works, which also attended to architectural
and technical studies, preparation of tender documents and award of contracts,
and supervision of operations in the field. These services were not billed to
BEPE, because the use of the Credit was limited in this instance to purchase
vehicles for worksite supervision and a small lot of office equipment.
However, in putting up the first 10 schools the Ministry simply recycled
existing plans, the specifications for which were written to a higher standard
than necessary. Although rectifications were made later when the additional
project facilities were built, they were not carried far enough.
11.         Since the Government had no experience in the selection,
recruitment and administration of specialists, consultants and fellowship
holders, implementation of the technical assistance component was entrusted to
the Programme Operations Department of UNDP, under an execution agency
contract between the Government and UNDP signed on June 11, 1985. IDA
transferred a sum of US$490,000 to UNDP. These arrangements gave rise to no
particular procurement problems or difficulties, but did not meet the expected
cost/benefit (III.3).
F.    Proiect Results
12.         Buildings and equipment:  The initial quantitative goals of the
project were far exceeded, since 84 new classrooms were built instead of the
43 proposed at the appraisal stage. Buildings, whether classrooms or
ancillary facilities (staff housing, boarder accommodation, canteens, sanitary
facilities), are soundly constructed on the whole, while the materials and
fittings used guarantee working conditions and standards of comfort clearly
superior to those found elsewhere in the region. However, a number of
reservations need to be voiced. For one thing, the architectural and
technical solutions initially chosen did not always guarantee that subsequent
maintenance costs would be low: roofs and eaves with too little slope,
classrooms opening directly onto corridors, poor layouts/ground plans, and
types of sanitary facility not suited to local practices. Opportunities to
lower construction costs by writing specifications to more economical
standards were not investigated closely enough: for instance, considerable
savings would have been possible on number and types of windows, ceiling
materials used, superfluous electrical fittings and water-supply points, and
alignment and characteristics of fencing/enclosures. Finally, although



-5-
anticipated in the Appraisal Report (paras. 2.21(c), 4.01 and 6.06), there has
been little or no participation by local communities in the building and
maintenance of their own schools. The design specifications followed (since
the authorities were not willing initially to revise their standard plans)
called for materials and skills not readily available, particularly in rural
areas, and therefore are likely in the short term to mean that even limited
participation by beneficiary communities cannot be expected.
13.         The project allocated funds for the services of a consulting
architect and a specialist in construction engineering (Category 3 in the
Credit Agreement) to undertake civil engineering studies. These resources
were not utilized, the technical branches of the Ministry of Public Works,
despite the FAC technical assistance available to them, being content
initially to rely on existing designs and specifications, although during the
second phase of the project - at IDA's request - they were modified in the
interests of cost reduction and better adaptation to the local environment.
It would be advantageous, as far as future building programs are concerned, if
this effort and the studies accompanying it were carried further.
14.         All school furniture supplied through the project was imported.
Particular care was taken to see that it was suited to children of different
sizes and ages. It is of acceptable quality, although with variations in this
regard from one supplier to another. There were certain instances of over-
equipping also: for instance, the number of fans provided in each classroom;
and installation of electrical fittings and artificial lighting in some
localities where power supply is not available during school hours. In
contrast, the schools are without libraries.
15.         Cost:  Total project cost, including contingencies and taxes, was
estimated at US$7.35 million, broken down as US$3.2 million in local currency
costs and US$4.2 million in foreign exchange costs. By the closing date of the
project, the actual cost figure was approximately US$7.9 million, or 7% more
than anticipated. This difference is attributable first of all to significant
overruns (+349%) in project administration expenses, mainly as a result of the
longer duration of the project (5.5 instead of the anticipated 3.5 years), and
then to the fact that the proceeds of this Credit were used to cover technical
assistance and fellowship expenses initially planned as chargeable to the
second education project (Credit 2080-DJI). The project closing date was twice
postponed (to April 11, 1989 and April 5, 1990) to allow time for the
investment of major undisbursed balances of Credit proceeds accumulated as a
result of favorable coinciding variations in the SDR in relation to the
Djibouti franc (tied to the U.S. dollar) and in the Djibouti franc in relation
to currencies used to pay for imported products (procured mainly in the franc
zone). The proceeds of the Credit covered 82% of project cost.
16.         Unit civil engineering costs fell in the range US$486-680 per m
on new construction by private contractors (average:  US$564 m2), and in the
range US$350-588 per m2on works executed on force account (average: US$473
per mi2). These figures may be compared to the US$600 per m figure anticipated
at the project appraisal stage. These good results were achieved thanks to
favorable exchange rates (para. 15), competition in the construction sector,



- 6 -
and certain simplifications and improvements in building plans and
specifications at the time additional classrooms were built.
17.         Technical assistance and training fellowships:  This component,
financed as indicated above (para. 8) from Credit 1232-DJI proceeds
administered by UNDP, was designed to improve management of the education
system through effective planning, careful evaluation of operations, and cost
control. Two stages were foreseen: initially, assignment of two experts, one
in education planning and the other in education evaluation, plus training of
Djibouti counterpart personnel; subsequently, creation of a permanent unit as
part of the Ministry, to be responsible for system monitoring. A number of
events impeded implementation of this component: the education planner stayed
only one year in Djibouti instead of two, because of poor performance, the
period of assignment of the evaluation specialist being extended to enable him
to attend to both the evaluation and planning functions; recruitment, toward
the end of the project, of a planning consultant for a period of only four
months, and late appointment of a Djibouti counterpart to take over his
functions on departure of the technical assistance team. In all, 46 man-
months of technical assistance and 4 man-months of training were financed
under this component, instead of the 36 man-months and 24 man-months,
respectively, initially planned.
18.         Despite these difficulties, the results achieved through this
component may be considered acceptable: As well as a series of studies on
costs, the Education Ministry budget, and certain educational aspects of
primary-school instruction (V. Table 12, Part III), a draft Five-Year
Education Plan (1989-93) was also developed. In addition, the Education
Planning Service was set up as part of the Directorate-General; it is at
present staffed by three professionals, namely a planner, who heads it, a
statistician, and an evaluator. All have undergone or are scheduled to
undergo specialized training.
19.         Not included in the original project description were 0.5 man-
months of consulting services and 30 man-months of training fellowships,
funded from undisbursed Credit proceeds. This consultant's mandate was to
bring the Planning Service into operation and monitor the performance of its
head officer, who had received part of his training from the same consultant
through the Education Economics Research Institute (IREDU). The fellowships
went to four individuals: two education specialists (one in teaching French
as a second language, the other in teacher training), a designer/model-maker,
and a bookkeeper. Award of these fellowships, which were originally to have
been funded under the second education project, enabled the first project to
be implemented more rapidly.
20.         Quantitative results (V. Table 11 and Annex III. Part III):  In
quantitative terms, the Appraisal Report set the following goal: 2,350 new
pupil places, plus 1,800 additional places to have been created with financing
from the Saudi Fund. Although this contribution was finally not available, it
was partially replaced by financing an extension of the IDA project from Credit
proceeds that had been saved. The total number of new pupil places made
available to the Ministry was 5,226, or 25% more than anticipated under the two
combined IDA and Saudi arrangements. While only 93% of this new capacity is



currently being used, the enrollment ratio appears to have risen from 41Z to
46%, although the reliability of these figures is no more than relative, as the
census of Djibouti's school-age population is very approximate. However,
enrollment rates for girls, which had been 45% in urban areas and 33% in rural
areas, do not appear to have changed appreciably. Finally, each project school
also provides an adult literacy course; the total initial enrollment figure
here is 625 adults, which can be expected to increase.
21.         Qualitative results:  At the time the project was being appraised,
it was one of a number of actions planned to deal not only with qualitative
problems in the education field but also the gap between the kinds of training
provided and the country's real needs in this regard. As funding for this
latter area had already been committed by other donors (para. 7), it seemed
logical for the project to focus mainly on quantitative development of the
primary education subsector. All the same, there is reason to regret that,
for example, no measures were included to supplement actions planned or under
way for the writing and dissemination of new textbooks, since this would have
facilitated a continuing dialogue on qualitative issues, of the type begun and
pursued in relation to the second project. The impact of this first project
on qualitative improvements in the education system in general and the primary
education subsector in particular was, in any event, not negligible.
22.         In the first place, the quality of school and classroom
construction, furniture and equipment funded through the first project has an
evident impact on the value of the education provided. All pupil and teacher
requirements are now met: agreeable premises that are well lit and well
ventilated, suitable furniture, a place and a desk for every child, and a
reader for every pupil. Fittings in the form of cabinets, shelving and the
like mean that textbooks are kept in good condition, as are the few library
books available, although they are often of the wrong level for the pupils who
might otherwise use them. Unfortunately, the plans made with IDA to begin
collections of library books in the project schools came to nothing, as a
result of procedural delays; they would have provided the right kind of
impetus and laid the foundations for larger libraries, particularly as the
French Cooperation authorities had promised financing to further this effort.
23.         In addition, the training fellowships funded for an
inspector/advisor to work with primary school teachers and a specialist in the
teaching of French (para. 19) reinforced project impact in improving primary
education in the qualitative sense - an impact that should come to be fully
felt during implementation of the second education project (Credit 2080-DJI).
24.         Creation of the Education Planning Service within the Ministry has
proved to be the most worthwhile of the project's qualitative results. The
experts and consultants in education planning and evaluation examined the
structures, operation and costs of the education system and proposed
guidelines for its development. These provided the foundations for an
Education Sector Development Plan - formulated partly by a consultant and
partly by his Djibouti counterpart - which the Planning Service updates each
year. The Government regards this document as the master plan for education
system development and as a reference basis not only for national officials
but also for donors.



- 8 -
25.         In conclusion, it may be noted that the education evaluation
specialist, in addition to his other tasks in Djibouti in planning and in
compilation of baseline data for the sector Development Plan, also devised and
tested (in conjunction with educational advisors assigned by the French
Cooperation authorities) a battery of achievement tests for first-, third- and
fifth-graders at eight Djibouti-City schools. One of their most pertinent
findings - that a trainee teacher whose work is well supervised by inspectors
obtains better results than a fully qualified teacher who has undergone
conventional teacher training - pointed up the need to make greater use of
teacher supervision and to train Djibouti nationals in this field, concerns
which have been taken up in the second education project (Credit 2080-DJI).
G.    Proiect Sustainabilitv
26.         As far as project buildings are concerned, their durability is a
question of maintenance of both premises and equipment. In general,
considerable effort has gone into making school surroundings and playgrounds
agreeable and keeping them in good order - thanks to the availability of
water and tools, and the motivation shown by school principals in this regard.
However, shortcomings in school design (para. 12) mean that maintenance
problems cannot be attended to in rural areas, given their derisory budgets
and parents' low incomes. The situation is better in Djibouti-City, where the
Ministry of Education has a mobile team of skilled workers and parents
contribute more often to school cooperatives. Nevertheless, in urban and
rural areas alike, urgent action is needed to clean up sanitary facilities,
which threaten to cause serious epidemics if left in their present state.
27.         The sustainability of the education planning/evaluation component
is both evident and promising: the organization chart of the Directorate-
General of Education now includes the Education Planning Service; the Service
has been assigned a high-quality staff group whose skills can be expected to
increase under the supplementary training arrangements included in the second
project; and plans exist to commission experts and consultants to advise the
Service on necessary groundwork in the areas of school mapping, cost analysis,
statistical data collection, organization and administration, and examination
arrangements. It is to be hoped, however, that this initial impetus is not
undermined by delays in recruiting technical assistance personnel and national
counterpart staff. Finally, the framework set up to generate the data used in
formulating the Education Development Plan is extensively used in updating the
Plan annually, with every reason to expect this will continue in the coming
years.
H.    IDA Performance
28.         The main strengths in IDA performance were:  gradual creation of a
situation of open dialogue which enabled the various pre-preparation missions
to gain a better understanding of the Government's needs in education, and to
change their initial recommendations significantly in light of other donors'
intervention programs. The comparatively high number of supervision missions,
two or three annually, together with the almost continuous presence on the
scene of a project education officer, prolonged and expanded this dialogue to
the extent that a new project was identified as a logical extension of the



- 9 -
first. Mission frequency and continuity also accounted for the rapid
acceptance of various Credit Agreement amendments authorizing additional
works, recruitment of consultants, procurement of equipment not originally
provided for, and training opportunities for Djibouti counterpart personnel.
29.         On the other hand, one important aspect of the building program
merited closer attention from IDA, in the sense that greater pressure should
have been brought to bear on the Government to carry out the architectural
studies provided for and thus arrive at better and less costly building
designs. Recommendations to this effect were made in memoranda from the IDA
architects but were not acted upon until the plans for the additional project
schools were finally redrawn. Along the same lines, although IDA showed great
flexibility when it came to reallocation of undisbursed Credit proceeds, it
unfortunately failed - because of delays in the drawing up of booklists
(pedagogical arguments as to what should be included) and in awarding
contracts - to meet the Government's requests for library books for new
schools, an item not originally included in the project. School libraries
still leave much to be desired in terms of both number of books and their
quality, and an additional shipment (based on a list agreed on by the
Government and IDA) would be a great help. However, this gap could probably
still be filled: just as certain funds were committed under Credit 1543-DJI
to the second project, the same type of arrangement might be used in reverse
when equipment is being procured for the new schools built under 2080-DJI.
I.    Borrower Performance
30.         As noted briefly already, the Government's administration of the
project through BEPE proved effective: continuous contact with IDA and UNDP
headquarters, and successful although difficult supervision of work sites
(sometimes remote and hard to reach) and of deliveries and installation of
equipment; careful keeping of accounting records; regular dispatch of half-
yearly progress reports and annual audit reports; and inclusion in the budget
of local counterpart funding as scheduled. The Covernment also complied
promptly with Credit Agreement conditions. Another point to the credit of the
Borrower was its consistent availability during mission periods and through
exchanges of correspondence, factors that accounted for the rapid advance with
identification and appraisal of the second education project.
31.         There are two areas in which the Borrower could improve, however.
In the first place, a concerted effort should be made to improve school
infrastructure by issuing specifications and instructions for architects that
reformulate objectives and requirements to be met. Obviously, these
objectives should not be limited to educational concerns, but should extend to
cost containment and greater reliance on local resources; similarly,
requirements should include that of limiting maintenance needs, with a view to
transfer of this responsibility to the local level. Secondly, it would be
advisable to recruit national counterparts early enough to enable them to
obtain instruction in theory abroad and practical training locally from
project technical assistance personnel.



- 10 -
J.    Proiect Relationships
32.         Dialogue between the Government and IDA was ongoing, frank and
direct, and carried over as well into preparation, appraisal and launching of
the second project. Relationships with other organizations, both bilateral
and multilateral, were also excellent. With UNDP, complete understanding was
reached on all aspects of the education planning/evaluation component. The
same was true in the case of the technical cooperation provided by France,
which during the course of the project agreed to finance the accountant
position and authorized the technical advisor to the Director-General of
Education to assist in implementing and monitoring the technical assistance
and training component. This collaboration continued where the second project
was concerned - under similar arrangements with France, and under parallel
financing arrangements with UNDP in respect of the education planning
component. Very good contacts were also maintained with the African
Development Fund.
K.    Consulting Services
33.         Construction works carried out by the private sector gave
generally satisfactory results as regards scheduling, cost, and quality of
final product, so much so that contracts for additional works in rural areas
were also awarded to the private sector. Procurement procedures were in
accordance with IDA guidelines.
34.         The project allocated funding for the services of specialists to
carry out architectural studies for the improvement of school buildings
through cost reduction, incorporation of techniques for utilization of village
manpower contributions, and facilitation of maintenance and repairs. However,
specialists of this type were never recruited, although the studies were
eventually conducted by the technical branches of the Ministry of Public Works
in connection with the second phase of the project. Unfortunately, the
Education Ministry has never been able to develop appropriately detailed
specifications, and is without personnel qualified and experienced enough to
assess the feasibility of proposals received and to arrive at their own
recommendations.
L.    Project Documentation and Data
35.         The project was carried out on the basis of the usual documents:
Credit Agreement (March 21, 1985), Staff Appraisal Report (December 3, 1984),
and President's Report (January 1985). These documents had been preceded by an
"Application from the Government of the Republic of Djibouti to the World Bank"
(January 1984), which contained a detailed analysis of the education sector and
proposals for its development. Project documentation also included a detailed
working document prepared by an IDA architect with particulars of built areas,
costs, and equipment, building by building. In addition, a four-page undated
document set out terms of reference for experts and fellowship awardees, in
addition to a detailed cost estimate on the planning/evaluation component.
These materials were utilized during project execution.



- 11 -
36.         Information incorporated in the Project Completion Report was
obtained from the Education Planning Service, BEPE, or IDA archives.
Supervision reports were clear and complete and included voluminous technical
information. As far as future supervision missions are concerned, it would be
preferable to deal with the problems of only one project in each report and
not to combine recommendations affecting various projects under way or
contemplated. In addition, BEPE's regular half-yearly progress reports
throughout the project period provided excellent reference materials.






- 12 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Diibouti
Ministry of Education
Education Projects Execution Office (BEPE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DJIBOUTI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1543-DJI)
I.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND START-UP                                           14
1.    Background                                                           14
2.    Project Identification and Objectives                                14
3.    Project Components:                                                  15
(a)   Urban primary schools                                         15
(b)   Rural primary schools                                         15
(c)   Technical assistance                                          15
4.    Project Organization and Implementation:
Ministry of Education                                                16
II.   PROJECT DESIGN, EXECUTION AND IMPACT                                       16
1.    Project Design and Execution                                         16
2.    Major Results:                                                       16
(a)   Infrastructure                                                16
(b)   Furniture and equipment                                       17
(c)   Training                                                      17
(d)   Institutional development                                     17
(e)   Expansion of primary education                                17
(f)   Study of the education sector                                 18
3.    Project Coordination and Administration                              18
(a)   Responsibilities of coordinator                               18
(b)   Relationships between project coordinator and component
managers                                                      19
(c)   Relationships with different agencies and ministries          19
(d)   Lessons learned                                               19
4.    Main Project Impact on Education System                              19



- 13 -
III.  REVIEW OF BANK AND GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE, AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   20
1.    Evaluation of Bank Performance during Project Execution              20
2.    Action of the Government during Project Execution                    21
3.    Evaluation of Performance of Institutions and Consulting Firms  21
IV.   PROJECT ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION                                  22
1.    IDA Participation in First Education Project (table)                 22
2.    Project Financing (table)                                            23
3.    Project Implementation (table)                                       24
4.    Procurement of Goods and Services (tables)                           25
5.    Recurrent Project Costs (table)                                      29
6.    Foreseeable Project Impact on Education System                       30
7.    Lessons Learned                                                      30
V.    PROSPECTS FOR A NEW PROJECT                                                30
1.    Primary Level                                                        31
2.    Secondary Level                                                      31
3.    Private Education                                                    31



- 14 -
I. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND START-UP
1.    Background
Situated in a hot, arid region, the Republic of Djibouti possesses
extremely limited natural resources. Its chief assets are strategic location,
370 km of coastal fishing grounds, and geothermal resources now in the course
of being evaluated. From the economic viewpoint, a general distinction may be
drawn between:
(a)   Djibouti City (with a population of approximately 200,000 at
project start-up), with its sea/rail terminal, international
airport, administrative services and almost all the country's
commercial activities;
(b)   and the extremely poor districts of the interior, where the
majority of the rural population (estimated at 160,000), nomadic
or semi-nomadic, is spread over four rural districts (Ali-Sabieh,
Dikhil, Obock, and Tadjourah).
2.    Project Identification and Objectives
On accession to independence in 1977, the Republic of Djibouti
immediately set about enhancing the value of its human resources,
indispensable if a service economy was to be created and general living
conditions improved in the interests of social justice. Its first step in
this direction was to promote access to education for all children of primary-
school age, particularly girls, since an educated female population would be
effective in curtailing population growth.
In order to increase the capacity of the country's schools, the
Government began a two-shift system of classes, relying for additional
teaching staff on assistants for whom vocational training was organized
simultaneously.
These measures, however, proved insufficient and short-lived,
since it soon became apparent that the basic school infrastructure would have
to be developed to respond to social pressures for education created by the
rural exodus, stabilize the rural population, and improve distribution of
schooling opportunities throughout the country.
Logically enough, these objectives led to a need for education
planning and for management of the process already instituted to improve the
cost-effectiveness and quality of the education system.
A working group of representatives of the Ministries of Education
and Public Works, assisted by a UNESCO mission (economist, educator,
architect, and mission secretary), formulated a primary education development
project as part of general education development policy, one of the
Government's primary concerns.



- 15 -
This project was presented, among others, to the 1983 Donor's
Conference in Djibouti, where it attracted the attention of the World Bank,
which agreed to finance it through IDA Credits 1543-DJI and 1234-DJI, the
latter focused on technical assistance.
3.    Project Components
The First Education Project was made up of three segments:
(a)   Urban primary schools:  Construction and equipping of two school
complexes in the capital, as part of a plan to increase the number of places
for urban pupils in response to heavy concentration of the population in major
towns, particularly Djibouti City.
These two schools, located in Gabode and Balbala, each consisting
of 12 classrooms and a teacher housing unit, would allow enrollment or
relocation of 1,200 pupils and a very marked reduction in double-shifting.
(b)   Rural primary schools:  Construction or expansion and equipping of
eight rural schools (plus housing for 20 teachers and accommodation for
approximately 650 boarders), as follows:
-     construction and equipping of four new schools, at Bondara,
Kontali, Khor-Angar and Ardo:
extension and equipping of four existing schools, at Dammerjog,
Mouloud, Ali-Add6 and Dorra.
By making it possible to enroll or relocate 840 pupils, this
component would contribute appreciably to reducing rural illiteracy and
curbing the exodus toward larger population centers and urban areas.
All rural schools were to be provided with refectory facilities,
as a means of introducing children to group life and concepts of hygiene, and
as a step in the campaign against malnutrition.
In addition, since school premises were to be designed so that girls
could be taught in separate classes, an increase in their enrollment rates was
expected.
(c)   Technical assistance:  The goal of this component was to make
specialist planning services available to the Ministry of Education, to assist
it in setting priorities and identifying goals and objectives for coordinated
development of the different levels and types of schooling and training that
would be consistent with the country's development needs and prevailing
financial and other constraints.
To this end, provision was made for recruiting specialists to
organize education-system planning and evaluation, and for training
fellowships for the Djibouti counterparts to these specialists.



- 16 -
4.    Proiect Organization and Implementation:  Ministry of Education
An Executive Order dated 7 June, 1984 created within the Ministry
of Education an Education Projects Execution Office (BEPE) consisting of the
Ministry's Director-General of Education and Head of Administrative and
Financial Services, as well as representatives of the Ministries of Finance
and Public Works to provide financial and technical monitoring. Day-to-day
project management was delegated to existing departments of the Directorate-
General of Education.
In 1986, BEPE was strengthened by the addition of a special team
made up of Ministry of Education staff, technical cooperation personnel, and
an architect. A bookkeeper, secretary and driver were also recruited for
project purposes.
In September 1988, project administration and accounting were
assigned to a member of the French technical assistance group.
II. PROJECT DESIGN. EXECUTION AND IMPACT
1.    Proiect Design and Execution
The design of each of the project components proved to be
satisfactory, and their implementation was generally in line with initial cost
estimates.
Substantial savings were achieved thanks to strict management of
Credit proceeds. These, in addition to sums generated by favorable coinciding
exchange-rate movements during the project period, resulted, on completion of
implementation, in an undisbursed balance of approximately SDR 2,300,000, or
45% of the original amount of the Credit.
This remainder made it possible to fund a component identified
initially as part of the project, but which the Saudi Development Fund could
unexpectedly not finance. This involved the construction and equipping of
three school complexes, one in Balbala, part of Djibouti City, and two in main
district towns, namely Dikhil and Tadjourah.
Even after this component was implemented, a further undisbursed
balance equivalent to SDR 600,000 made it possible to extend five existing
rural schools (in Kalfa, Sagallou, Moudo, Guirori, and Waddi) and advance
funds to cover certain urgent preparatory operations for the second education
project.
2.    Malor Results
(a)   Infrastructure
-     Construction of five urban school complexes, each with 12
classrooms plus housing unit, office, storehouse, sanitary block,
maintenance shop and enclosure/fence.



- 17 -
Construction of five rural schools, each with three classrooms
plus three housing units, refectory, dormitory, office, sanitary
block, maintenance shop, and enclosure/fence.
Extension or rehabilitation of nine existing schools through the
building or renovation of nine classrooms, 15 housing units, three
sanitary blocks, one office, one storehouse, two refectories, two
dormitories, and two enclosures/fences.
In all, these works provided a total of 84 new classrooms.
(b)   Furniture and equipment:  The project financed the full furnishing
and equipping of all buildings put up, except for teacher housing units
(equipped and furnished at Government expense).
The project also financed the purchase of 12 vehicles (for use on
job sites and by Government officials), job-site equipment (including six
cement mixers), and office furniture and requirements (including computer
equipment) for BEPE.
(c)   Training:  This component called for organizational and
administrative strengthening of the education system. The training provisions
it included covered 24 man-months of fellowships in project design, appraisal
and execution for two Djibouti counterparts.
Difficulties in recruiting a planning expert who met the TOR
criteria, and also Djibouti counterpart personnel, led to partial and delayed
achievement of goals in this arena. As a result, a suitable candidate for the
evaluation function could not be identified, while recruitment and training of
a planner were completed only after the experts had wound up their missions.
The planning specialist was trained at the Education Economics
Research Institute (IREDU) during the last three months of 1989; this was
followed by bringing an expert from that institute to Djibouti for two weeks,
mainly to assist in setting up and computerizing the new planning service.
(d)   Institutional development:  The main thrust of this component was
to increase Ministry of Education management capability in medium- and long-
term forecasting, project design and execution, and education planning and
programming.
Inclusion in the Ministry's organization chart of the Education
Planning Service achieved this goal at the institutional level. This unit,
incorporating two divisions (one concerned with schooling organization and
private education, and the other with studies and evaluations), was gradually
provided with the staff and materials it needed to carry out these tasks.
(e)   Expansion of primary education:  The building and rehabilitation
works financed through the project resulted in the following increases in
enrollments and staffing:



- 18 -
PUPILS                          TEACHERS
SCHOOLS       Pre-Project    Post-Project    Pre-Project    Post Project
1986-1987       1991-1992        1986-1987        1991-1992
Gabode II                  0             940                 0              21
Balbala II                 0           1,193                 0              24
Balbala III                0           1,131                 0              24
Dikhil 1                   0              869                0              19
Tadjourah II               0              388                0               9
Ardo                       0               97                0               3
Dorra                     91              121                3               5
Bondara                    0               70                0               2
Kontali                    0               65                0               2
Dammerjog                240              270                6               7
Khor-Angar                 0               59                0               2
Mouloud                  211              199                7                6
Ali-Add6                 165              155                6                4
Moudo                    102               29                2                2
Guirori                   16               61                1               3
Waddi                     45               72                2                3
Kalaf                      0              124                0                3
Sagallou                 184             231                 6               6
TOTALS                 1,054           6,074                33             145
To these figures, add the following job positions: 5 school principals, 9
Arabic teachers, and 31 service jobs (nightwatchmen and maintenance workers).
(f)   Study of the education sector:  Through the studies launched by
the evaluation and planning experts in conjunction with Ministry of Education
staff, and their continuation by the new Education Planning Service set up as
part of the Directorate-General of Education, an overall structural and
quantitative concept of the education system, as well as the rudiments of a
mechanism to evaluate its internal productivity, were developed.
In addition to examining scenarios for quantitative development of
the system based on various working hypotheses, these studies also led to
inclusion in the Education Sector Plan of a concern with qualitative
development of the system through better adaptation of curriculums and
teaching methods to Djibouti's particular circumstances.
3.    Project Coordination and Administration
(a)   Responsibilities of coordinator:  The project coordinator was the
Director-General of Education, who oversaw implementation and monitoring of
the project in conjunction with a group of his deputies assigned to manage its
various components.



- 19 -
(b)   Relationships between project coordinator and component managers:
Architectural design studies, preparation of construction contract bidding
documents, and monitoring of job-sites were matters assigned, at the request
of the Government, to the technical branches of the Ministry of Public Works,
whose Director of Housing and Urban Development, in his capacity as Alternate
Director of BEPE, oversaw the technical side of project construction works.
Procurement of equipment, reception of goods supplied, and their
installation were supervised by the Chief, Financial Services Department,
Directorate-General of Education, who in his capacity as assistant to the
Director of BEPE oversaw administrative and financial matters arising out of
the project.
The Technical Advisor to the Director-General of Education, as the
official responsible for strictly educational matters, oversaw implementation
and monitoring of project technical assistance and training components.
Project accounts were kept, invoices paid, and progress reports
issued by BEPE personnel.
On the whole, these operations proceeded without any significant
problems affecting the relationships involved.
(c)   Relationships with different agencies and ministries:  The various
ministries and government agencies associated with the project made valuable
contributions to its sound implementation, despite some administrative delays
and red tape, mainly in the Ministry of Finance, which supervised
administration of Credit proceeds and settlement of suppliers' invoices. On
occasion, proceeds were temporarily blocked and accounting vouchers redeemed
only with difficulty, since the Director of Finance, a member of BEPE, did not
play his part fully.
(d)   Lessons learned:  In order to improve the administration of
contracts whose provisions have already been negotiated precisely and in
detail and been approved beforehand by the Government, simplification of
Ministry of Finance administrative channels would facilitate adherence to
implementation timetables.
4.    Main Project Impact on Education System
Through its first component, the project provided the means by
which a clearer picture of the organization, operation, and cost of the
education system can be obtained. The instruments and procedures recommended
by the project experts and developed by the Djibouti planning counterpart led
to formulation of the draft Education Sector Plan adopted by the Government as
its master plan for education-system development. Updated every year to
reflect both demand for schooling and physical and budgetary constraints, it
provides a framework giving a perspective on projects submitted for decision
to the country's policy authorities, while also incorporating those currently
in the course of execution. Not only an instrument for management for the
status quo but an aid in decision-making as well, the Plan will serve from now
on as a permanent reference point for national education policies.



- 20 -
The second component of the project, under which primary-school
complexes in urban areas and rural regional schools were built and equipped.
allowed a response to increasing demand for primary schooling but not at the
expense of the material conditions of education. More particularly, the
savings achieved on construction and equipping of the classrooms provided for
in the original project meant that undisbursed proceeds from the Credit were
available to finance other facilities rendered necessary by the increase in
the school-age population.
Generally speaking, these buildings, in combination with the move
by the Government to recruit and train teachers and inspection/supervision
personnel, have resulted in a significant improvement in enrollment rates,
despite the rise in population growth.
The project regional schools allowed a satisfactory response to
the problem of nomadic pastoral groups, by providing schooling opportunities
in the vicinity of water-supply points. Because of their proximity to the
most frequented camping sites, they encourage the schooling of girls.
Finally, the school canteens established are not only a major factor in the
campaign against malnutrition but also a means of providing social training
and instruction in the rudiments of hygiene.
III. REVIEW OF BANK AND GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE. AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.    Evaluation of Bank Performance during Project Execution
The Bank facilitated implementation of the project by agreeing
rapidly to the two applications for amendments submitted to it, one for
utilization of undisbursed proceeds and the other for reallocation of funds.
Responses to most applications for non-objection were rapid and the
observations accompanying them instructive.
However, the purchase of books from undisbursed proceeds could
not be organized in the time available owing to Bank prescriptions regarding
choices of textbooks and structure of libraries. BEPE had to revise its
bidding documents in the matter completely, although they had been drawn up on
data provided by educators and teacher-training advisers, both local and
attached to technical assistance groups.
The Bank monitored the project on a regular basis, as may be seen
from the following list of missions:
Missions by IDA Representatives
Nov 26-Dec 5, 1966:      Mr. A. Stam
March 15-20, 1987:       Mr. D. Rouag
Oct 23-30, 1987:         Mr. D. Rouag
Feb 18-March 10, 1988,
to preappraise second and supervise first project:
Messrs. Rouag, de Gaiffier, Bourgeois, Medus, Mezel and
Mrs. Kovatcheva, the last four from UNESCO



- 21 -
May 22-26, 1988:         Mr. Rouag
Oct 16-23, 1988:         Mr. Rouag
May 18-June 4, 1989,
to appraise second and supervise first project:
Messrs. Rouag, de Gaiffier, Papineau, and Berruer (UNESCO)
Nov 20-23, 1989:         Mr. Papineau
Feb 8-10, 1990:          Messrs. Rouag and Colliou
Oct 29-Nov 4, 1990:      Mr. Rouag
May 12-15, 1991:         Mr. Rouag
Missions to Washington by BEPE Personnel
April 9-15, 1988:        Mr. Ali Ismael Hassan, BEPE accountant
(Seminar on disbursement proceedings)
May 7-11, 1990:          Mr. Ibrahim Ahmed Moussa, BEPE Alternate
Director
(Seminar on disbursement proceedings)
2.    Action of the Government during Project Execution
The Government honored its commitments. Ministerial reshufflings
and replacements of the Minister of Education had no adverse impact on the
project, since the Government had adopted the Five-Year Plan proposed by the
Ministry of Education as its master plan.
All decisions concerning BEPE development and reorganization were
taken at the appropriate moments.
The Government's broadly calculated counterpart obligations were
carefully incorporated in the national budget in accordance with the due dates
for their disbursement. The Minister of Finance agreed to authorize
utilization of undisbursed proceeds for the 100% funding of school buildings
not approved [sic] by the Bank.
No problems impaired relations between the Bank and the Government,
as both shared a common interest in ensuring the success of the project.
3.    Evaluation of Performance of Institutions and Consulting Firms
The first education project called for the intervention of two
experts. One of them, with a two-year appointment, was to advise on sector
administration and forward planning. However, the first person recruited
remained with the project only six months, as his work was not on a par with
his terms of reference. Credit proceeds allocated to this position were
therefore used partially to fund a replacement, although no other planning
specialist could be found to accept appointment for more than four months.
The replacement planner proved highly effective, since he was able to complete
the draft Five-Year Education Plan within this period.



- 22 -
The second expert - in project design, appraisal, and execution -
was recruited initially for a term of one year, later extended by a further 12
months. As a result of his study, certain changes were introduced in the
education system, mainly as regards double-shifting. Although the material he
produced constituted an initial approach to evaluation of the education system,
it was essentially descriptive in nature, providing no means of relating
pertinent variables with evolvement of the system. A more scientific type of
study was therefore still required when his appointment came to an end.
From the overall perspective, the results of project technical
assistance arrangements were not commensurate with their cost. The fact that
the services of a planning expert were available for such a short time was
certainly an obstacle to introduction of an effective education planning
system.
UNDP, in its capacity as the agency responsible for financial
execution of the technical assistance component, did everything that could be
expected of it.
The consulting firm commissioned to audit the project accounts
performed this task with all due professionalism.
IV. PROJECT ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION
1.    IDA Participation in First Education Project
The situation of the Credit as of December 2, 1991 was as follows
(in US$):
EXPENDITURE            ALLOCATED          DISBURSED          BALANCE
I   Civil engineering
works, including
salaries of force
account personnel         3,020,000.00      3,295,838.73       -275,838.73
2A  Building materials,
including transport         970,000.00        867,217.23        102,782.77
2B  Other equipment and
supplies                    375,000.00        414,696.00        -39,696.00
III Specialist services         130,000.00        -96,786.95          33,213.05
IV  Administrative
costs, excluding             95,000.00         75,293.58          19,706.42
salaries
V   Special Account             510,000.00         119,588.88        390,411.12
TOTAL               5,100,000.00       4,869,421.37        230,578.63



2.      Project Financing  (in DF)
1985            1986             1987             1988             1989             1990            1991             TOTAL
WORLD BANK                         88,860,500      366,649,330      158,289,949       87,981,138     226,110,917      193,340,394    1,121,232,228
GOVERNMENT         7,742,210       38,897,516       70,345,692       35,138,512        9,220,346      47,152,001       79,531,337      288,027,614
TOTAL            7,742,210      127,758,016     436,995,022      193,428,461       97,201,484      273,262,918      272,871,731    1,409,259,842
l



- 24 -
3.       Proiect Imnlementation (in DF)
(A) EXPENDITURE PROJECTED INITIALLY                                           _
ITEM                               ESTIMATED AT             ACTUAL             BALANCE
APPRAISAL
Construction and equipping of 2 urban schools                416,491,940        283,290,931          133,201,009
(Gabode II, Balbala II)
Construction and equipping of 4 rural schools                543,533,290        306,986,099         236,547,191
(Bondara, Kontali, Khor-Angar, Ardo)
Extension and equipping of 4 existing schools                340,680,490         193,999,992         146,680,498
(Ali-Add6, Dammerjog, Mouloud, Dorra)
Equipping of BEPE and operation over 2 years                  13,212,180          12,104,863           1,107,317
(incLuding audit)
TOTAL AS OF 12/31/88                                       1,313,917,900        796,381,885         517,536,015
(B) USE OF UNDISBURSED BALANCE
Construction and equipping of 3 additional                                      414,723,432
schools (BalbaLa III, Dikhil, Tadjourah)
Extension and equipping of 5 ruraL schools,                                      132,644,407
repair of schools damaged by bad weather
Operation of Projects Office over 3 years and                                     65,510,118
advance on account of second project
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                                                             1,409,259,842



4.       Procurement of Goods And Services
DESCRIPTION                      SUPPLIER            DATE/PERIOD       TOTAL COSTS (DF)        MODE OF PROCUREMENT         OBSERVATIONS
TAXES EXCLUDED
I.      CONSTRUCTION
A)       Construction on Contract
- Balbala II                   La Concorde            Aug. 86                     123,393,650   International Bid
- Gabode                       Eger Verzi             Aug. 86                     122,558,166   InternationaL Bid
- Balbala III                  La Concorde            Jan/Dec 90                  106,342,871   International Bid
- Dikhil                       E.T.P.P                Jan/Dec 90                  126,149,633   International Bid
- Tadjourah                    E.T.P.P                Jan/Dec 90                  130,541,012   International Bid
- Moudo                        ZECCA                  Feb/July 91                  20,590,585   Local Bid
- Guirori                      ZECCA                  Feb/July 91                  22,246,798   Local Bid
- Waddi                        ZECCA                  Feb/July 91                  22,246,798   Local Bid
- Kalaf                        Abdou. Md. Is.         Feb/July 91                  12,954,560   Local Bid
- SagatLou                     Abdou. Md. Is.         Feb/July 91                  17,557,600   Local Bid
- Dammerjog                    M.A. CHILI             May 88                        6,650,465   Quoted Price
(enclosure/fence)              Daher Aber Om          Jan/June 91                   7,000,000   Negotiated Contract         100% State
- Chebelley
B)      Construction on Force
Account
(District Commissioners)
10,500,605
(a)    Purchase of materials:                                                             46,058,998
- Dammeriog                                                                       50,182,250   International Bid
- Mouloud & Ali-Adde           Le Point               Dec 86                      49,273,349
- Bondara & Kontali                                                               24.039.059
- Ardo & Dorra                                                                    180,054,261
- Khor-Angar
898,286,399
CARRIED FORWARD
(b)    Salaries and other costs
of construction personnel:
- Dammeriog                                           May 87/March 88               6,891,902
- Mouloud & Ali-Adde           Local workmen and    April 87/May 88                27,671,714
- Bondara & Kontali            jobbers                July 87/July 88              24,839,660   Recruited Locally           106,038,785
- Ardo & Dorra                                        June 87/Aug 88               29,859,867
- Khor-Angar                                          Aug 87/July 88               16,775,642
- Misc. travel                                        April/May 91                    514,500
(c)    Miscellaneous additional        Miscellaneous          1986-1991                   40,649,269   Consult. with suppliers
materials for force-                                                                             or quote
account construction and
repairs to project schools



DESCRIPTION                      SUPPLIER           DATE/PERIOD        TOTAL COSTS (DF)        MODE OF PROCUREMENT         OBSERVATIONS
TAXES EXCLUDED
(d)    Transport of building           Miscetlaneous          1986-1991                    3,208,600   Quote
materiats
(e)    Fuel and maintenance of         Mobit Oil              1986-1991                   13,743,683   Quote
job-site vehicles
C)       UtiLity services
- power                        EDD                    1987-1990                   18,303,560   Quote
- water                        ONED                   1987-1990                    9,618,813   Quote
- telephone                    OPT                    1987                            152,000   ouote
D)       Access roads. Drotection
- Gabode (access road)         Public works           June 91                      3,171,498   Quote
- Moutoud (embankment)                                1988                            660,000   Quote
- Ardo (gates)                 Garage Intern          1989                            193,536   Quote
CARRIED FORWARD                                                                          1,094,540,643



DESCRIPTION                     SUPPLIER           DATE/PERIOD       TOTAL COSTS (DF)      MODE OF PROCUREMENT          OBSERVATIONS
TAXES EXCLLDED
E)      Driilina operations water       G6nie Rural          Jure 87-88                  82,260,000   Contract (on quote)
search
II.     EQUIPMENT
A)      Purchase of building            Miscellaneous        1987-1988                   16,919,500   Consult. with suppliers
materiats
B)      Furniture for first group       Eqt Rationnel        March 1987                  52,444.274   International bid
of buildings
C)      Furniture for second group    Scolex                 Jurw 1989                   39,203,566   International bid
of buildings
D)      Furniture for  dditional        Techno-Pro           1991                         4,629,290   Consult. with suppliers
classroom
E)      Nisctllaneos additionl          Niscella*neous       1967-1991                    6,160,614   Consult. with Suppliers
setll Iten_ of equipmnt
F)      Fuwniture and compaters,        piseIlIaneous        1967-1991                   14,562.063   Consult. with suppliets
etc., for mPE
6)      Msellsneou  vehicles            [ts U rill           Sept as                      2,517.5S0   Consult. with suppiIer    1001 State
Ets Mnill           Dec aS                       9,920,000   Local bidding               100  state
U)      Job-site vehicles               Fte  dr1ss           Sept eS                      2 40,000   Consult. with supplier    1001 State
Its Idrnic          Sept aS                       2,450,000   Cosult, with supplier    100X State
Dec a5                      19,560,000   Local biddine              100S State
196                         4,990,000   Corwult. with supplier
A CMIE  FOMIND                                                                        1,3S2e,607360 | _



DESCRIPTION                      SUPPLIER           DATE/PERIOD        TOTAL COSTS (DF)        MODE OF PROCUREMENT         OBSERVATIONS
TAXES EXCLUDED
III.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
FELLOWSHIPS
A)      Audit of accounts                Cab. Robleh           1985-1991                     5,200,000   Restricted bidding
B)       Cost of mission to              Acct. BEPE            1988                            881,000   Invit. by Bank
Washington
Acct. BEPE           1989                            718,551   Invit. by Bank
C)      Cost of mission to
Washington                      CIES                  1990                         15,951,122   Restricted bidding
D)       Teacher training (advance
on second project )             Public Works          1990                          1,112,000   Quote
E)       Soil study, CRIPEN
(advance on second              Marc Richard          1990                          1,282,353   Chosen from group of
project)                                                                                          experts
F)      Computerization of
Education Planning Service                                                                                                                                  OD
IV.     MISCELLANEOUS
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
A)       BEPE operations                Miscellaneous          1985-1991                    14,118,521   Quote and order form
B)       Salaries and atlowances        1 driver               Aug 85                       17,388,935   Recruitment of contract   100X State
BEPE personnel                 1 bookkeeper           Dec 90                                     workers
1 secretary
1,409,259,842
TOTAL                                                                         I_I



5.       Recurrent Proiect Costs (DF)
CATEGORY                                ESTIMATED COSTS                                  ACTUAL ADDITIONAL COSTS
NO.     MONTHLY UNIT COST   ANNUAL TOTAL COST           NO.          UNIT COST         TOTAL COST
PERSONNEL
- School principal                      5               120,000            7,200,000               5           120,000         7,200,000
- Urban teachers                       60               116,000           83,520,000              97           116,000       135,024,000
- Rural teachers                       11                86,000           11,352,000              15           90,000         16,200,000
- Teachers of Arabic                    5               116,000            6,960,000               9           150,000        16,200,000
- Custodial mntnce. staff              12                20,000            2,880,000              31            20,000         7,440,000
- Planning speciatist                   1               215,000            2,580,000                1         270,000          3,240,000
- Specialist in project                 1               215,000            2,580,000                1          170,000         2,040,000
design/apprsl/exctn.
SUBTOTAL                                                                  117,072,000                                        187,344,000
EQUIPMENT
- School complexes                      5             1,800,000            9,000,000          84 cl.   122,000/class          10,248,000
- Schools (DF 3,000/pupit)            840                                  2,250,000          43 cl.   122,000/class           5,246,000
MNTNC. & REPAIRS
- School complexes                            1.5% of invest.             13,538,000        60 rooms      90,000/room          5,400,000
- Schools                                           cost                   8.508.000        48 rooms      90,000/room          4,320,000
TOTAL                                                                     150,638,000                                        212,558,000



- 30 -
6.    Foreseeable Proiect ImDact on Education System
The project was extended because of a significant undisbursed
balance on Credit proceeds. Utilization of these funds was programmed and
executed in agreement with the World Bank and in accordance with the spirit of
this whole undertaking. By the time it was completed, therefore, the first
education project had increased primary-school enrollment capacity consider-
ably, matching demand growth in the areas where the new facilities were
provided.
Identification, preparation and start-up of a second education
project then grew out of the first project, as marked population growth in
such areas as Balbala and Ali-Sabieh meant that existing school facilities
that could no longer meet resulting demand under the customary conditions.
The benefits of the first project were thus not only preserved but
extended further by the existence of the second.
7.    Lessons Learned
From the economic and financial standpoints, the design of any
similar project should take account of the recurrent charges it will give rise
to, especially where physical/material operation of the education system is
concerned. Care should be taken to incorporate such costs fully into the
national budget on completion of the project, since this is a necessary
condition for successful continuation of the actions initiated through it.
V. PROSPECTS FOR A NEW PROJECT
The technical assistance component of the first education project
resulted in formulation of a master plan for development of Djibouti's
education system focused on some of the needs arising from pressure to bring
education supply up to demand level. As a logical further step, prompted by
the results of a UNESCO/World Bank appraisal mission, the Government of
Djibouti applied for funding for a second education project, thus ensuring
continuity at a moment when the needs of an education system hardly out of its
infancy were urgent.
This second education project, estimated to cost US$7.5 million
and currently at an advanced stage of execution, was designed as a vehicle for
pressing ahead with actions already instituted under the first project, in
particular:
creation of additional capacity in the primary-school subsector so
that enrollment rates among children in the 6-12 age group can be
improved;
introduction of a series of measures to increase the internal
effectiveness of the education system through research, production
of educational materials, strengthening of primary-level supervision
structures, and improved education planning and administration.



- 31 -
In addition, the second project includes a component focused on
strengthening coordination between the education system and labor market
needs, thereby broadening the field of action of the first.
However, despite an improvement in enrollment rates as a result of
the material achievements of the first and second projects and the rational
utilization of existing infrastructure (double shifting, a longer school day),
unmet demand for education is still heavy at both primary and secondary
levels. Although this can be attributed in part to a sharply increased
population growth rate, there is still insufficient primary-level capacity and
secondary-level facilities are unable to accommodate a great many children who
complete primary school.
Primary level: At the commencement of the 1991-92 school year,
the number of enrollments at this level rose to 30,157. However, the
admission rate, a barometer of the literacy of the population, was 46%,
placing the Republic of Djibouti among those countries with such low schooling
rates that they need to double them before the end of the century (according
to the Ministry of Education and UNESCO). In the circumstances, the next
Education Plan (1994-99) should aim for an admission rate of 60Z.
SecondarX level: Capacity at this level is very limited in
relation to the marked growth in primary-level enrollments. One of the goals
of the next Education Plan should be to increase the primary-to-secondary
progression rate, which is now 24%. Secondary-school enrollments rose to
7,319 at the beginning of the 1991-92 school year, including 5,688 in the
junior secondary cycle. It is clear, given the rate of development in primary
education, that accommodation capacity at the secondary level, particularly in
the junior cycle, must be expanded.
Private education: In view of the demand for education today and
budgetary limitations that are increasingly severe, the Government must act
over the next few years to promote offers of education from private
enterprises. Reorganization of the private education subsector, with all its
present anomalies (questions of legal status, language, etc.), should be one
of the objectives of the next Five-Year Plan.
At the same time, that Plan should emphasize the need to improve
the capacity of the Djibouti authorities to manage the country's education
system. A policy designed to foster ongoing training should lead to the
creation of a pool of Djibouti professionals qualified to manage, administer
and evaluate all aspects of the education system.
From this perspective, completion of the first education project
provides the foundation for identification of future system needs that must be
met if actions already instituted in the primary-education subsector are to be
continued successfully and carried over into the entire secondary subsector.
A third education project would contribute largely to ongoing improvement of
the country's education system, by raising the basic-education enrollment rate
and increasing both internal and external system productivity.






- 33 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related IDA Credit                                                         34
B.    Project Timetable                                                          34
C.    Credit Disbursements                                                       35
D.    Project Implementation                                                     36
E.    Project Costs and Financing                                                37
F.    Project Results                                                           38
G.    Status of Covenant                                                         40
H.    Use of IDA Staff Resources                                                 42
ANNEX I:    Comparative Schedule of Project Implementation                       43
ANNEX II:   Comparative Table of Estimated and Actual Project Costs              44
ANNEX III:  Comparative Table of Project School Indicators                       45



- 34 -
A. Related IDA Credit
Table 1: IDA Credit to the Education Sector
Credit Title                Purposes             Status and Observations
Manpower and            1. To improve vocational   (a) Components 2 and 4
Education              coordination with labor-   take up and amplify First
Development Project    market structure.            Education Project (Credit
(Credit 2080-DJI)                                   1543) objectives.
2. To increase access to
primary education.          (b) Component 3 now under
way, progressing
3. To improve relevance    satisfactorily.  Three
and quality of primary      fellowships financed from
education and junior        proceeds of Credit 1543.
secondary education.
(c) Preparation of
4. To improve admin.        bidding documents and
capabilities of Ministry   contracts for Component 2
of Education.               are nearing completion.
(d) Component 4. with
UNDP parallel financing.
being implemented by
UNESCO. Experts now
_  being recruited.
B. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Table 2: Planned and Actual Dates of Project Timetable
Item                         Planned Date                 Actual Date
Sector Memorandum            August 1983                  August 31, 1983
Identification               November 1984                Oct 30-Nov 6, 1983
Preparation (UNESCO)                                      Jan 15-Feb 25, 1984
Government Application                                    February 26, 1984
Appraisal                    July 1983                    Feb 29-March 22, 1984
Credit Negotiations          October 1984                 Nov 12-16, 1984
Board Approval               December 1984                January 22, 1985
Credit Signature             February 1985                March 21, 1985
Credit Effectiveness         April 1985                   July 16. 1985
Credit Closing               June 30, 1989                June 30, 1991
Final Disbursement           December 30, 1989            December 2, 1991



- 35 -
C. CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS 000, SDRs 000)
IDA Fiscal Year        1985      1986        1987        1988       1989       1990       1991       1992
Appraisal Estimate
(USS 000)                   900   2,100        3,700      4,700       5,000
Appraisal Estimate
(SDR 000)                   918   2,142        3,774      4,794       5,100
Actual (SDR 000)                     489.8    1,456.4   2,475         3,024.2 3,271.2    4,661.4   4,977.3
Actual as X of
Estimate                              23.3        39.4       52.7        60.5    65.4          93.2       99.5
Tgble 4: Grach of Planned and Actual Disbursent Schedulea
* Appraisal Estimte    0  Actusl Schedble
6000                 -
5000
SDR 000
4000 -
3000 -                                / -       _
2000 -
1000
0~
0         1985         1986         1987         1988         1989        1990         1991         1992
IDA Fiscal Years



- 36 -
D.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Table 5: Planned and Actual School Delivery Dates
School DeLivery                                     Works Comoletion Date
Plamned                          Actuau
Urban Schools
Djibouti/Gabode                             March 31, 1987                  September 1987
Djibouti/BaLbala East                       March 31, 1987                   June 1987
Djibouti/Balbala West                                     -                  January 1991
RuraL SchooLs
Danumerjog, Ali Adde,
Bondara, Ardo                               June 30, 1986                   Septenbher 1968
KontaLi, HouLoud,
Dorra, Khor-Angar                           June 30, 1987                    September 1988
Dikhit                                                    -                  February 191
Tadjourahl                                                                  February 1991
Guirori, KaLaf, Moudo
Ripta, Sagal Lou, Wadi                                                      August 1991
1./      SchooLs built under January 30, 1987 amendrnent to Credit Agreement.
Schools introduced under July 11, 1990 amendment to Credit Agreement.
Table 6: Planned and Actual Technical Assistance Dates
Specialist     Financing         Planned under First Proiect                 Actual under First Prolect
in           under
Duration        From           To          Duration         From           To
Evaluation       Cr. 1232    12 months        1/1/85       12/31/85    30 months        12/27/85     6/30/88
Planning                      24              1/1/85       12/31/85    12               2/2/86       1/31/87
Planning                                        -              -        4               11/29/87     3/30/U8
IREDU/Info.      Cr. 1543                -              -               0.5             2/12/90      2/25/90
TOTAL                         36 months                                 46.5 months
TabLe 7: PLanned and Actual Training Fellowship Dates
Fellowships    Financing          Planned under First Proiect                Actual under First Prolect
in           under
Duration        From           To          Duration         From           To
PLanning         Cr. 1232    12 months       10/1/85        9/30/86     2.5 months      10/3/8       12/16/88
Evaluation                    12             10/1/85        9/30/86           -              -
Model-making     Cr. 2080          -             -             -        9               10/1/90      6/30/91
Accounting           i                    -                    -        3               10/1/0       12/31/90
Methodology                                      -             -        8               10/1/90      5/31/91
Teacher
Supervision                               -                    -        10  "           10/1/90      7/30/91
TOTAL                         24 months                                 32.5 months



- 37 -
E. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Table 8: ProJect Costs
Cost in DF 000                 Cost in US$000
Catesorv                 Estimated        Actual        Estimated         Actual           Diff.
1. PRIMARY SCHOOLS
1. Urban schools
initial program1                   416,492        280,069           2,344            1,576          -67.2%
supplementary program2                            122,544                              689
Subtotal 1                           416,492         402,613           2,344           2,265          +96.6%
2. Regional schools
initial program3                   884,214        524,178           4,975            2,949          -59.3%
supplementary program4                            391,817                            2,205
SubtotaL 2                           884,214         915,995           4,975           5,154           23.6%
TotaNotla  A1,313,918                              1,318,608           7,319           7,419           +1.3%
II. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION5                13,212         83,652              74             471        +633%
TOTAL COST                         1,313,918       1,402,260           7,393           7,890           +6.7%
1/    New buildings in Djibouti-City (Gabode, Balbala East).
I/    New building in Djibouti-City (Balbala West).
3/    New buildings (4 schools); extension and renovation (4 schools).
_J    New buildings (DikhiL, Tadjourah); extension and renovation (5 schools) and miscellaneous repairs.
V/    Operations over 5 years (instead of 3 years) and preparation of Second Education Project.
(V. Annex II).
Table 9: Project Financina (in US$000, excluding taxes)
Source of Funds            Aporaisal Estimate                       Actual                  Difference
IDA                          5,000,000         (75.6%)         6,464,639            (82%)             +29%
Government                   1,700,000         (24.4%)          1,425,637           (18%)             -16%
Total                        6,700,000          (100%)         7,890,276           (100%)             +18X
Table 10: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(in SOR)
Revised          Revised          Actual
original        (Feb. 9.         (Apr. 18.      Disbursements
Categorv               Allocation         1988)            1988)           (Dec. 31.       % Financed
1991)
1. Civil works'                    2,000,000        3,020,000         3,020,000    3,403,721.36          85
2. Supplies:
(a) Building materials2         1,680,000          970,000           900,000       867,217.23      100E/85L
(b) Other supplies                300,000          450,000           450,000       414,696.00      100E/85L
3. Specialists                        100,000          130,000          130,000        96,786.95      100E/85L
4. Project administration
costs                              10,000            20,000           90,000        75,293.58         80
5. Special Account                   510,000           510,000          510,000       119,588.88
6. Unallocated                       500,000                 0                0              0.00
Total                           5,000,000        5,000,000         5,000,000    4,977,304.00
Undisbursed                                                                        122,696.00
1/       Including staff transport and compensation of personnel recruited specialty for the project.
J/       Including transport.
Excluding salaries.
E        Foreign exchange expenses.
L        Local currency expenses.



- 38 -
F. PROJECT RESULTS
Table 11: Direct Benefits: Number and Capacity of Prolect Schools
Estiwat d etAt Closing Date
ADDralsal,
Urban primary schools:
Schools buiLt                                                                  2                          34
New classrooms built                                                          24                          36
No. of new places1                                                         1,200                       1,800
Increase in enrollment capacity2                                          1,800                       2,700
Regional primary schools:
Schools built                                                                                            16
New classrooms built                                                          19
Replacement of existing classrooms                                             4                           8
No. of new places'                                                           950                      2,400
Increase in enrollment capacity3                                           1,000                      2,526
Total increase in enrollment capacity                                           2,800                       5,226
+86X
Enrollments in project schools                                            (1986-1987)            At Closing Date
Total                                                                           1,054                       6,127
including girls                                                                                 2,269 (37%)
Theoretical enrollment capacity                                                                             6,609
1/       50 places per classroom.
2/       Assumed 50% of classrooms used for double shifting.
3/       Approximately 5% of classrooms assumed used for double shifting in rural areas and 50% for schools
at Dikhil and Tadjourah.
4/      Inclusion of Balbala West school, as per January 30, 1987 amendment to Credit Agreement.
5/       Inclusion of schools at Dikhil and Tadjourah, as per January 1987 amendment to Credit Agreement, and
of schools at Guirori, Kalaf, Moudo, Ripta, Sagallou and Wadi, as per July 11, 1990 amendment to
Credit Agreement.
(V. Annex III)
Table 12: Project Studies
Date         No.      Subject of Study and/or Report           Responsible                Observations
1986              1       InternaL productivity of primary        Belda                Naterial and data given in
education                                                    Reports Nos. 1, 2 and 3
Jan. 1987         2      Costs and financing of education         o                    were used as basis for
Jan. 1987         3      Outlook for development of                                    Studies 4 & 5.
education system
May 1987          4       EvaLuation of primary education         Vichard              This study incorporates 11
system:  outlook                                             sub-studies1
Feb. 1988         5      Strategy outline and calculations    Vichard/Radi             These various documents
for preparation of Education                                 have been sent to Africa
Development Plan                                             files
Feb. 1988         6      Draft of 89-93 Five-Year                 Radi
Education Plan
March 1988        7      Education budget and analysis of         Radi
costs and financing
1/       Subjects of these 11 sub-studies included:  1975-1986 pupil flows; the fifth-sixth grade transition;
repeaters in fifth grade; part-time classes; double shifting; primary-school instructional methods;
teachers (training, career prospects); tests to assess pupils' academic level in first, third and
fifth grades.



- 39 -
F. PROJECT RESULTS (continued)
Table 13:  Assiunment and ResoonsibiLities of Diibouti Counterparts Trained
IpeJlIoist                Current asslgrwents and resoonsibitities
tral
Ptannwr                   Appointed Head of Planning Service.  Updated Five-Year Education DeveLopment PLan
for the 1990-1994 period. Supervises production of statistical yearbook.
Designer/                 Appointed to Production Department, CRIPEN (Centre de recherche. d'information et
wel-maker                 de oroduction de l education nationale).  CRIPEN sees to the production of school
textbooks in French.
Specialist In             Appointed to CRIPEN where, as one of a team of French technical assistants, he is
French                    engaged on adapting the CLAD method (chosen by the authorities for the teaching of
French) to the realities of life in Djibouti.
Education                 Appointed to the Primary Education Department as an Inspector.  As such,
InTp ctor"                responsible for supervising teachers and their on-the-job guidance and supervision.
supervl sor
Bookkeeper                Appointed to BEPE.  ResponsibLe for project accountIng, but particularly for the
Second Education Project. CurrentLy assists BEPE chief accountant.



- 40 -
G. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Table 14: Compliance with Credit,Agreement Conditions
Section         Covenant and/or ObLigation                        Status of ComuLiance
2.02(b)         To open a "Special Account" in USS.               Confirmation of opening of the Special
Deposits and withdrawaLs to be in                Account sent to IDA by Letter from Minister
accordance with Schedule 4 to the Credit         of Finance dated July 7, 1985.  Special
Agreement.                                       account opened in Djibouti francs.
2.03            Procurement of goods and civil works to be    As bids on initial contracts were not
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to   opened in public, the Goverment was
the Credit Agreement.                            reminded of this obligation by telex dated
September 25, 1989. SubsequentLy, all
procurement proceedings complied with this
requirement.
3.01(a)         The Government to decLare its commitment to   This obligation was met and complied with
the objectives of the project, to take alL    throughout the course of the project.
necessary administrative, financiaL and
educationaL measures for its
implementation, and to provide the funds,
facilities and other resources required for
that purpose.
3.01(b)         To ensure that all project rural schools          All project rural schools were provided
were provided with a timely and adequate         with the necessary furniture, equipment and
supply of goods and services and to ensure    teaching staff, and all boarding
adequate conditions of board and lodging in   accommodations were made available and
boarding accommodations.                         operated normally.
3.01(c)         To place aLl specialists employed under the   The specialists recruited for project
direct authority of the Minister of              purposes worked under the direct authority
Education.                                       of the Director-General of Education, who
was also responsible for the nwnag_emnt of
the project.
3.01(d)(i)      To ensure that the master plan for the            The specialist recruited to prepare this
development of the education sector and the   Plan was not capable of meeting his
school mapping exercise were prepared by         responsibiLities, but was abLe to prep re
the project speciaLists and submitted to         only a series of studies by the deadline
IDA for its comments by December 31, 1986.    date given.  It was only in late 1987, by
3.01(d)(ii)     To act promptLy to implement the                  virtue of the funding made available for
recomewndations emanating from the above         preparation of the second education
documents.                                       project, that a draft Five-Year Education
Plan was prepared by the Government with
assistance from a consultant.
This Five-Year Plan, amended after
observations on it were received from IDA,
was adopted as a policy instrument by the
Government in February 198 and served as
the basis for preparation of the second
education project.
However, in view of both the shortcomings
in technical assistance and the
unreliability of data on the school-age
population, the school mapping exercise
could not go ahead.
3.02            To empLoy properly quaLified consultants          Complied with.  Only one specialist, who
and speciaLists seLected in accordance with   proved not to be sufficiently well
the relevant IDA Guidelines.                     qualified, had his contract canceled after
six months.
3.03            To insure inported goods and equipment and    Complied with.
utilize them exclusively for project
purposes.



- 41 -
3.04            To furnish IDA with:
(a)             the pLans, specifications and other               Complied with throughout the project.
documentation associated with project
construction works and procurement
contracts;
(b)             regular project progress reports;                 Complied with, generally on a haLf-yearly
basis.
(c)             a project completion report.                      Complied with; report dispatched on January
13, 1992.
3.05            To acquire all necessary land.                    Complied with.
4.01            To maintain or cause to be maintained             Project accounting was up to date at all
project accounting records, retain all such   times, and successive missions noted and
records until one year after the project         verified that such records were correctly
closing date, and enable IDA's                   kept.
representative to examine such records.
(c)             To have the project accounts audited              Audit reports were sent to IDA annually,
annually.                                        and usually within reasonable periods.  The
last audit report was submitted to IDA on
January 18, 1992.
4.02            To maintain adequately all facilities and         Complied with partially.  The resources
installations constructed or included under   made available for this purpose, although
the project.                                     appreciable, were insufficient to cover
needs.



- 42 -
H. UTILIZATION OF IDA STAFF RESOWJRCES
Table 15: Men-weeks per Staae of Proiect
Phases of the       82       83       84       85       86      87       88        89       90       91      Total       X
Project                                                                                  _
1. Preparation        .3      2.6    28.1                                                                      31.0       24.8
2. Appraisal                          22.3      6.2                                                             28.5      22.7
3. Negotiations   _         _ _                 3.1                     _        =                               3.1       2.5
4. Supervision        =        =       =         4.0     4.4    9.5       26.0      4.9      8.3      5.5       62.6      50
Total               .3      2.6    50.4       13.3     4.4    9.5       26.0      4.9      8.3      5.5      125.2    100
% TotaL            0.3X       2X      40X    10.6X    3.5X   7.6X         21X       4X    6.6X    4.4X
Table 16:  IDA Project Missions
Type of mission    Date of mission         No. of     No. of participants;   Type of report   Performance mentioned in
man-weeks       specializations          produced                 report
of mission   _           I
No.      Speciat.                        F     H       D      G
Supervision        May 18-28, 1985             2.2         1       Arch.       Fult SPN rep.       1      1      1       1
Superv. 2          March 16-25, 1986           2.0         1       Arch.       FuLt SPN rep.       1      2      1       1
Superv. 3          Oct. 5-8. 1986                .8        1       Educ.       Full SPN rep.       1      1      1       1
Superv. 4          Nov. 26-Dec. 5,             2.0         1       Arch.       Full SPN rep.       1      1      1       1
_____ _____ ____ 1986                                           _  _ _  _
Superv. 5         March 15-19, 1987            1.0         1       Educ.       BTO1             |
Superv. 6         Oct. 23-30, 1987             1.6         1       Educ.       BTO+SPNi            1      2   |   1      1
Superv. 7          Feb. 15-29, 1988            6.0         2       Educ./      BTO|             r 
Econ.      __ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Superv. 8         May 22-26, 1988              1.0         1       Educ.       BTO'             |
Superv. 9          Oct. 16-22, 1988            1.4         1       Educ.       BTO+SPN| 1                 1      1       1
Superv. 10        May 18-21, 1989               .8         1       Arch.       BTo2             1 -        I   -
Superv. 11        Nov. 20-23, 1989              .8         1       Arch.       3                |
Superv. 12         Feb. 8-11, 1990             1.6         2       DC/Educ.    Full SPN        |  1      2       1      1
Superv. 13        Oct. 29-Nov 1990             1.8         1       Educ.       FutALP              1      2      1      1
Superv. 14         May 12-15, 1991               .8        1       Educ.       BTOI             |    |        |
TOTAL                                         23.8        16                                       8     12      8       8
1J      Project 1543-DJI supervision mission combined with second education project identification,
preparation and appraisal missions.
2/      BTO accompanied by June 16, 1989 appraisal report on second education project.
3/      Architect's report incorporated in supervision report of March 12, 1990.
LEGEND
SPN: Supervision
Full SPN Report: Full supervision report (Form 590 included)
BTO: Back-to-office report
Educ.: Educator
Econ.: Economist
DC.: Division Chief



- 43 -
Conetattve SchedWte of Prolct IinLe.tatn                             ANNEX I
19i5                 1fI7                  1399                  IM i te
CIVrL ilOINZEINS
Phase I
Urban SdDeeb @
N albesa last.         jp                                  as
a     --000SOTimo
W~~~~ -esees ettY --.S                                     ~--
N O de                                                 x
itural Schnools                           ao_
Building Materials
* DimerjoS                                            s
I Ali-Add&              ItZa
r~ ~~~              --  r            _es_
NB ada s                                                       s
N Ard  Bnkoula as
N Kntai                  aSOS
I Mouloud                                 __   ____ ._
I Dorra                  P                            _      ____  __.
N sor-Angar              p. s___
Phase 2
Balbala West           a
MD"  shil _ s
N TadJourab                                                                                 Z _
Phase 3
E Guiroria
E Kaiaf 
f    S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
EtMoudo-
ERiptaa-
EWaddi                  f 
IM IaLOU
Furniture & Aqu     t      p                  e  _                     _ 
Phase 1 
Phase 2                                            *
Phase 3                 a 
Tecbhneal Assistnce .
Expert services
PLaming
Evaluation
Fellowsbips
Plannin                                                    xe
Zvelu-tfon
Project Aniust:stioo                                                   1 U   _
* Surveying and studies
* Prop. of bidding documents
T Procuremnt
x Construction, manufacture, delivery
Guarentee period
P Preparations
R Execution
New
E Extension



Com         TA. of EBsl.d and Acumd Prole Cos                                                                                        ANNE 
tDfP ")
CIVIL EGINEERNG                          FURNMIRE                          EOUIIPS T                    SPECAlJiST SERVICES            ADMINISTIATION COSTS                       TarAL COST
(DP 00O)
EIL           AaLua        DWL        Em.                     Di09      Es.         Adad      D0E         EN.        Adum       090       EmL         Ac&%W      Di9E         Hag            AatuI        D09
(S)                               (S)                               (S)                             (M) (0)                                                                    (0)
SCHOOL
Fbm I
URBAN PIRJARY              37,1212         255.3l       -34      21.7425      2.2S17        2        2M 5         4.0       74S       7-W.64      as                  a            as                     4K4vU           2147          -33
GABODE                      193.3          120843.              1MAW           11.26                 142J        1U2                   307J                                                               3412460          14LW24       -32
BALBALA EASr                 154           1S26.S                  *7          I12"                 1428        L2U13                 3.17J                                                              3032460         1786&4       .33
RURAL PlMARY                 1608          49,4U2       4        315,367.3    23.04        .30      2X42L1       Z7212        4       15.27L7  "0                                  to                     512119          52417j        41
DAMMXX                      54173.1    L     13S                  16M2           37          L     7              3SLS2                 44.                                                                J4An2           33S9         .41
ALI-ADE                     95.I1           SW31                  432           .70L7                2547         3012                  ,4                                                                10444W7          3.71&7       47
MOUWUC                      434641          SL,3.                XI7.         5.344                  SU5         40LS                 123                                                                 770A            57746L7      -22
DONDARA                    1MA7             71172.3               3.39         2.S7L7                4541         3012                 1308                                                               1U7"             7426         -a
KONTAIJ                       A7            7417n3                S3.3         27L7                  4541         32                   23L0                                                               137266           7t326        -42
ARDO                        12261           7t134                 53S          17SL7                 4541         3032                 227                                                                1)1733.6          I37         -30  .1-
DORRA                      14,11.7          542                   422 M3X7L7                         4541         32                   L7612                                                              1403.2           57.3417      4
11400 ANA                  I     V7         7.344                 5.390*,     X23L7                  4541         3032                 x.                                                                 137.2"            4416        4.
V1                 1.2177I21l      75L.,22       .30      57.41U       47.1I        1      2V17           m2        7n       223                                          as                    1 78L            S023           M
DUNL                    ,=                                                                                                                                                                                                 HIL7 M4
TrADJOUWAH                                 132.67                              11.783 W.3
MALMA T UU!                                  I47L7 7.431.3
_#_   3                         0.0        31.m2                      10       731                     0.        352                      0.      0.                  0.           0.                          0           411*36.7
ftmUw t                                     74U                                    "ala
E A                                         214                                  4,L7                              7SJ                                                                                                      7A013
KAWA                     7                    "                                  4,16.7m147
WuDO                                        21.                                  WL7                              7in                                                                                                      2n.i
piA                                          %no                                 75. 77N                                                                                                                                    3ZU
WADU                                        328                                    L7.                                                                                                                                      21NA10
MOALL41U                                    17.1516                              d7                                7S                                                                                                        1n
_ao         * m  U              0.              3                      0         .142                  Sol        45.                      0        s                                                                      l4 0  0  0175
Tow d9msm  I  3 I           12.71l        %Zv,i=          0       57410        0 1          S1   X     17        06         1         2A3         G o          0      10           U                     1I.6                             I
*
F0OUCT                          a.s              .ll                                                &3          2           3U         317J3    794          1457 A              401          1271*2                        SARA        33m
AD_MMIRA11ON
lUIAL cofr                L.17.7L        5l33U       4        1 7,412P         8 1          $I     1t76A        7 374613     316       1391.6   7.594        -71     3.37        4101         1U         L3192            1.4alzu         7



Commiheg Tabe  of Pwrld Sduod kub&                                                                                                                    ANNEX 31
NO4 sd O      ro iFCJ         Q   wp     Nd  woo. d                               Na ed_L Npu        o                     in adwo    wiy         cba_ins    q         hbura.                    ECo_mTb (N -199      2)                   % scbod
PhNe_d        AAtu        New        R1ss           NM          Rebab          Phmmd             Actul           Plumd            Aas               (91 92)    U      993-192         Bor          Gitl         To1         % 6G
A            B           C           D             1 E          F              G                 H                I               3                                   K             L            m             N            0              P
G -c.O    H -Ee.                      3V              3V                                                                                        mm
I ULun Schook                2             3            24        a                36        0                 1.200             mm              3.M0            2.0                   36      x      7.0         La0           13           326           0%             121%
N GABODE                      I            1            12                         12                            600              600           s         a         0                   12             Ua           552          386           94          41%            I1^
N BALALA U                    I            I            12                         12                            600              600             go              900                   12             9            612          511         L1i3"         43%            U3%
N BALLA LM                                 I             0                         12                              0              600                0             o0                   12             900          62           499         L3u           44%            126%
2 Rwd S*cook                  a            36           19         4               4          8                  950            2z40             LUo             2.536                  74           3.909         L992         8n   2,8e                  36%             73%
E DIj g                       I            I             3                          3                            ISO              1N              13W             1                     6             3138         172           00           27e         36%             85%
eAr-AdM                       I      I                   3                          3                            ISO               IS0             158             ISO                   6             318          338            17          035         1U%             49%
N  Bomd                       I             I            3                          3                            10               150             1n              158                   3             158           63             7           76         30%             44%
N Ardo lm*.omk                I             1            3                          3                            1e                15              18              158                   3             i8            64            33           97         34%             61%
N    1oaSi                    1            1             3                          3                            150               ISO              W              158                   3             1             55                         65         15%             41%       4 
E  mima                       I            I             0         2                0         6                    a                 0               0               8                   6             318          139            60          I*          30%             63%       3n
E DOM                         I            I             1         2                1         2                   so                50              S3              53                   4             212           at            32          123         26%             57%        I
N KborUr                      I            1             3                          3                            Iso               150              W              1                     3             In            52             7           5          12%             37%
N DA                                       I             0                         12                              *               a)                o            632                   12             62           519           358          00          40%             138%
N Ta4osb                                   I             a                         12                              0               600               a            62                    12             632          247           141          30          36%             63%
E OuGrd                                    I             0                           1                             0                50               0              53                   2             100           43            1s           61         36%              58%
EKaW                                       I             0                           1                             0                50               0              S3                   3             159           9             28     U     24         23%              78%
E Mmdo                                     I             0                          I                              0                50               a              53                   1              53            28            1           29          3%              55%
E RJpa U                                   I             0                           1                             0                so               0              53                   2             106           33            20           53         38%              S%
ES.pou2/                                    1            a      I1                                                 0                 0               0               0                   6             318          192            39          231         17%              73%
E Ws"                                      I             0                          I                              0                50               0              53                   2             106           62            10           72          14% S%
Toul                         10            19            43        4               84         8                 2150             4,200           2.00            5,226                 110            6,9         3.88         2U29         6*,m          37%              93%
N - Na
e- Extwia
1 Storcb e buam keel.g  up      woo     ued as K
2J TNo bog uisu bll
31 Capuy Lka- --.wjot  double saMIm  (50% o            n shoos. sppr=  5% o0 dasl schooll
Sou9C  Mhbo, BEre, SsjclC*3 Ywtoo.



- 46 -
May 2. 1992
H.E. Omar Chirdon Abass
Minister of National Education
Ministry of National Education
Djibouti City
Republic of Djibouti
Sublect:    First Education Project (Credit 1543-DJI)
Proiect Completion Report
Dear Mr. Minister:
I have the honor to forward you herewith Parts I and III of the
above Project Completion Report, both prepared by the Association. As you
know, Part II, a copy of which is also included, was prepared by the
Directorate-General of National Education and forwarded to the Association on
January 13, 1992, in accordance with the General Conditions and Special
Conditions of the Credit Agreement.
Part I. prepared by the Association, consists of a brief
description of the project execution process and an examination of key
problems. It focuses on: (i) any significant gaps between the initial
objectives and the results of the project; (ii) the performance of both the
World Bank and the Borrower during the course of the project, with emphasis on
crucial steps taken (or not taken) by either of them and on lessons to be
drawn; and (iii) the initial direct impact of the project in relation to the
objectives targeted and its indirect impact on sector policy and on the
institutions of the Borrower.
Part III, also prepared by the Association, follows a standard
format and provides a summary of numerical data covering all aspects of the
project.
We should be grateful if you would kindly let us have any comments
you may wish to make on Parts I and III of the Report, prior to May 25, 1992
at the latest, so that we may finalize the document by June 15, 1992 at the
latest.
Yours truly,
/Is Alain Colliou
Chief
Population and Human Resources Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Attachments: (1)



