OFFIC IAL          CREDIT NUMBER 1543-0 DJI
DOCUMNTSJ
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                      cA    ,1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1543-0 DJI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      k    0LAC J, al,\      , 1985, between
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI (hereinafter called the Borrower or
Djibouti) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Special
Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b)
hereof.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to five million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 5,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-2-
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in the currency of the United States
of America a Special Account at the Borrower's Treasury, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03, Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1995, and ending October 15,


﻿-3-
2034 each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 15, 2004 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and educational practices
and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall take all appropriate steps to ensure
that the schools included in Part B of the Project shall be pro-
vided with a timely and adequate supply of goods and services (in
particular the supply of food) to ensure adequate living condi-
tions for staff and students in rural areas.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that the specialists to be
employed under Part C of the Project shall be placed under the
dir,ct authority of t'ie minister responsible for education in the
capacity of advisors.
(d)  (i) The Borrower shall ensure that the recommendations
emanating from the master plan for the development
of the education and training sector and from the
country-wide school mapping exercise (both to be
carried out by the specialists to be employed
under Part C of the Project) shall be prepared and
submitted to the Association for its review and
comments by December 31, 1986.
(ii) Promptly   upon   receipt   of   the  Association's
comments, the Borrower shall take all appropriate
steps to implement such recommendations with due
diligence, taking into account the Association's
comments.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall, as and when needed, employ,


﻿-4-
or cause to be employed, specialists whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish, or
cause to be furnished, to the Association at regular intervals
all such information (including semi-annual reports to be pre-
pared according to a format acceptable to the Association and
using performance indicators acceptable to the Association, such
reports to be submitted to the Association on each June 30 and
December 31 after June 30, 1985) as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the issues arising during
its implementation and the ways and means of addressing such
issues, the cost of the Project, and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Associa-
tion, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records (including separate accounts) adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and


﻿-6-
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in  respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall adequately maintain, or
cause to be maintained adequately, the installations and facili-
ties constructed, improved, equipped or otherwise assisted under
the Project in accordance with appropriate administrative, tech-
nical, financial and educational practices, and provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant  to   paragraph  (h)   thereof, namely,   that  D&cision
Pr6sidentielle No. 84-0886 dated June 7, 1984 of the Borrower
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified


﻿pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Special Account has been opened, as
provided hereunder.
Section 6.02. The date                 )         , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
(20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Nationa Economy
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
National Economy
Djibouti
Republic of Djibouti
Telex:
5871 DJ


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories. of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Works (including          2,000,000         85%
the transportation
of personnel and the
remuneration of the
personnel especially
employed for the
Project)
(2) Goods                                       100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a) Construction         1,680,000         85% of local ex-
materials (in-                        penditures
cluding tr:.ns-
portation
thereof)
(b) Other goods            300,000
(3) Specialists                 100,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local ex-
penditures
(4) Costs of Project             10,000         80%
administration
(excluding salaries)
(5)  Special Account            510,000         Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to Sec-
tion 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Unallocated                 500,000
TOTAL               5,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such Category as
required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 250,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through
(4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after July 1, 1984.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that


﻿- 11 -
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opitiion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no,expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of -the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) expanding and improving primary education in underprivileged
areas, (ii) improving the management of the. education system
through' educational planning, and (iii) monitoring and assessing
the ongoing cost -efficiency and quality improvement process of
that system. To that end, the Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Urban Primary Schools
Construction and equipping of two new double-stream schools
(with twelve classrooms each and about 50 student places per
classroom) to be located in the Balbala and Gabode settlements of
Djibouti City; it being specified that staff housing will be
provided for the headmasters who would ensure, inter alia, the
security of the schools.
Part B:   Rural Primary Schools
Construction, or extension, of facilities for eight rural
schools (including staff housing units for 20 teachers and
students' accommodations for about 650 students) as follows: (i)
cont-rurtion and equipping of four new schools at Bondara,
Kontali, Khor Angar and Ardo Bankouale, and (ii) extension and
equipping of four existing scl ols at Dammerjog, Ali Adde,
Mouloud and Dorra.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
Provision of specialists' services to organize educational
planning and evaluation and of fellowships to upgrade the skills
of the specialists' national counterparts.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 13 -
SC: ULE 3
: Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except' as ptovided in Part D -hereof, goods and Vworks shall
b  r6iuredMunder editt-acdtd awarded in accordance. vllth' procedures
coniiistdatt Nith-thd!e :det ,forth in Sections I, and .7ll of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
2.   Contracts for goods and works will be grouped, to the extent
possible, to permit bulk procurement and to foster competitive
bidding.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with. the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Djibouti may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the  pro-
cedures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower, may
grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors 'in accord-
ance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles whose esti-
mated individual cost is less than $20,000 equivalent, and con-
tracts for the construction materials required for the works
which may be carried out under force account as provided below,
may be awarded on the basis of local procedures acceptable' to the
Association;   it  being   understood  that   the  contracts   for
furniture, equipment and vehicles so awarded shall not exceed
$70,000 equivalent in the aggregate.


﻿- 14 -
2.   Works under Part B of the Project may be carried out under
force account.
E.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 and $100,000, or
more, respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be fur-
nished to the Association prior to the making of the first pay-
ment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines together with the
other information specified therein, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
pare.g. :n 4 of Schedule 4 (the Sp.cial Account Schedule) to this
Agren t i:.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table'in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (4) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
the currency of the United States of America equivalent to the
amount allocated to Category (5) which is to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   (a) For purposes of withdrawal of the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on the basis of a request or
requests by the Borrower and evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdraw
on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and deposit in
the Special Account such amount or amounts of the Authorized
Allocation as the Borrower shall have requested, up to the total
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) For purposes of withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit to
replenish the Special Account, the Association shall, on the
basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Association at
such intervals as the Association shall specify, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Except as the
Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit shall be


﻿- 16 -
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the
respective Categories (1) through (4), and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association in respect of each payment made by the Borrower
out of the Special Account such documents and other evidence as
the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total un-
withdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)
through (4) for the Project, minus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Author.:: :d Allocation, wLichever 6'-all be sooner. Withdrawal from
the CrEiit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (4) for the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, be made only after and to the extent the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
have been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, and,


﻿- 17 -
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


