CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 800 CR
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE
DE ELECTRICIDAD
DATED FEBRUARY 24, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 800 CR
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE
DE ELECTRICIDAD
DATED FEBRUARY 24, 1972


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 24, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof and
to the amendment of Section 6.02(i) thereof to read as follows: "Any event
specified in paragraph (e) or (f) of Section 7.01 shall have occurred." (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Mortgage" means the Original Mortgage, as defined in Section 6.01
of this Agreement, and shall include any Supplemental Mortgage constituted
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
(b)   "Colones" and the sign "c" means colones in the currency of the
Guarantor.
(c)   "Prior Loan Agreements" means the Loan Agreement (Rio Macho
Hydroelectric Project) dated February 3, 1961, the Loan Agreement (Power and
Telecommunication Project) dated July 10, 1963, the Loan Agreement (Second
Telecommunications Project) dated July 10, 1969, and the Loan Agreement (Third
Power Project) dated July 10, 1969, all between the Bank and the Borrower, as
said agreements may be amended from time to time.


﻿4
(d)   "Prior Guarantee Agreements" means the guarantee agreements relating
to the Prior Loan Agreements between the Guarantor and the Bank, as such
agreements may be amended from time to time.
(e)   "Power Assets"   means all electric power generating facilities,
substations, transmission lines, distribution facilities, and related facilities and assets
owned by the Borrower.
(f)   "Electric Power Functions" means the management and operation by
the Borrower of the Power Assets.
(g)   "Power Section" means the organizational divisions or subdivisions of
the Borrower performing the Electric Power Functions.
(h)   "CNFL" means Compania Nacional de Fuerza y Luz Sociedad
Andnima, a sociedad andnima created and existing under the laws of the Guarantor,
of which the Borrower acquired the majority of the shares (92.3%) as authorized
by Ley No. 4197 dated September 20, 1968 of the Guarantor.
(i)   "Decree Law No. 449" means Decreto Ley No. 449 of the Guarantor
establishing the Borrower, dated April 8, 1949, and shall include any amendments
thereof in effect at the date of this Loan Agreement.
(j)   "Concession Agreement" means Contrato Electrico, Ley No. 2,
establishing the rights and duties of CNFL, dated April 8, 1941, as modified by
Ley No. 4197, dated September 20, 1968, of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million five hundred thousand dollars ($6,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed under the Loan Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of


﻿5
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank
(other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods and services
(other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, as
revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of seven and
one-quarter per cent (7-1/4%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. If and as the Bank shall from time to time request, the Borrower
shall execute and deliver Bonds representing the principal amount of the Loan
as provided in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Gerente General of the Borrower and such other person
or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part I and Parts 11 (1) and
(2) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound


﻿6
engineering, public utility, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) make with       the Guarantor arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank providing for the transfer of the proceeds of the Loan
under Category V of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement from the
Borrower to the Guarantor; and (ii) provide, or cause to be provided, and make
available to the Guarantor, promptly as needed, such other funds as may be required
for the carrying out of Part 11 (3) of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of the
engineering studies under Part II (1) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in a review of its organization and
operations under Part II (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ before
September 1, 1972 management consultants acceptable to the Bank and the
Borrower upon terms and conditions to be agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower and shall discuss, promptly upon their preparation, the consultants'
recommendations with the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the B.rrower to replace or repair
such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively, for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof


﻿7
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction and operation of the facilities included in
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its plants, equipment
and property, and from time to time make all necessary renewals and repairs
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering standards.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be required
for the efficient carrying on of its business and undertaking, including the Project,
unless the Borrower shall first pay or redeem, or make adequate provisions
satisfactory to the Bank for payment or redemption of, all of the Loan and the
Bonds which shall then be outstanding and unpaid, provided, however, that the
Borrower may sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property which shall have
become obsolete, worn out or unnecessary for use in its operations.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall (a) maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the


﻿8
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and of the Power Section with
respect to the Power Assets; (b) maintain separate administrative, accounting and
engineering records for the Power Section; and (c) prepare separate financial
statements (balance sheet, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) of the Borrower and the Power Section in accordance with generally
accepted accounting practices consistently applied.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and the financial
statements referred to in Section 5.01(c) hereof for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt cxcept as otherwise
disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (A) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any of its assets as security
for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loar and the Bonds, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect; and (B)
if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower, other than under (A)
above, as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant to the Bank an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of
this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)   The Borrower shall not incur for the Power Section any long-term
debt unless the net revenues of the Power Section for the fiscal year next preceding
such incurrence, or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever shall have been the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum


﻿9
debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all long-term
indebtedness incurred for the Power Section (including the debt to be incurred).
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term  "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including any debt represented by
bonds;
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred (1) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date the loan contract or
agreement providing for such debt is entered into, and
(2) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee is entered into;
(iii)       the term  "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources adjusted to take account of power tariffs in effect
at the time of calculation even though they were not in
effect during the twelve consecutive months to which such
revenues  related, less   operating  and  administrative
expenses, including provision for taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other charges
on debt;
(iv)        the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount    of   amortization   (including  sinking  fund
contributions, if any), interest and other charges on debt;
and
(v)         whenever it shall be necessary to value in Colones debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such other
currency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt
or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate
of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the
Bank.
(b)   The requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section shall apply
mutatis mutandis to the incurrence by CNFL of any long-term debt and the
Borrower shall cause CNFL to comply with the provisions of this paragraph (b)
as if they were binding on CNFL.


﻿10
(c)   The Borrower shall not sell any bonds which are subject to agreements
committing the Borrower to repurchase such bonds before their maturity date,
if at the time or as a result thereof, the aggregate principal amount of bonds subject
to such repurchase agreements then outstanding shall exceed an amount equal to
thirty per cent (30%) of the aggregate principal amount of all bonds of the Borrower
then outstanding.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall from time to time take all steps necessary or desirable to obtain such
adjustments in its power tariffs as will provide sufficient revenues for the Power
Section to produce an annual rate of return of not less than 9%.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect
of each fiscal year by relating net income for that year
to the average of the net value of fixed assets in operation
at the beginning and at the end of that year;
(ii)        the term  "net income" means all power revenues, except
dividend and interest income from CNFL and from other
long-term investments, less all operating expenses;
(iii)       the term   "operating expenses" includes: direct costs of
operation,   administration,  overhead    and   adequate
maintenance expenses; straight-line depreciation based on
the useful life of assets; taxes (if any); but does not include
interest and other charges on debt; and
(iv)        the term  "net value of fixed assets in operation" means
the gross value of fixed assets in operation less the
accumulated depreciation, all determined in accordance
with methods of valuation and revaluation acceptable to
the Bank and the Borrower.
(c)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary or desirable to
ensure that the present power tariffs be not reduced until the completion of the
Project.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall from time to time take or cause to be
taken all steps necessary or desirable to obtain such adjustments in CNFL's power


﻿tariffs as will provide sufficient revenues for CNFL, in accordance with the
provisions of Article 16 of the Concession Agreement.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not and shall cause CNFL not to: (i) reduce its capital and reserves, (ii) declare
or pay any dividends, or make any other distribution on its capital, or (iii) make
any investment not directly related to power or telecommunication services.
ARTICLE VI
Mortgage
Section 6.01. (a) As soon as practicable after the date of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall take such action and execute and deliver to the Bank, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, such instrument or instruments (hereinafter
called the Original Mortgage) as shall be necessary to constitute under the laws
of the Guarantor, in favor of the Bank and of the holders from time to time
of the Loan and the Bonds, a hipoteca y prenda industrial, both de primer grado,
on so much of the property described in paragraph (1) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement as the Borrower shall have had an ownership interest in at the date
of the execution of the Original Mortgage.
0               (b)  The Borrower shall after the creation of the Original Mortgage from
time to time within sixty days after receipt of a request from the Bank to that
effect, take such action and execute and deliver to the Bank, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, such supplemental instrument or instruments (each such
supplemental instrument being hereinafter called the Supplemental Mortgage) as
shall be necessary to constitute under the laws of the Guarantor, in favor of the
Bank and of the holders from time to time of the Loan and the Bonds, a hipoteca
y prenda industrial, both de primer grado, on so much of the property described
in paragraph (2) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as shall be specified in such
request, provided, however, that if the Borrower shall so desire and the Bank shall
so agree, the Borrower shall instead within sixty days after receipt of a request
from the Bank to that effect, take such action and execute and deliver to the
Bank, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, such supplemental instrument
or instruments as shall be necessary to modify a hipoteca y prenda industrial,
constituted pursuant to Article VI of any of the Prior Loan Agreements, to the
effect that such hipoteca y prenda industrial shall secure the Loan, in favor of
the Bank and of the holders from time to time of the Loan and the Bonds, in
addition to the loan made by the Bank to the Borrower under such Prior Loan
Agreement.


﻿12
(c)   The hipotecas y prendas industriales de primer grado provided for in
paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) of this Section shall equally and ratably secure
payment of the principal of, interest, premium, if any, on prepayment and
redemption, and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds.
Section 6.02 (a) The Borrower shall duly record, register and file and
re-record, re-register and re-file the Original Mortgage and each Supplemental
Mortgage in every jurisdiction for which the Bank may from time to time request
any such recording, registration or filing or where such recording, registration or
filing may be necessary or desirable in order to render or maintain the Mortgage
a valid and enforceable first lien.
(b)   Promptly after execution and delivery of each Mortgage the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank: (i) evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such Mortgage
has been duly recorded, registered and filed in accordance with the laws of the
Guarantor in all such jurisdictions as may be required under the laws of the
Guarantor to make it a valid and enforceable first lien in favor of the Bank and
of the holders from time to time of the Loan and the Bonds; and (ii) an opinion
or opinions satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the Bank, that such
Mortgage has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower, that it has been duly recorded, registered and filed in
such jurisdictions as may be required under the laws of the Guarantor to make
it a valid and enforceable first lien, that it constitutes a valid first lien under the
laws of the Guarantor enforceable in accordance with its terms, and that at the
dates of the Mortgage and of the recording, registration and filing thereof the
Borrower had valid title to the property described therein free of all liens and
encumbrances other than the liens of the Mortgage.
(c)   The Borrower shall take all such other action and execute and deliver
all such other documents as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request
or as may from time to time be required in order to render or maintain the Mortgage
a valid and enforceable first lien.
Section 6.03. The Borrower agrees to the assignment by the Bank, at any
time, of the Mortgage to a trustee or trustees, or a similar fiduciary or fiduciaries,
which may be the Bank, for the equal and ratable benefit of all holders of the
Loan and the Bonds. The Borrower shall take all such action and execute and
deliver all such documents as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request
or as may from time to time be required in order to render or maintain such
assignment of the Mortgage valid and enforceable.
Section 6.04. In the event the Bank shall appoint a trustee or trustees or
a fiduciary or fiduciaries, as in Section 6.03 of this Loan Agreement provided,


﻿13
the Borrower shall pay all costs and expenses incidental to such appointment or
appointments or arising out of the exercise by such trustee or trustees or fiduciary
or fiduciaries of his or their functions.
ARTICLE VII
Consultation; Information and Inspection
Section 7.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and
the Borrower shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and other
matters relating to the purpose of the Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan.
Section 7.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform each other
.         of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
Section 7.03. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the
Borrower and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VIII
Taxes
Section 8.01. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration of the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds, or the payment of principal,
interest or other charges thereunder; provided, however, that the provisions of this
Section shall not apply to taxation of payments under any Bond to a holder thereof
other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned tw an individual or
corporate resident of the Guarantor.


﻿14
Section 8.02. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed under the laws of the country or countries in whose currency the Loan
and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such coun' -;
or countries on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement or the Bonds.
Section 8.03. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be paid all taxes, if any,
imposed on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration
of any instrument made pursuant to Section 5.03 of this Agreement and the
Mortgage.
ARTICLE IX
Remedies of the Bank; Amendments
Section 9.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 9.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor
declare the principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be
due and payable immediately together with the interest and other charges thereon
and upon any such declaration such principal, interest and charges shall become
due and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Loan Agreement
or in the Bonds notwithstanding.
Section 9.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any covenant or agreement
on the part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under any of the Prior Loan
Agreements, any of the Prior Guarantee Agreements, the loan agreement (Third
Telecommunications Project) between the Bank and the Borrower, the guarantee
agreement relating thereto between the Guarantor and the Bank, both of even
date herewith, or the Bonds provided for therein.
(b)   The security constituted by the Mortgage or by the mortgages provided
for in any Prior Loan Agreement shall become enforceable.
(c)  Any amendment, abrogation or waiver of any provision of Decree Law
No. 449 or the Concession Agreement shall occur without the Bank having, in
advance thereof, notified the Guarantor and the Borrower of its concurrence
therewith.


﻿15
Section 9.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  The event specified in Section 9.02(a) of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor.
(b)   any event specified in Section 9.02(b) or (c) of this Agreement shall
occur.
Section 9.04. The provisions of Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of this Agreement
supersede the provisions of Sections 5.10 and 5.11 of the Loan Agreement (Third
Power Project) dated July 10, 1969 between the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE X
Termination
Section 10.01. The date May 25, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE XI
Addresses
Section 11.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.


﻿16
For the Borrower:
Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad
Apartado 10032
San Jos6, Costa Rica
Cable address:
ICE
San Jos6
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
By /s/ Rafael Alberto Zufliga
Authorized Representative


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of the Loan to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures sQ to be financed:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    San Antonio Gas               3,900,000
Turbines
(a)  imported                                     100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  locally procured                             95% of total
expenditures
II.   Limon Diesel Units             450,000
(a)  imported                                     100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  locally procured                             95% of total
expenditures
III.  Transmission System            800,000
(a)  imported                                     100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  locally procured                             95% of total
expenditures
IV.   Consultancy services           630,000           100% of foreign
for Parts 11 (1)                                  expenditures
and (2)


﻿18
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               o of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
V.   Consultancy services             200,000            100% of foreign
for Part 11 (3) of                                 expenditures
the Project
VI.   Unallocated                     520,000
TOTAL         6,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency of any
country other than the Guarantor;
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Guarantor, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of expenditures under Categories I, II and
III in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories I, II and IV on account of
expenditures incurred after June 1, 1971, in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $600,000;
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by


﻿19
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Loan will be
withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes;
(d)   any contract or order for equipment or materials for the Project in
an amount less than $5,000 equivalent.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Loan then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Bank by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Loan;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Bank, at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Loan, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Bank, in
respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)  if the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's 1971-1972 expansion program to
meet forecast demand for electric power. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part I.     (1)   Installation of two gas turbine units of about 15MW each in
an extension of the existing San Antonio power station near San Jos6.
(2)   Installation of diesel units with a total capacity of about 3MW
at the port of Limon.
(3)   Construction and reinforcement of various transmission lines and
substations.
Part II.    (1)   Engineering studies for the preparation of the Borrower's
long-range expansion program; the design of a future thermal power
plant and the San Josd distribution systems; geological studies for
Tapanti and Angostura hydroelectric projects; and advice on the design
and construction of the San Josd gas turbine units.
(2)   Management studies of the Borrower's overall organization and
operations.
(3)   Studies of the organization, economy and regulation of the
Guarantor's overall power sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1975.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for goods and services estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed
and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons -for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments
before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such additions or
deletions from the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. If the award is
intended to be made to a supplier who has submitted a Central American Bid
as defined in paragraph 3 below, the bid analysis shall state the rate of duties
which would be applicable to a non-exempt purchaser for the importation of the
goods and services to be supplied. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first


﻿22
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of any
such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for goods and services, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.    For the purpose of evaluating bids, bid prices shall be determined and
compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the member countries of the Central
American Common Market for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial
extent (as reasonably determined by the Bank) in such territories; any other bid
shall be deemed to be a "Non-Central American Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Central American Bid shall be the sum of the
following amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such goods to
site designated in the specifications;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American Bid with any
Central American Bid, the bid price under a Non-Central American Bid shall be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii)        half the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods
into the territories of the Guarantor which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)      freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such goods from
their port of entry to the site designated in the specifications.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
August 1, 1976                                          115,000
February 1, 1977                                        120,000
August 1, 1977                                          125,000
February 1, 1978                                        130,000
August 1, 1978                                          135,000
February 1, 1979                                        140,000
August 1, 1979                                          145,000
February 1, 1980                                        150,000
August 1, 1980                                          155,000
Febuary 1, 1981                                         160,000
August 1, 1981                                          165,000
February 1, 1982                                        175,000
August 1, 1982                                          180,000
February 1, 1983                                        185,000
August 1, 1983                                          190,000
February 1, 1984                                        200,000
August 1, 1984                                          205,000
February 1, 1985                                        215,000
August 1, 1985                                          220,000
February 1, 1986                                        230,000
August 1, 1986                                          240,000
February 1, 1987                                        245,000
August 1, 1987                                          255,000
February 1, 1988                                        265,000
August 1, 1988                                          275,000
February 1, 1989                                        285,000
August 1, 1989                                          295,000
February 1, 1990                                        305,000
August 1, 1990                                          315,000
February 1, 1991                                        330,000
August 1, 1991                                          350,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿24
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15 of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption                  Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1-1/4%
More than three years
but not more than six years
before maturity                                   2%
More than six years
but not more than eleven years
before maturity                                3-1/2%
More than eleven years
but not more than sixteen years
before maturity                                5-1/4%
More than sixteen years
but not more than eighteen years
before maturity                               6-1/4%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                7-1/4%


﻿25
SCHEDULE 5
Property to be Subject to the Mortgage
1.   The following property of the Borrower shall be subject to the Original
Mortgage pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement:
Property No.
Propiedad de Rio Macho                              54.579
(Obras de toma, sitio de
presa, tuneles)
2.   The following property of the Borrower shall be subject to the Supplemental
Mortgage pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01(b) of this Agreement:
Property No.
Propiedad Cachi                                    63457
(Casa de maquinas,
subestacion electrica
de Cachi)


