Report No. 1477a-IND
Indonesia
Appraisal of Irrigation IX
May 5, 1977
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients
otrw i the perdormance of theor offidaal duttesh tts corntets may not
otherwvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             =  Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100              = US$0.241
Rp 1 million        =  US$2,409.64
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)           =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                 =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km) =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)        =  35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                 =  0.264 gallons (USA)
1 liter/second (1/sec)      =  0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)          =  2,205 pounds
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton "dry stalk paddy"    =  800 kg paddy ("paddy gabah")
= 500 kg milled rice
1 ton paddy (gabah)         =  630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ARD           -       Agency for Research and Development
BIMAS         -       Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada BaXian Makanan
-         "Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs"
a farm input-credit package program
BRI           -       Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BULOG/DOLOG  -        Badan Urusan Logistik - "National Logistics Body"
- rice procurement agency/Depo Logistik - provincial
branch of BULOG
BUUD          -       Badan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village
Unit Cooperative
DGWRD         -       Director(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
DGC           -       Directorate General of Cooperatives
DGFC          -       Directorate General of Food Crops
DIP           -       Project implementation budget
DOI           -       Directorate of Irrigation
GOI           -       Government of Indonesia
HYV           -       High-Yielding Variety
INMAS         -       Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification"
- a farm input program
INPRES        -       Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a rural public works program
IPEDA         -       luran Penbangunan Dearah - Land Tax
KUD           -       Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
MIHA          -       Ministry of Home Affairs
MOA           -       Ministry of Agriculture
NEDECO        -       Netherlands Engineering Consultants
NFCE          -       National Food Crops Extension Project
O&M           -       Operation and maintenance
PPL           -       Lower level extension worker
PPM           -       Senior level extension worker
PPS           -       Subject matter specialist
PROSIDA       -       Proyek Irigasi IDA - Agency of DGWRD created to execute
IDA-assisted projects
REC           -       Rural Extension Center
SEDEKU        -       Semarang-Demak-Kudus Irrigation System in Central Java
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diaosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF IRRIGATION IX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i-i
1.  INTRODUCTION  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2.  BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Economy  . . . .                                          .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Agricultural Production ..                         ..  .. ..........              1
Project Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
3.  THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
General   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Climate ... 5
Clmte ..       ...           ...       ...                  . . . . . . 
Soils and Topography .....                                                      6
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure   . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Agricultural Production.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Storage, Processing and Marketing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Agricultural Support Program ......  .                  ..  .   ..  .  .    ..  8
Transportation  .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
4.  THE PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Project Works   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Water Supply, Demand and Quality  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Status of Engineering   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Implementation Schedule .................. . 13
Cost Estimates ....................... . 13
Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Accounts and Audits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Environmental Effects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
5.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Agricultural Support Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Monitoring Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Operation and Maintenance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Cost and Rent Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21



Page No.
6.  PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM. INCOME . . . . . .  22
Production.  .  .  ............  22
Market Prospects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Prices   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
Farm  Income    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
ANNEXES
1.  Climatological Data
2.  Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and 'Production
3.  Agricultural Supporting Program
4.  The Project Works
5.  Water Supply, Demand and Quality
6.  Consulting Services
7. Cost Estimate
8. Schedule of Expenditures
9.  Operation and Maintenance
10.  Commodity Price Structure
11.  Crop and Farm Budgets
12.  Farm Labor Analysis
13.  Economic Analysis
14.  Cost and Rent Recovery
Charts
8964    PROSIDA Subproject Organization, SEDEKU Project
16008   PROSIDA Management Organization
16017   Water Resources Organization Chart
17046   Estimated Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor:  SEDEKU Project
17134   Directorate of Irrigation Organization, Sungai Dareh Project
17255   Implementation Schedule, Sungai Dareh Project
17256   Implementation Schedule, SEDEKU Project
Maps
12632   Location Map
12642    SEDEKU Project
12643    Sungai Dareh Project



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF IRRIGATION IX
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        Agriculture accounts for over 40% of Indonesia's GDP, about 66% of
its employment and nearly 80% of its non-oil exports. Rice, which accounts
for 30% of agricultural production, is the staple food and, throughout the
First Five-Year Plan period (1969-74), Government programs concentrated on
expanding its production. Despite these programs, rice imports continue at
a rate in excess of 1.0 million tons per year, and self-sufficiency in rice
has remained a priority goal of the Government's Second Five-Year Plan
(1974-79).
2.        The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance to
carry out the proposed project, the ninth Bank-assisted irrigation project
aimed at increasing domestic rice production. With the exception of one pro-
ject that is assisting in the extension of an existing system (Credit 514-IND)
and another (Loan 1268-IND) that is introducing tertiary systems on part of
the areas covered by the first four credits, all the ongoing projects,
including one that was completed in March 1976 (Credit 127-IND), have concen-
trated on restoring major engineering works of existing irrigation systems to
their original design capacities in the shortest possible time. The eighth
irrigation project would initiate the rehabilitation and improvement of the
140,000 ha Madiun irrigation system, the last major irrigation system in Java
that is in need of rehabilitation. Construction work on the six ongoing
projects is progressing relatively well, although rising costs due to infla-
tion have created budgetary constraints, resulting in delays in the projects'
completion. Operation and maintenance (O&M) services on the completed
systems, which have been unsatisfactory in the past because of the insuffi-
ciency and untimely availability of O&M funds, have improved following the
allocation by the Central Government of substantially higher levels (30%
over 1975/76 levels) of O&M funds in its 1976/77 budget. To upgrade O&M
services to acceptable standards, however, there is further need for even,
higher levels of O&M funds, timely release of these funds, and an increase in
the number of qualified O&M personnel to effectively utilize the available
funds. To this end, GOI has agreed to allocate to the Bank-assisted irriga-
tion systems in FY77/78, O&M funds totaling about Rp 3,350 million, of which
about Rp 2,900 million would be for about 783,000 ha of rehabilitated systems
and the balance of about Rp 450 million for about 330,000 ha to be rehabili-
tated in the projects' remaining construction period. Although the above O&M
funds are only 10% higher than FY76/77 levels, substantial improvements in
O&M services are expected due to GOI's agreement to take the necessary steps
to ensure that at least half of the budgeted O&M funds would be released to
the subprojects by August 15 of each year, and the balance, in equal quarterly
installments until the funds are fully released; and to progressively increase
the number of qualified O&M personnel in the Bank-assisted projects until the
additional numbers to be established by GOI in consultation with the Bank are
employed.



- if -
3.        The proposed project would assist the completion of rehabilita-
tion and improvement of irrigation (8,000 ha) and coastal drainage works
(19,000 ha) in the 30,000 ha Semarang-Demak-Kudus (SEDEKU) irrigation system
in Central Java, which was started by GOI in 1970; construction of the first
stage (3,500 ha) of the new 20,000 ha Sungai Dareh-Sitiung irrigation system
in West Sumatera for the resettlement of the first 2,000 families to be
displaced by the Wonogiri dam and reservoir in Central Java and for about
2,000 indigenous families in the area; and employment of consultants (foreign
and local) to review existing designs and carry out studies and investigations
on the feasibility of constructing nine medium-scale irrigation systems in
Java, Sumatera and Sulawesi. The project components would require about 2,450
man-months of consultant services, of which about 1,650 man-months would be
provided by Indonesian consultants.
4.        The estimated cost of the proposed project is US$64 million
(Rp 26,575 million), of which US$32.8 million or approximately 51% would be
in foreign exchange. The Bank loan of US$35 million would finance the
foreign exchange cost of the project (US$32.8 million) and US$2.2 million of
local costs associated with financing expenditures of local consultants to
the same degree (80% of total cost) as foreign consultants. Vehicles and
equipment (US$3.5 million) would be procured after international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Works in the SEDEKU area
would involve a large number of small and different types of construction
activities scattered over a wide area, which could not be grouped into
contracts large enough to attract international contractors. This is also
the case for works in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area. These works would,
therefore, be carried out by force account (US$4.8 million) and locally
advertised contracts (US$43 million) in a number of suitably sized contracts
(minimum size US$125,000) that would enable large local contractors and joint
ventures of local firms to undertake the work. Consulting services and
mapping would cost US$12.7 million. Contingencies included in the above
costs would amount to US$19.9 million., of which US$11.2 million would be for
expected price increases during the four-year construction period.
5.        PROSIDA, an agency within the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development (DGWRD) of the Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power, which
completed one and is currently executing four other Bank-assisted projects,
would be responsible for implementing the SEDEKU component. The Directorate
of Irrigation (DOI) in the DGWRD would execute the Sungai Dareh component and
would supervise the feasibility studies on nine medium-scale irrigation
systems, which would be carried out by consultants to be engaged under the
project.
6.        The economic rates of return on the project components would be 18%
for SEDEKU and 15% for Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. Under a number of adverse
assumptions, the rate of return on each part of the project would not fall
below 10%.
7.        The proposed project is suitable for a loan of US$35 million for a
term of 20 years, including a grace period of 4-1/2 years.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance in
completing the rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation (8,000 ha) and
coastal drainage works (19,000 ha) in the 30,000 ha Semarang-Demak-Kudus
(SEDEKU) irrigation system in Central Java and in constructing the first
stage (3,500 ha) of the new 20,000 ha Sungai Dareh-Sitiung irrigation system
in West Sumatra. This would be the ninth Bank-assisted irrigation project in
Indonesia. With the exception of one project that is assisting in the
extension of an existing system (Credit 514-IND) and another (Loan 1268-IND)
that is introducing tertiary systems on part of the areas covered by the
first four Bank Group credits, all the ongoing projects, including one that
was completed in March 1976 (Credit 127-IND), have concentrated on restoring
major engineering works of existing irrigation systems to their original
design capacities in the shortest possible time. The eighth irrigation
project, which was concurrently negotiated with this project, would
initiate the improvement of the last major system in Java that is in need of
rehabilitation.
1.02      The feasibility study for the SEDEKU area was prepared by the
Semarang-Kudus Project Office with consultant assistance (NEDECO and Binnie
and Partners) and for Sungai Dareh (Stage I), by the DGWRD's /1 Directorate
of Irrigation (DOI) and its consultants (Nippon Koei and Indah Karya). This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs.
J.T. Caparas, J.J. O'Brien, M. Saddington, C.J. Poortman (Bank), K. Anderson,
A. Feinstein and P. Judd (Consultants), which visited Indonesia in October!
November 1976.
2. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent Devel-
opments and Medium-Term Perspective," of March 8, 1977 (1516-IND), reviewed
the medium- and long-term outlook for the Indonesian economy. That report
also examined the outlook, potentials and problems of Indonesian agriculture.
The main findings of that report are summarized in the President's Report for
this project.
Agricultural Production
2.02      Agriculture, together with forestry and fishing, accounts for over
40% of Indonesia's GDP. The sector also provides part- or full-time employ-
ment for about 70% of the total labor force in Indonesia, and accounts for
about 80% of the value of non-oil exports. Over the last five years the
volume of total rural output increased at an average rate of between 4% and
5% per annum; however, the volume of rice production, the country's staple
food, has been growing at between 3.5% and 4% over the same period.  This
/1 Directorate General of Water Resources Development.



-2 -
growth rate in supply has been insufficient to meet demand, and food grains
still need to be imported. Specific programs to boost rice production have
been included in both of Indonesia's Five-Year Plans (Repelita I covering
1969-74 and Repelita II covering 1974-79). These programs include rehabil-
itation of existing irrigation systems, creating rice price support policies,
providing funds for research and extension, and improving the supply of
seeds9 fertilizer, pesticide and credit. The Bank has been involved in
various ways with all of these programs and the Government's actions have
been relatively successful.
2.03      However, despite improvements in production and institutional
support, various studies indicate that unless foodgrain production in
Indonesia can be stimulated to grow at a rate of at least 4% per annum, the
current gap between supply and demand will widen in the future. The Govern-
ment has set its sights on self-sufficiency in foodgrains. However, to
achieve that goal there will be a continued need for adequate supplies of
credit, certified and high-yielding varieties of seed, fertilizer and pesti-
cides. In addition, there is a need to improve irrigation facilities and
drying and storage facilities for grains.
2.04      Although production of secondary field crops (palawija),/l is
believed to have declined during Repelita I partly because of shifts of
land use to rice production, their position remains significant. Under
Repelita II, their- production is being revitalized, and the Government has
extended the BINASu agricultural support program to several of these crops.
The Government has also begun research to improve palawija crop yields and
through the INPRES program, to construct market facilities at subdistrict and
village levels.
Project Formulation
2.05      Works on the SEDEKU project would represent a continuation of, and
those on Sungai Dareh-Sitiung a departure from, the type of projects that have
been undertaken with Bank assistance under the previous credits and loans.
Irrigation Projects I through VII had as a major thrust, the rehabilitation of
existing irrigation systems that: had become severely deteriorated due to
lack of maintenance over more than 30 years following the advent of World War
II. The rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems and the provision of
tertiary systems have been the most cost effective way of increasing agricul-
tural productivity through the utilization of available water supplies in
Indonesia. Most of the previous assistance has been concentrated on the
island of Java, which is the most intensely populated and developed area of
the Indonesian archipelago.
2.06      With the projected implementation of Irrigation VIII,/2 the
last major irrigation system in Java needing improvement would be under
/1  Palawija crops are those other than rice, sugar and estate crops; the
major ones are soybeans, groundnuts, cassava, corn, onions and other
vegetables.
/2  A US$63 million loan for Irrigation VIII was negotiated concurrently with
this project.



- 3 -
rehabilitation. In the remaining years of Repelita II, the Government would
give priority to the rehabilitation of irrigation systems outside Java,
accelerated completion of small- to medium-scale irrigation systems that are
currently under construction in Java and the other islands, and construction
of new irrigation systems in the other islands for indigenous and transmigrant
families. The development of tidal land in Sumatera for transmigrant families
and intensification of dry-season paddy cropping on existing irrigation
systems in Java, by regulating water supplies through the construction of
storage dams, would receive attention at the start of Repelita III (1979-84).
2.07      The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung project and the feasibility studies for
nine irrigation systems to be financed under the project would largely assist
in settling families displaced from irrigated areas in Java on lndeveloped
but potentially irrigable areas, especially on islands other than Java. The
Government chose the Sungai Dareh area (para. 3.02) as the resettlement site
for about 10,000 families to be displaced by the Wonogiri dam and reservoir
in Central Java because of the presence of a dependable water supply (para.
4.08) and the availability of virgin land which could be developed for
irrigated paddy production (para. 3.06). About 20,000 ha could be served by
a proposed gravity irrigation system, which is expected to be completed by
late 1985. To provide employment for the first 2,000 families that were
transmigrated from December 1976 to March 1977, however, the Government has
requested Bank assistance for financing the construction of an interim system
for 3,500 ha, which would be temporarily served by pumping. Although the
studies for the gravity system have not progressed beyond the prefeasibility
stage, a preliminary analysis based on a detailed layout and cost estimate
of the interim system indicated that it would be technically and economically
viable on its own. It has, therefore, been included for execution under the
project. The feasibility study for the remaining 16,500 ha would be com-
pleted under the project and, contingent upon its results, detailed designs
and tender documents would be prepared for the 16,500 ha. Construction would
be considered for financing under a future project.
2.08      The nine small- to medium-scale irrigation systems for which GOI has
requested Bank assistance for construction include two irrigation schemes in
Central Java (12,800 ha) and one in Sulawesi (20,000 ha), which are proposed
sites for the resettlement of about 15,000 families to be displaced by the
Jatigede project /1 and for about 25,000 indigenous families, and two systems
in Central Java (7,800 ha), two in West Sumatera (19,000 ha), one in North
Sumatera (7,000 ha) and one in South Sumatera (15,000 ha), which would be
developed for about 60,000 transmigrant and indigenous farm families./2
All nine projects have been studied in varying detail, and some construction
/1 A proposed storage project for irrigation and hydropower generation on
the Cimanuk river in West Java, which would provide a dry-season water
supply for the 92,000 ha Rentang irrigation system (Credit 127-IND). It
is being considered for financing under a future project.
/2 In Java, each family would receive 0.5 ha of irrigated land; in the other
islands, 1.0 ha.



- 4 -
has been undertaken at some project sites, but none of the projects satisfy
study standards and criteria for Bank appraisal. The proposed loan would
provide funds for the engagement of consultants to develop a feasibility
report for each proposed development, from which future Bank appraisal would
be based.
2.09      The third project component would involve the upgrading of a
30,000 ha area for irrigated agriculture by completing the rehabilitation
and improvement of the irrigation, drainage and flood control systems on the
East Semarang Plain in Central Java. Construction was started by GOI in 1970
but, because of limited funds, progress had been slow. Much of the area is
subjected to annual flooding that has discouraged proper maintenance of
existing irrigation systems and precluded vital investment in extension of
the tertiary system to achieve full productivity. Under the project, com-
pletion of project works would be accelerated to provide a comprehensive
solution to flooding problems in the area, develop the essential internal
drainage system for timely evacuation of local runoff and improve the existing
irrigation system.
3. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The 30,000 ha Semarang-Demak-Kudus (SEDEKU) irrigation system is
located on the 45,000 ha East Semarang plain on the north coast of Central
Java. It consists of nine distinct small- to medium-sized systems that are
susceptible to varying degrees of flooding. Twenty-three damaging floods in
the last 16 years inundated about 9,000 ha of those systems on an annual
basis, and about 19,000 ha once in 5 years. Flooding is produced by local
runoff that is not evacuated fast enough by the internal drains, and by
overbank flow from 4 main rivers and about 20 minor streams, which collect
runoff from upstream catchments and flow through the project area before
discharging into the Java Sea. To alleviate flooding, and to restore the
capacity of the 9 systems that have deterioratecd after almost 30 years of
neglect, GOI, in 1970, initiated the rehabilitation and improvement of the
SEDEKU irrigation system and 2 flood control and drainage schemes (Annex 4)
as part of the overall development of the Jratunseluna Basin /1. Three of
the nine irrigation systems (about 11,000 ha) were completely rehabilitated
with Bank Group assistance under the Glapan-SedaLdi subproject (Credit 127-IND),
but no provision was made for the rehabilitation or improvement of the flood
control and drainage works. About 14,500 ha distributed over the remaining
six systems were rehabilitated with GOI funds from 1970 to 1976, but because
of damage sustained from repeated floodings, somle 3,500 ha in these systems
would require repairs and further improvement. Including the 4,500 ha for
which nothing has been done to date, the total area requiring rehabilitation
/1 Jratunseluna stands for five river basins, namely, Jragung, Tuntang,
Serang, Lusi and Juana, studies for which were undertaken from 1970
to 1974 with consultant assistance (NEDECO) financed under bilateral
aid from the Netherlands.



and improvement would therefore be about 8,000 ha. The rehabilitation and
improvement of the two flood control and drainage schemes in the SEDEKU area,
which is being carried out wholly with GOI funds, has progressed slowly
because of budgetary constraints. The uncompleted works, which are currently
estimated at 85% of the total, would be implemented under the proposed project.
3.02      The proposed Sungai Dareh-Sitiung irrigation system is located along
the south bank of the Batang /1 Hari, approximately 130 km east of Padang, the
administrative and commercial center of West Sumatera Province. About half of
its 20,000 ha command area, which is dictated by topography rather than by
water supply (para. 4.08), has been designated by GOI as the resettlement site
for about 10,000 families that would be displaced by the construction of the
Wonogiri dam in Central Java. The remaining 10,000 ha have been set aside for
some 10,000 farm families that had settled spontaneously or had been transmi-
grated earlier on the surrounding areas. Construction of an access road into
the area from the Trans-Sumatera highway, clearing of land for about 2,000
resettlement homesites of 0.25 ha each, and construction of about 1,000 houses
have been completed, and construction of internal roads and additional
houses is in progress. GOI has already invested some US$4.0 million for
clearing homesites and constructing houses and village infrastructure. The
standards of these works, which amount to about US$2,000 per new family, are
excessive and would be reviewed in detail during preparation of the feasibility
study for the remaining 16,500 ha (para. 4.04). In December 1976, the Depart-
ment of Transmigration resettled the first 500 families from Wonogiri, and the
number of resettled families reached 2,000 by March 31, 1977. Resettlement of
the 10,000 families is expected to be completed by mid-1980.
3.03      Because of the urgency of providing a livelihood for the first 2,000
families from Wonogiri, (para 2.07) an interim system for 3,500 ha, consisting
of 2,000 ha of new land cleared by GOI and 1,500 ha of currently rainfed land
owned by about 2,000 indigenous families, would be constructed under the
project. The interim system would be supplied with water from a temporary
pumping station on the Batang Hari, and its canals and structures would be
designed to be compatible with the ultimate gravity system for 20,000 ha. The
works for the remaining 16,500 ha would be constructed following completion of
the feasibility report and arrangement of suitable financing. The temporary
pumping station would be dismantled after completion of the ultimate gravity
system, for use in other areas.
Climate
3.04      The climate of Indonesia is fairly homogenous, even though the
country spreads over a longitudinal distance of about 5,000 km (95 E to 135°E
and latitudinal distance of about 1,800 km (50N to 10°S). Average annual
temperature is about 26 & with a variation of only about 3-4 C throughout the
nation (excluding the relatively uninhabited higher mountainous regions).
Two distinct seasonal weather patterns occur comprising a wet (northwest
monsoon) and dry (southwest monsoon) season generally extending from
/1 Batang means river in the West Sumatran dialect.



- 6-
November to May and June through October, respectively. Mean annual precipi-
tation in the area covered by the project in Java, Sumatera and Sulawesi
ranges from about 1,500 to 3,000 mm, except in the Cilandak and Ciletuh areas
in Java where it approaches or exceeds 4,000 mm p.er annum. Further informa-
tion on the climate in each of the specific project areas is contained in
Annex I.
Soils and Topography
3.05      The soils in the SEDEKU project area are allivial, and of volcanic
origin. They are slightly acid to alkaline in reaction9, contain sufficient
organic matter, and have a high clay content.  They are suited for rice
production, which has been the major crop in the project area for many years.
The rice crop responds positively to nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers.
The topography is flat, with four principal rivers, the Penggaron, Dolok,
Setu and Jragung, flowing from the higher land in the south to empty into the
Java sea in the north. These rivers regularly overtop their banks and flood
several portions of the project area, particularly the land just south of the
Semarang-Demak road.
3.06      The soils in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung aLrea are a mixture of red-
yellow podzolics and alluvial deposits. Normally, red-yellow podzolics in
Indonesia are shallow, quite permeable, unstable and infertile, They erode
only slightly under natural vegetation but, when bare and fallow, they erode
extensively. To prevent excessive erosion under cultivation, the wet-season
crop should provide adequate groundcover. The instability of the soil causes
a rapid breakdown of recently formed organic matter, such as grass roots and
straw. This breakdown, which occurs under predominantly high moisture and
temperature conditions, leads to the leaching of formed cations, particularly
nitrates, phosphates and potash. Under rainfed farming, therefore, these
soils can quickly become unproductive unless high levels of organic matter
are maintained through good soil management practices. Nevertheless, rainfed
crops could be profitably grown on them if crop management is reasonably good
and adequate amounts of fertilizer are applied. Under the proposed year
round irrigated paddy conditions at Sungai Dareh, these soils would be even
more productive because: (a) soil erosion and the consequent loss of fertil-
ity and destruction of soil structure would be minimal; (b) under the water-
logged conditions that would prevail, nutrients (especially phosphates) would
be more readily available, little nitrate would leach out (except from the
1-3 mm of surface soil where oxygen in the standing water may cause some
nitrification), and loss of nitrogen as gas into the air would be virtually
absent; (c) organic matter would mineralize slowly; and (d) the shallow,
dense rice root system would gradually build up the organic matter content of
the soil. Furthermore, since the soils at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung are mixed with
alluvial deposits, they contain more fine soil particles and their percolation
rates are, therefore, less than those of true red-yellow podzolics. On
comparable soils in Lampung (Way Seputih, Credit .127-IND) and on irrigated
land in West Sumatera, farmers have produced average paddy yields of about
3.9 ton/ha per crop. For the above reasons, it is reasonable to expect
that the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung soils would be suitiable for irrigated paddy
production.



-7-
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.07      Rehabilitation and drainage of the SEDEKU area would serve an esti-
mated rural population of 0.5 million, comprising about 60,000 farm and
40,000 landless-laborers families. At Sungai Dareh-Sitiung, the project
would serve about 24,000 people, consisting of 2,000 existing farm families
and 2,000 farm families who would migrate to the area.
3.08      Farm size and land tenure data are sketchy.  Information from
surveys and local officials suggest an average farm size of 0.5 ha at SEDEKU,
and 0.75 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung on the area already settled and which
would be irrigated. On the area to be developed and not yet settled, the
farm size would be 1.0 ha. The following is a rough estimate of the present
distribution of farm size at SEDEKU:
Farm Size             No. of Farms      Cultivated Area
(ha)              ----------(%-)---------------
Less than 0.5              58                  30
0.5 - 1.0                  28                  34
1.0 - 2.0                  13                  31
More than 2.0               1                   5
3.09      At SEDEKU, some 60% of farmers are owner-operators, and 40% share-
croppers, while at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung all farmers are owner-operators. In
most sharecropping arrangements, the tenant and the landowner split the
production, input and harvesting costs. The tenant provides the labor and
the landowner pays the land tax. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area has no
landless laborers; however, in the SEDEKU area they comprise 40% of the rural
population.
Agricultural Production
3.10      Irrigated rice is the most important crop in the SEDEKU project
area. During the wet season, paddy is irrigated on 30,000 ha, and in the dry
season on 2,600 ha. Additionally, some 4,000 ha of palawija crops are
partially irrigated during the dry season, giving an overall annual cropping
intensity of 122%. Soybean is the major secondary crop. All the project
area is flooded, which depresses crop yields. However, floods of differing
occurence frequency affect only certain portions of the area. While some
9,000 ha are flooded annually, the remaining 21,000 ha are flooded every two
to five years. Crop yields are also affected by the efficiency of the
irrigation systems. Approximately 70% of the area's irrigation systems
have been rehabilitated and, consequently, yields on these areas are higher
than on the nonrehabilitated areas. Farmers plant only local rice varieties
and use little fertilizer or other inputs on the 9,000 ha that are flooded
annually. They plant 40% of their rice areas on the remaining 21,000 ha to
high-yielding rice varieties (HYVs) in the wet season, and 50% during the dry
season. Average wet season paddy yields are 1.9 ton/ha on the annually
flooded areas (9,000 ha) and 3.3 ton/ha on the 21,000 ha; dry season paddy is
limited to areas not subject to annual flooding and yields are 3.5 ton/ha.
Soybeans yield 0.5 ton/ha. The flooding not only reduces crop yields and
discourages farmers from using credit and crop inputs (HYVs, fertilizer and



- 8 -
pesticide), it also increases crop production costs, damages irrigation facil-
ities, and reduces the area farmers can plant to irrigated dry-season crops.
3.11      Between the project area and the coastline, there are 21,000 ha of
fishponds on which some 15,000 families depend for their subsistence. Floods,
as they leave the project area, flow through this area before entering the
sea. An estimated 25% of the fishponds are damaged annually with a 50% loss
of the potential fish crop from the damaged ponds.
3.12      Secondary forest, bush and grass cover most of the Sungai Dareh-
Sitiung project area. During the wet season farmers grow rainfed rice on
1,500 ha, but do not crop this area in the dry season. Rainfed paddy yields
average about 1.6 ton/ha. Annex 2 gives more details on agricultural produc-
tion.
Storage, Processing and Marketing
3.13      Farmers sun dry paddy and store it in their houses.  Insufficient
concrete drying floors makes drying of the wet season crop difficult, and
losses from rainfall can be considerable. Since farmer storage space is not
always vermin proof, and cannot be readily fumigated, losses from rodents
and insects are also high. Farmer cooperatives (BUUD/KUDs) and private
individuals own more than sufficient rice mills at SEDEKU to handle the
current annual production. At Sungai Dareh-Sitiung, private individuals own
two rice mills which also are adequate for current production. Future
increases in demand for milling capacity would be readily met, either by
private capital or BUUD/KUDs. The rice milled is medium grade, around 35%
broken.
3.14      At SEDEKU project area, farmers sell about 10% of the total annual
paddy production to BUUD/KUDs and middlemen. At Sungai Dareh-Sitiung, farmers
consume all their paddy production. The BUUD/KUDs at SEDEKU act as the pur-
chasing agent of the Government's paddy/rice marlketing agency (BULOG/DOLOG),
and buy a standard grade of paddy at a fixed floor price. The floor price is
currently Rp 70 (US$0.17)/kg for 14% moist paddy at the village. Although
during nonharvest periods prices on the open marlcet are usually higher than
the floor price, farmers are often forced to sel:L their paddy below the floor
price during the wet-season harvest. In some cases, inadequate facilities
prevent paddy from being dried to the required 14% content standard. In
other cases, BUUD/KUD exhaust their credit lines from BULOG and are unable to
obtain cash to pay the farmers. The farmers, who need cash immediately to
meet tax payments or to pay off the last season's debts so that they can
purchase inputs for the new season, are then forced to sell their paddy on
the open market at a discount. Farmers sell their surplus secondary crop
production in village and subdistrict markets.
Agricultural Support Program
3.15      The BIMAS program provides farmers with subsidized credit, ferti-
lizer, agrochemicals; allowances for HYV seed, spraying, and cost of living;
and extension advice for crop production. At SEDEKU, the BIMAS program
covers 30% of the irrigated wet-season paddy crop, and 5% of the irrigated
dry-season paddy. The program does not yet operate at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung.



- 9 -
3.16      The National Seed Corporation at Sukamandi (Credit 246-IND) produces
limited supplies of certified paddy seed. This is distributed through BUUD/
KUDs at Rp 150/kg. At SEDEKU, seed growers who obtain their planting material
from district seed farms of the provincial agricultural services, also supply
some certified seed.
3.17      In the SEDEKU project area, staff of the Directorate of Food Crops
Agriculture within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) provide extension ser-
vices to farmers.  Although all farmers are entitled to extension services,
only BIMAS recipients currently receive extension advice due to the shortage
of trained staff.  The National Food Crops Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND)
is correcting this deficiency.  Although extension officers at the subdistrict
level visit the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung project area, extension advice at the
farm is practically nonexistent. Annex 3 gives more details on agricultural
support programs.
Transportation
3.18      The SEDEKU area is intersected by the main east-west highway running
along the north coast of Java. Away from the hard-surfaced highway, the
secondary roads are of variable quality and condition, but usually passable in
the dry season. Floods severely damage the road network during the wet
season, disrupting traffic and communications. A considerable part of the
project area is virtually isolated from motorized transport and at a severe
disadvantage with respect to access to agricultural services/inputs and
markets.
3.19      The asphalt-paved Trans-Sumatera Highway passes through the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area and will ultimately (1979) connect the project area with
the harbor of Padang. At present there are no secondary roads in the area.
4. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project is shown on Map 12632 and would include the
following components:
(a) completion of the rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation
(8,000 ha) and flood control and drainage works (19,000), including
tertiary development on 17,000 ha of the 30,000 ha SEDEKU irrigation
system in Central Java (Map 12642);
(b) construction of the 3,500 ha initial phase of the 20,000 ha Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung irrigation system in West Sumatera, feasibility study
for the remaining 16,500 ha, and, depending upon the results of
the study, detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents
for the 16,500 ha (Map 12643); and
(c) provision of local and expatriate consulting services for studies
and investigations of nine small- to medium-sized irrigation projects
in Java, Sumatera and Sulawesi.



Project Works
4.02      Details of the pro4ect -.o7  -s               Arex 4 and are sum-
marized as follows:
SEDEKU Project
(a)  rehabilitation of about 130 1-;       z m,:   and secondary irrigation
canals and about 200 divi         4       &ir -  _ad related canal structures,
including some bridges;
(b)  rehabilitation and improvC--: -     _00  k         of terti-ary irriga-
tion canals, inc;ludi-ng abo.- .
(c)  tertiary development on 127GC; OC -2iaI{E!Aing of the construction of
about 1,200 km of tert      am-   d.. L- irrigation canals, 680 km
of tertiary and quaternary dWaiVo, a          _a;     1,200 tertiary and
quaternary canal structures;
(d)  construction of about 20 km of cat-n&_1 aid riverbank protection;
(e)  excavation of about 110 km of           emisting flood channels;
(f)  construction and/cr rehfil          o_  about 25 flap and automati-
cally controlled flood aeid dEaaf   a tes;
(g)  construction and/or reh-abiii-f-ic  Of about 200 km of flood
embankments and about 70 km of 2:,.Las.3Ction and access roads;
(h)  rehabilitatior. and iomprove- ae            nt . -.   0 km of telecommunica-
tion lines and related £ac--
(i)  construction of operatio a   ai- .:     ance (O&M) staff housing; and
(j)  procurement of vehicles and   aiie m'c-
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung_ pr_Oo4ect
(a)  construction of a temporary              ,iatEr supply pumping plant
with capacity of 5e5 cia n/s      _:      oZ 29 m for the 3,500 ha
initial phase of the proiect.
(b)  construction of 30 km of primary Li-d 35_m of secondary irrigation
canals and about 100 control an:_t          structures;
(c)  construction of about 50 km Ci ct              secondary drainage
channels;
(d)  tertiary development on 33,500 ti   S- s g of the construction of
about 55 km of tertiary Eand StfcL        - anals, about 185 km of
quaternary canals, about 140 4,a .       'ry and quaternary drains,
and about 350 tertiary and qaate.        canal structures;
(e)  construction of about 75 km o fz              and access roads;



- 11 -
(f) installation of about 50 km of telecommunication lines and related
facilities;
(g) construction of O&M staff housing; and
(h) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Consulting Services
4.03      Consulting services (Annex 6) would be provided to assist in the
implementation of the three project components. Assurances were obtained
from the Government that consultants acceptable to the Bank would be engaged
by December 31, 1977 under terms and conditions approved by the Bank.
4.04      For the SEDEKU project, about 50 man-months of foreign consultant
services are included for supervising construction of the flood control and
surface drainage works and the rehabilitation of primary and secondary irri-
gation systems. About 220 man-months of local consultant assistance are also
provided for the preparation of detailed designs and construction drawings
for tertiary systems on 17,000 ha.
4.05      Consultants would be utilized on the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung project to
complete detailed designs and supervise construction of the 3,500 ha initial
stage. The same consultants would complete the required investigations and
prepare a feasibility report covering completion of the project to its full
20,000 ha potential. Particular attention would be devoted to the review of
design standards for housing and village infrastructure to ensure that the
cost of these works per family would be compatible with the investment in irri-
gation development. Contingent upon the results of the feasibility study and,
subject to the approval of GOI and the Bank, the consultants would proceed
with the detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents for the
remaining area (16,500 ha). The consultants would plan and design the initial
stage to be compatible with the ultimate project to assure that an integrated
project results. To perform the above services, about 295 man-months of
foreign and 540 man-months of local consultant assistance would be required.
4.06      Consulting services (465 man-months foreign and 870 man-months
local) included in the project would be for the review of existing studies
and designs, and for additional studies and investigations required to
establish the feasibility of constructing small- to medium-sized irrigation
systems on nine proposed sites in Java, Sumatera and Sulawesi.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.07      The SEDEKU area receives its water supply from 4 main rivers and
about 20 minor streams. There is an adequate water supply for the entire
area in the wet season; however, the lack of storage and low streamflow in
the dry season limits irrigation to only about 22% of the irrigable area.
This will increase with the project to about 35% due to more effective
conveyance and distribution of available supplies, and elimination of the
need to replant paddy following annual floods. This latter condition results
in the encroachment of the late wet-season replanted paddy upon the limited
river flow which would otherwise be available for dry-season crops. Removal
of silt deposits in canals and river channels, which are used for irrigation



- 12 -
water conveyance, would increase their capacity to meet demands as well as to
reduce overbank flows in time of floods.
4.08       The maximum diversion requirement for the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
project, based on an average percolation rate of 1.5 mm/day and evapotrans-
piration rates computed by the Penman Formula, is estimated to be about
1.6 1/sec/ha.  Considering that the minimum recorded flow of the Batang Hari
is about 80 cu m/sec, the diversion requirement of about 32 cu m/sec for the
entire project and about 5.5 cu m/sec for the initial stage could be readily
satisfied. Although this minimum flow was obtained from only one year of
discharge measurements, dry season flows in future years are expected to be
significantly higher than the peak diversion requirement because of the large
catchment area-service area ratio (about 20)./1
4.09       The Batang Hari drains relatively virgin lands, and tests made on
water samples obtained from it indicate that wat(er quality ranges from good
to excellent for sustained irrigation.  There are no physical or chemical
constraints to the combination of those waters with project soils. Analyses
that have been made indicate that total dissolveil solids would be about
100 ppm. Hardness and the sodium absorption ratio are also good to excellent
for sustained irrigation use.
4.10      Additional information concerning the water supply, demand and
quality of project water is contained in Annex 5.
Status of Engineering
4.11      SEDEKU Project.  The major study and p:Lan for the integrated devel-
opment of the Jratunseluna Basin (para. 3.01), including improvement of flood
conditions in the East Semarang area, was conducted by GOI and its consultants
(NEDECO, 1970-74) with bilateral assistance from the Netherlands. The study
for one of the two flood control and drainage schemes to be constructed in
the area under the project presupposed construction of the Jragung dam on the
Jragung River upstream of the area for irrigation, hydropower generation and
flood control. A feasibility study has been completed for Jragung dam and it
is anticipated that Bank assistance for construction will be requested by GOI
in the near future. Until the dam is constructed, the Jragung river 50-year
flood would exceed the design flood by about 30%. In the event such a flood
occurs, some portions of the Jragung embankments may be breached or overtopped.
4.12      Detailed designs and construction drawings for works included in
the project were prepared by NEDECO. The Semarang-Kudus Project Office,/2
with the assistance of their consultants (Binnie and Partners), reviewed the
designs and updated the cost estimates.
/1  Experience in Indonesia indicates that an irrigation system which draws
its supply from an unregulated stream would be capable of supporting
two crops of paddy annually if the ratio of the catchment area above its
diversion structure to its service area is 7-9, or greater.
/2 An agency within the DGWRD's Directorate of Planning and Programming
which supervised the NEDECO study.



- 13 -
4.13      Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Project.  The project's prefeasibility study
was completed by the Directorate of Irrigation (DOI) with consultant assis-
tance (Nippon Koei-Indah Karya). Based on the above study, DOI prepared the
detailed layout of the interim system. The 1:5,000 scale maps with 0.5 m
contours for detailed engineering of the system have been completed for the
initial stage (3,500 ha), and similar maps for the entire service area
(20,000 ha) are expected to be completed by June 1977. Consultants to be
engaged under the project (para. 4.05) would design and supervise construc-
tion of the initial stage.
4.14      Small- and Medium-Sized Systems.  Engineering studies on all nine
of these irrigation systems have been completed by GOI to varying degrees of
detail, but none of them are adequate for Bank appraisal. Consultants to be
engaged under the project (para. 4.07) would review existing designs and
carry out additional studies and investigations to establish economic via-
bility of the proposed systems and to provide a basis for estimating project
costs.
Implementation Schedule
4.15      Implementation schedules for the SEDEKU and Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
projects are shown in Charts 17256 and 17255. For SEDEKU, a four-year
construction program would be required. Work would progress concurrently on
all aspects of the project, flood control, drainage and irrigation systems,
with the staging of works planned and scheduled to make each dry season's
work fully functional at the beginning of the ensuing wet season. Those
elements of the work that can be completed in a single dry season would be
grouped and accomplished by concentrated effort. Work requiring more than
one dry season would be conducted to minimize loss of effort and damage by
excessive water during the wet season.
4.16      For Sungai Dareh-Sitiung, construction of project works would also
require four years. Initial activity would be directed to construction of
the pumping plant and primary canal and procurement of electrical and mechan-
ical equipment for the pumping plant. Construction of the secondary and
tertiary irrigation canals and drains would follow sequentially. It is
anticipated that the resettled population would be utilized during this
period to assist in the construction activity.
Cost Estimates
4.17      The total project cost is estimated at US$64 million, of which
US$32.8 million, or 51%, is the foreign exchange component. The Semarang-
Kudus Project Office (SKPO) estimated the cost of the SEDEKU project based on
quantities calculated for the entire project area and unit costs of similar
ongoing works in Java. DOI estimated the cost of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
project (3,500 ha) using quantities calculated for the entire system and unit
costs of similar ongoing works in West Sumatera. Based on experience with
previous irrigation projects in Indonesia, the following adjustments in the
cost estimates were introduced during appraisal: (a) the base estimates were
increased for some civil works items (excavation, fill, concrete, masonry,
etc.); (b) all costs were updated to end-1977 prices; (c) physical contingen-
cies of 10% were added for services (studies and investigations), which can



- 14 -
generally be estimated to within 10% accuiracy, and 25%£ for the rehabilitation
and construction components, to provide for additional work or changed con-
ditions that may be encountered after the work areas are dewatered. The cost
estimates also include an allowance for expected price increases during cor-
struction (21% of base cost plus physical contingencies), which are based on
the following inflation rates projected from a large number of civil works
contracts in the irrigation sector in Indonesia:
(a) Civil works - 20% in 1977, 15% in 1978-79, and 12% in L980-81; and
(b) Equipment and services - 7.5% in 1977-79 and 7% in 1980-81L
Costs of consulting services are based on recent contracts signed in Indonesia
for similar services with local and foreign firms. The direct cost of foreign
consultants (salaries, overseas allowance, company overhead and fee) amount
to about US$6,500 per man-month. Including indirect costs (travel, housing,
office and miscellaneous expenses), the total cost would be about US$8,000
per man-month. By comparison, total costs of local consultants amount to
about US$2,000 per man-month.
4.18      Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 7 and are
summarized below.
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
---- (Rp million) ---   --- (US$ million)      (%)
SEDEKU
Irrigation and
Drainage             6,020   5,070  11,090    14.5    12.2    26.7        46
Sungai Dareh
Irrigation           2,030   2,580   4,610      4.9      6.2    11.1      56
Studies and Investi-
gations                830   1,790   2,620      2.0      4.3     6.3      68
Base Cost            8,880   9,440  18,320    21.4    22.7    44,1        51
Physical Contin-
gencies              1,785   1,825   3,610      4.3      4.4     8.7      51
Expected Price
Increases            2,280   2,365   4.645      5.5      5.7    11.2      51
Total Project Cost 12,945  13,630  26,575    31.2    32.8    64.0         51
Financing
4.19      The proposed loan of US$35 million would finance the full foreign
exchange cost of the project (US$32.8 million) and US$2.2 million of local
costs associated with financing expenditures of local consultants to the same



- 15 -
degree (80% of total cost) as foreign consultants. It would cover 55% of
total project costs and 7% of local costs. GOI would provide the remaining
Rp 12,035 million (US$29 million) to PROSIDA /1 and DOI out of annual budget
appropriations.
Procurement /2
4.20      Pumping equipment, vehicles, and equipment for construction and
operation, costing about US$3.5 million, would be procured under international
competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A
preference equal to 15% of the cif cost of the imported goods or the customs
duty, whichever is smaller, would be extended to qualified local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$10,000 each and limited to a total of US$100,000, which are not suitable
for international bidding, would be procured through normal Government
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. There are sufficient supplies
of such goods to ensure adequate competition. All contracts for vehicles or
equipment exceeding US$100,000 in value would be submitted to the Bank for
review before bidding and award.
4.21       Mapping (US$1.2 million) in the areas covered by the feasibility
studies would be carried out under locally advertised contracts following
usual Government procedures acceptable to the Bank. There are suficient
qualified mapping contractors in Indonesia to assure competition. Consultant
services (US$11.5 million) would be procured in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines.
4.22      The construction of small structures for tertiary systems in the
SEDEKU area and for all civil works in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung project,
which are scattered over a wide area and time span would not be of interest
to international contractors. The same would apply to the irrigation and
drainage works in the SEDEKU area, which would involve a large number of
small and differing types of construction activities scattered over a wide
area and could, therefore, not be grouped into contracts large enough to
attract international contractors. These works would be carried out by force
account (US$4.8 million) or locally advertised contracts (US$43 million)
following current Government procurement procedures. Local contracting
procedures were reviewed under the previous seven Bank Group projects and are
acceptable with the following changes agreed upon by the Government: (a)
except for tertiary canals and structures, the project works would be divided
into a number of suitable contracts (minimum size US$125,000) that would
enable large local contracting firms and joint ventures of smaller contractors
to bid within the categories or classes for which Government regulations
require them to be prequalified; (b) to minimize late construction starts
early in the dry season, invitations to bid for such contracts would be issued
as bid documents are completed, and bids would be received and processed
without waiting for the project implementation budget (DIP) to be signed, but
contract award and signing would be done after the DIP is approved; and
(c) price escalation clauses, which are not provided in local civil works
/1 Agency of DGWRD which was created to execute IDA-assisted projects.
/2 All costs in this section of the report include contingencies.



- 16 -
contracts, would be included in contracts extending beyond one year. For
contracts estimated to cost US$500,000 and above, documents would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for review before tendering and award.
Disbursements
4.23      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of dLirectly imported vehicles and equipment, 95% of the ex-fac-
tory cost of locally manufactured equipment, 65% for locally procured imported
equipment, excluding vehicles, and 40% of total expenditures for locally
procured vehicles. Disbursements for both foreign and local consultants
would be at 100% of total costs to encourage the use of local consultants and
to enable the executing agencies to engage consu:Ltants expeditiously, since
prior budgetary allocations would not be needed. Disbursements for mapping
would be at the rate of 80% of total expenditures, and for civil works,
including tertiaries, at 60% of total costs. Disbursements for tertiaries
would, however, be made only if each withdrawal application is accompanied by
a certificate from the site engineer stating that: all quaternary canals and
drains in the tertiary block (four tertiary units of about 150 ha each) had
also been constructed. Disbursements for force account works would be made
against certificates of expenditure, the document:ation for which would not
be submitted to the Bank for review, but would be retained by the borrower
and made available for inspection by the Bank's supervision missions. In
consultation with the Bank, any savings under the project would be used to
finance similar additional works in the project area.  The estimated schedule
of expenditures on the project and the disbursement schedule are presented in
Annex 8. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1981,
about six months after the construction period.
Accounts and Audits
4.24      The accounts of PROSIDA and DOI would be audited annually by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were obtained from
the Government that: (a) the above agencies would maintain separate accounts
for the project; (b) auditors acceptable to the Bank would be engaged to
audit these accounts; and (c) audited financial statements, together with the
auditors' comments and opinion on the certificates of expenditure for force
account works, would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close
of each fiscal year.
Environmental Effects
4.25      The two elements of the project that involve construction activi-
ties would each have local environmental impacts affecting the project lands
and waterways. Studies of the nine resettlement projects would have no
significant environmental effects.
4.26      The SEDEKU area has been settled and developed for agricultural,
village and fish farming activities for many years, and the environmental
character of the area reflects those uses. The use of fertilizers and pesti-
cides is already widespread in the area. People are constantly reminded of



- 17 -
the toxic effect of pesticides on humans and domestic animals, and no adverse
effects are envisaged provided care is exercised in their application. The
work proposed would modify the man-made ecology of some existing channels,
drains and irrigation systems. Impacts on the human environment would be
predominantly beneficial. There would be a reduction in the threat, magni-
tude and recurrence of flooding of farmlands, fish farms, villages, homes
and other infrastructure. Annual epidemics that occur in the flood season
(particularly cholera) would be reduced. Water supplies used by the villages
would be improved and the potential for mosquito breeding would be reduced.
4.27      The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area is essentially a virgin area having
an environmental and ecological character identical to that of much of the
undeveloped area of West Sumatera. Clearing, leveling, settlement and
development of the area would alter its environmental character. There are
no known unique or endangered species in the project area. The 3,500 ha in
the project are but a small part of the millions of hectares in Sumatera
having identical natural conditions. The greatest environmental impact would
be the alteration of the area from its present hostile nature to one to where
man could live, survive and prosper in harmony with it.
4.28      The overall impact of the entire project upon the human environment
would be positive.
5. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization
5.01      PROSIDA, which completed rehabilitation works under Credit 127-IND
and is currently in charge of works under Credits 220, 289-IND, Loans 1100
and 1268-IND and portions of the proposed Irrigation VIII project, would
implement the SEDEKU subproject. It would carry out day-to-day supervision
of construction through its office and staff in Semarang, which would be
brought to full strength with the assignment of experienced personnel drawn
from the recently rehabilitated Glapan-Sedadi subproject (Credit 127-IND).
DOI, which is responsible for all irrigation development in Indonesia outside
the PROSIDA and Jatiluhur areas, would implement the Sungai Dareh subproject.
It would direct the work through its Provincial Irrigation Service field
office in Sungai Dareh, whose staff would be strengthened with the assignment
of experienced personnel drawn from DGWRD and PROSIDA subprojects that are
nearing completion. Chart 16017 shows the DGWRD general organization; Chart
16008, the PROSIDA management structure; Chart 8964, the PROSIDA organization
for the SEDEKU project; and Chart 17134, the DOI organization for the Sungai
Dareh project.
5.02      With its long experience in executing Bank-assisted irrigation
projects, PROSIDA should have no difficulty in implementing its part of the
work with the assistance of consultants. Although DOI is new to the Bank, it
has had many years experience in executing projects financed with bilateral
assistance from the United States, Netherlands, Japanese, British and Canadian
Governments. It is, therefore, expected to have no difficulty in carrying out
its part of the work with the assistance of consultants. Assurances were,



- 18 -
however, obtained from the Government that: (a) the PROSIDA and DOI subproject
offices engaged in project implementation would be adequately staffed; and (b)
it would consult with the Bank before appointing a replacement for the General
Manager of PROSIDA or the Director of Irrigation.
Agriculture Support Services
5.03      In order to attain the full future benefits of the proposed projects,
agriculture support services need to be strengthened in the SEDEKU area, and
introduced into the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area. Wlile this project does not
contain assistance to any agricultural support program, GOI has several
ongoing programs which it would expand at SEDEKU, and introduce at Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung. The Bank is assisting GOI in upgrading some of these programs,
such as the extension service through Loan 1267-IND, the National Food Crops
Extension Project (NFCE), and medium-term credit services through Credit
480-IND, and the upcoming Rural Credit Project. The Bank is also discussing
with GOI the introduction of several other programs to improve agricultural
supporting services, such as building village fert:ilizer stores, upgrading
the management and operation of farmer cooperatives, and a second seeds
project.
5.04       The MOA, Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), Directorate General of Trans-
migration (DGT), and Directorate General of Cooperatives (DGC) would supply
agricultural supporting services in the project areas. At SEDEKU the recently
introduced NFCE project would intensify and expancl extension services by
reorganizing and increasing the number of field extension workers, and by
rehabilitating and/or constructing rural extension centers for about every ten
village units (10,000-12,000 farmers). At Sungai Dareh-Sitiung it would
construct one rural extension center and introduce one field extension worker
(PPL) to every 500-600 farmers. While this is a higher ratio than normal
under the NFCE project, it would be possible as the total number of extension
workers involved would be small. This higher ratio is justified in light of
the exacting management procedures associated with rice growing on red-yellow
podzolic soils. As at SEDEKU, the PPLs would be supervised by middle-level
extension workers (PPMs), and subject matter specialists (PPSs) at the dis-
trict level would support and train both the PPLs and PPMs. The PPSs would
also conduct crop adaptive research at the district and subdistrict levels.
The BIMAS Secretariat, within the MOA, would exparLd the BIMAS program (subsi-
dized credit to cover seed, fertilizers, pesticides, crop spraying and cost
of living expenses) at SEDEKU, and introduce it at: Sungai Dareh-Sitiung.
BRI, which provides credit for the BIMAS program, would increase its field
staff at SEDEKU and build and staff a village unit office at Sungai Dareh.
Besides providing farmers with production credit through the village unit,
BRI would also supply them longer term credit (three-five years) for any
necessary land-leveling and for the purchase of drought animals, ploughs and
other required farm equipment. The DGT would supply farmers at Sungai Dareh
with some clothing, tools, cooking utensils, and seed, plus food for their
first nine months of residence. The total value of DGTs assistance is some
Rp 130,000 per family. The DGC would establish BUUD/KUDs and village fer-
tilizer stores (kiosks) at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung to handle fertilizer and
pesticide distribution at the retail level. The BUUD/KUDs would be equipped
with paddy drying floors, grain warehouses, and rice milling facilities. By
purchasing paddy from farmers, they would also undertake their usual task of
maintaining GOI's paddy support price at the farm level.



- 19 -
5.05      At full development, demand for fertilizer would rise from its
current level of 5,000 tons to 9,000 tons/year at SEDEKU, and from near zero
ton to 2,300 tons/year at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. The existing fertilizer
supply channel at SEDEKU could handle the increased demand, and the repairing
and upgrading of subdistrict roads under the INPRES program would help
improve the distribution efficiency at the village level. The demand for
certified rice seed would be 400 tons at SEDEKU and 70 tons at Sungai Dareh
at full development. To meet these targets at SEDEKU, the quality of local
seed growers' production would be upgraded under the provincial agriculture
services ongoing work. At Sungai Dareh-Sitiung the provincial agricultural
service would have to establish local seed growers. After project completion,
production credit requirements would also rise. At SEDEKU, the annual
project area need would increase from Rp 330 million to Rp 830 million.
While the BRI would be able to supply these funds, it would have to increase
its field staff to avoid delays in processing and issuing the credits. The
BRI has been gradually improving its services to farmers, and it is expected
to continue doing this, and provide these additional field staff. At Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung, production credit requirements would reach some Rp 110 million
per year at full project development. Assurances were obtained that GOI
would take the necessary steps to ensure that adequate credit and agricultural
inputs (including fertilizers, agricultural chemicals and certified seed)
are made available at the village level in both project areas, and to
issue land certificates to the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung settlers, which would
enable them to obtain credit from banks in the project area.
5.06      The extension service, in cooperation with the Provincial Irriga-
tion Services and the Ministry of Home Affairs, would form farmer groups
(water user associations) for extension, production planning, water manage-
ment, and tertiary and quaternary unit construction in each tertiary unit.
The quaternary unit, some 20 to 40 farmers, would be the group's basic unit.
As they would be vital in synchronizing crop calendars and water supplies,
assurances were obtained from GOI that a water-user association would be
formed for each tertiary unit in the project areas to participate in the
unit's construction and to take over its operation and maintenance after
project completion.
Monitoring Benefits
5.07      Benefits accruing from the project works executed in the SEDEKU
and Sungai Dareh-Sitiung areas, together with related social aspects, would
be monitored in accordance with the monitoring system set up under Loan
1100-IND (Irrigation Project VI appraisal report). Funds to carry out this
work would be provided under a subsequent Bank-assisted project.
Operation and Maintenance
5.08      During construction, PROSIDA would be responsible for operating and
maintaining the irrigation and drainage works in the SEDEKU subproject. It
would continue to operate and maintain the works during the first year after
project completion to ensure that all defects are corrected and needed
repairs are made before the systems are formally turned over to the Central



- 20 -
project completion to ensure that all defects are corrected and needed
repairs are made before the systems are formally turneu over to the Central
Java Provincial Irrigation Service. Thereafter, the Provincial Irrigation
Service would operate and maintain the primary and secondary irrigation and
internal drainage systems and inspection roads a:Long the irrigation canals;
the DGWRD's Directorate of Rivers, the main drainage channelr; and the
Kabupatens (Districts), the district and village roads in the project area.
Water-user associations on tertiary system- of about 150 ha each would
operate and maintain these systems, using funds (lerived from the collection
of 40-50 Kg of paddy from all beneficiaries to meet the full O&M costs. This
is currently being done on a number of pilot tert:iary units and, in nearly
all cases, the systems are being adequately maintained.
5.09      DOI would be responsible for O&M of Stage I (3,500 ha) of the
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung system. It would continue t:o operate and maintain the
system until irrigation development on the entire service area (20,000 ha) is
completed. The entire system would eventually be turned over to the West
Sumatera Provincial Irrigation Service, who would assume responsibility for
O&M thereafter.
5.10      Although there have been some improvemetnts in O&M services in the
completed and ongoing Bank-assisted irrigation projects in Indonesia, there
is still a need for more trained staff, as well as an increase in budgetary
allocations. This fiscal year's per hectare allocations for rehabilitated
and unrehabilitated systems, which were established jointly by GOI and the
Bank, are about 30% higher than last year's levels. The increase in O&M
funding is reflected in the ongoing projects' maintenance programs that were
reviewed by the Bank's supervision missions in August and November 1976.
Despite the commitment of substantially higher levels of O&M funds, however,
the major constraint to the improvement of O&M services is the untimeliness
of fund releases for this purpose. Last year, significant fund releases to
most subprojects were not made until the second semester of the fiscal year
(rainy season), when little maintenance outside urgent repairs could be done.
The subprojects obtained permission to use the carry-over funds during the
first quarter of this fiscal year to meet operating expenses and carry out
needed repairs, and due to delays in the signing of the DGWRD budget, the
subprojects did not start operating with funds released from the current
budget until August 1976. Because total releases of FY76/77 funds as of
September 30, 1976 amounted to only 5-8% of the subprojects' budgets, however,
no appreciable system-wide maintenance could be done although most systems
had been out of service and ready for repairs for some time. To enable the
subprojects to operate efficiently and carry out timely and effective system-
wide maintenance in the dry season, GOI has agreed to allocate to the PROSIDA,
Jatiluhur and SEDEKU systems in FY77/78, O&M funds totaling about Rp 3,350
million (Annex 9, Table 2) for about 783,000 ha of rehabilitated systems
(Rp 2,900 million); 90,000 ha to be rehabilitated in FY77/78 (Rp 120 million);
and about 240,000 to be rehabilitated in the projects' remaining construction
period (Rp 330 million). Although the above O&M funds are only 10% higher
than FY76/77 levels, a substantial improvement in O&M services would be
realized if they are released in a timely manner and additional qualified
O&M personnel are employed to ensure that the available funds would be effec-
tively utilized. Therefore, assurances were obtained from the Government
that: (a) adequate O&M funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation and actual



- 21 -
needs, would be allocated in future years for all Bank-assisted irrigation
systems; (b) GOI would take the necessary steps to ensure that at least half
of the budgeted O&M funds would be released to the subprojects by August 15
of each year, and the balance, in equal quarterly installments until the
funds are fully released; (c) to upgrade the standard of O&M services and
to effectively utilize the available funds, GOI would progressively increase
the number of qualified O&M personnel in the Bank-assisted projects until the
additional numbers to be established by GOI in consultation with the Bank are
employed; (d) GOI would inform the Bank by December 31 of each year of the
proposed number of O&M personnel and per hectare O&M budget for each subpro-
ject; and (e) by June 1 of each following year, it would submit the approved
O&M budget for each subproject and by October 1, the staffing provisions.
Cost and Rent Recovery
5.11      Irrigators in Indonesia pay a land tax (IPEDA), and, depending on
the intensity of on-farm irrigation development, water charges for the opera-
tion and maintenance of the irrigation system below the secondary turn-out.
IPEDA is collected by village heads, and turned over to local and provincial
administrations for use in public services. However, the increase in IPEDA
caused by the project can be considered a direct project tax which contri-
butes towards the operation and maintenance, plus capital repayments, on the
main irrigation system. Since IPEDA is assessed as a percentage of the value
of production, the amounts collected would increase as crop yields rise in
response to the project. A GOI interministerial committee has recommended
that part of this increase in IPEDA should be used to cover annual operating
and maintenance costs, and recover a portion of the capital costs, of the
irrigation rehabilitation or construction works. As a result of a Government
decision to provide special allocations under its local infrastructure
development program (INPRES) on the basis of IPEDA collection performance,
IPEDA collection rates have improved markedly. Present and expected future
levels of IPEDA and water charge rates in the two project areas are as
follows (in 1977 prices):
SEDEKU                  Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
With /a                         With
Present  Project  Increment    Present  project  Increment
------------------------ (Rp '000) -----------------------
IPEDA                 3.4      10          6.6          1       12         11
Water charges         0          3.9       3.9          0        3.9        3.9
Total              3.4      13.9       10.5          1       15.9       14.9
Cost recovery (%)              19                               10
Rent recovery (%)            38-98                              91
/a The with project condition refers to full agricultural development in
1986. In future without the project, the IPEDA and water charges are
assumed to remain at the present levels in 1977 prices.



- 22 -
5.12      Water user groups at the tertiary canal level in Indonesia have
traditionally contributed a portion of their crop to the water master (ulu-
ulu), or he has received the use of an area of vi:Llage rice land, in payment
for his services. As tertiary and quaternary canal and drain development
has occurred under Bank-assisted irrigation projects, the irrigators have
increased their contributions to completely cover all operation and mainte-
nance costs for the tertiary/quaternary unit. At SEDEKU, where tertiary and
quaternary canals and drains would be constructed on 17,000 ha under the
project, the average water charge would be Rp 3,900/ha.  The same charge
would be levelled at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung.
5.13      Assurances were obtained that GOI, in accordance with its laws
and regulations, would collect the adjusted IPEDA based on the increased
productivity of all irrigated land served by the systems rehabilitated and
constructed under the project; the amounts to be collected would be sufficient
to ensure sound O&M practices and to recover a reasonable portion of the
capital costs during the project's useful life, taking into account farmers'
incentives and capability to pay; and it would submit to the Bank for review
every two years, the IPEDA rates collected for dififerent land classes.
5.14      In determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of
project charges to benefits under the project, cost and rent recovery indices
have been calculated (Annex 14). The cost recovery indices are 19% for
SEDEKU and 10% for Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. Rent recovery indices were calcu-
lated for 0.5 and 1.5 ha farms at SEDEKU, and a 1.0 ha farm at Sungai Dareh-
Sitiung. They indicated that at SEDEKU owner-operators would pay from 68% to
98% of their project rent in incremental project charges, and sharecroppers
from 38% to 62%; and at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung owner-operators would pay 91%.
5.15      The project charges are considered satisfactory in both areas.  Even
though the rent recovery indices are low, no increases in project charges are
proposed as some 90% of the SEDEKU project area farm families at present have
per capita incomes below the absolute poverty level of US$95 (1975 prices).
At full project development, some 70% of all farm families per capita incomes
would still be below this figure. Besides paying a substantial total land
tax (Rp 10,000 (US$24)/ha), irrigators would pay at least 10% of their gross
value of production in village taxes (Annex 14, Table 1).  As well, they
would contribute tc the social life and welfare of' the village through
religious taxes and compulsory feasts. At Sungai Dareh-Sitiung most farmers
would be transmigrants who intially would have to develop their land for
paddy production. Moderate project charges would assist farmers' cash flows
during the early development period, and encourage full development of the
area.
6. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      The project would increase agricultural production through more
intensive cropping, higher yields, and the development of new irrigated
crop land. At SEDEKU the frequency of flooding on the 9,000 ha now flooded
annually would be reduced to once in five years, while on the 21,000 ha now



- 23 -
flooded every two to five years the frequency would be reduced to less than
once in five. The reduced flooding would increase yields and shorten the
wet-season cropping period for paddy and thus allow increased planting of
dry-season paddy. This, plus a more efficient irrigation distribution system
would increase the annual cropping intensity from 122% to 135%. At Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung 1,500 ha of rainfed and 2,000 ha of unused land would be
developed for irrigation. The cropping intensity would be 200%. Better
water control and distribution at SEKEDU, new irrigation facilities at Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung, plus a strengthened and improved extension service and expanded
credit facilities at both areas would encourage farmers to plant high-yielding
rice varieties, and increase the use of fertilizer and crop protection chemi-
cals. As a result, paddy yields at full development would average 4.0 ton/ha
on the 9,000 ha and 4.3 ton/ha on the 21,000 ha in the wet season, and 4.3
ton/ha over all the area in the dry season at SEDEKU; and 3.7 ton/ha in the
wet and dry seasons at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. Soybean yields would average
0.7 ton/ha at SEDEKU. Farmers would achieve these yields five years after the
establishment of adequate and reliable irrigation. At full development, about
six years after completion of project works, annual paddy production would
reach 152,000 tons compared to 96,000 tons at present in SEDEKU; and 26,000
tons compared to 2,400 tons at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. Annual soybean production
would reach 3,000 tons compared to 2,000 at present in SEDEKU. Annex 2 gives
details of present and future crop yields and production.
Market Prospects
6.02      Self-sufficiency in rice is a major government goal.  Indonesian
rice production has been unable to satisfy demand for many decades. Since
1968, imports have ranged between 0.5 and 1.6 million tons. According to
government estimates of future demands, 0.6 million tons of imported rice
would be needed in 1978, and substantial imports would continue to be
required in subsequent years. Thus, no difficulties are foreseen in
marketing the additional paddy from the project areas. Much of the incre-
mental production from SEDEKU and Sungai Dareh-Sitiung would be consumed at
the farm level, and the balance would be marketed in the Semarang and Jakarta
areas respectively. Palawija crop production at SEDEKU would be marketed
locally.
Prices
6.03      For both the farm budget and economic analysis, farm inputs and
outputs have been valued in end-1977 prices. For rice, soybean and
fertilizers, these prices were derived from the Bank's Commodity Division's
forecasts for world market prices, and adjusted for transportation costs.
Only an estimated 10% of rice production from the project areas would be
milled into high-grade rice (5% brokens); 60% would be medium-grade (25-35%
brokens); and 30% would be low grade (42% brokens). Using this quality mix
and the world market price forecasts, the equivalent economic farm-gate price
for paddy would rise from US$147/ton in 1977 to US$191/ton in 1985 (in terms
of end-1977 constant dollars) in the SEDEKU project area. Historically,
the Government has followed a policy of keeping consumer food prices low
by selling imported rice below its cost and keeping domestic floor prices
low. To mitigate the effect of this policy on farm income, GOI has simul-
taneously subsidized fertilizer and pesticide. In the last two years,



- 24 -
however, GOI has substantially raised domestic paddy prices to encourage rice
production. This change in policy, combined with the fall of world prices
from the record levels of 1973-74, has brought farm-gate prices fairly close
to world levels. Thus, the floor price for paddy is now Rp 70/kg, as compared
with an imputed economic price of Rp 76/kg. Although with some fluctuations,
GOI has similarly gradually reduced the subsidies for fertilizers. GOI is
expected to continue its efforts to align domestic and world market prices,
and consequently at full development, economic and financial prices for
inputs and outputs are assumed to coincide at the Bank's forecasted world
market prices. Annex 10 gives similar details of the rice price at Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung.
Farm Income
6.04      For farm income analysis, farm models have been prepared for two
typical farm sizes (0.5 ha and 1.5 ha) at SEDEKU, and one farm size (1.0 ha)
at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. The SEDEKU models include farms in the area flooded
annually, and areas flooded every two to five years, as well as for owner-
operators and sharecroppers. Land use and cropping patterns for the present
condition broadly reflect averages for cultivated lands in the project areas.
The families who would occupy the newly developed land at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
are assumed to be earning their present incomes either from farms or from
salaries. The analysis' results are summarized below and shown in further
detail in Annex 11.
6.05      As shown in the table, present net crop income for sharecroppers
and owner-operators varies from Rp 20,000 to Rp 265,000 at SEDEKU. Similarly,
at full development net crop income would vary from Rp 70,000 to Rp 410,000.
Even allowing for the higher family farm labor and management input and the
consequent reduction in off-farm earnings, the projected farm incomes are
adequate to ensure that the farmers would have sufficient financial incentive
to adopt the recommended cropping pattern and farm inputs.
6.06      Virtually all farm families in both project areas have per capita
incomes at or below the absolute poverty level of US$95 (in end-1975 prices).
After completion of the project, with an estimated five persons per family
and one family per farm (these assumptions are probably on the low side,
especially for the larger farms which often support more than one family),
per capita farm incomes would average between US$60 and US$200. All Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung farmers, and about 30% of SEDEKU farmers, would then have per
capita incomes above the absolute poverty level.
6.07      No reliable income data are available for the landless laborers
who live in the project areas. However, assuming two full-time workers per
family; an average wage rate of Rp 150/day; and 200 work days/year/worker,
the annual income of a landless family can be no more than Rp 60,000 or
US$145. Since employment opportunities are limited, many families probably
earn less. Benefits to accrue to landless laborers under the project are
discussed in para. 7.01.



Farm Size                     Crop Income    Off-Farm Income               Farm Income /a
(ha)         Tenure      Present  Future  Present  Future  Present  Future  Present  Future
------       (Rp '000)-----------  ---(Rp '000)---  -----(US$)-----
SEDEKU
0.5 /b   Owner-Operator      45       130      50        45       95       175      230      420
Sharecropper        20        70     50        45        70      115      170      280
1.5 /b   Owner-Operator    120        375      20        15      140       390      340      940
Sharecropper        60       195     20        15        80      210      190      510
0.5 /c   Owner-Operator      85       140      50        45      135       185      330      450                    1
Sharecropper        45        75     50        45        95      125      230      300                    I
1.5 /c   Owner-Operator    265        410      20       15       285       425      690   1,020
Sharecropper       125       210     20        15       145      225      350      540
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
1.0      Owner-Operator      -        370        -      30       137 /d   400       330      960
/a  Rounded to nearest Rp 5,000 and US$10
/b  Farms on the 9,000 ha which are presently flooded annually, and with the project would be
flooded one in five years.
/c Farms on the 21,000 ha which are presently flooded every two to five years, and with the
project would be flooded less than once in five years.
/d At present families who would occupy the newly developed irrigated land are assumed to
be earning i.icome from farms or from salaries.



- 26 -
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICAT ION ANDL O TSKS
7.01      By providing improved water contI i                            a ge,  us
new irrigation development on 3,500 ha, the proposed project would increase
crop yields and production on a total 33,500' ha at SEPENJ and Sun$gai Dareh-
Sitiung.  It would directly benefit some 64,000 f,arm families or nearly
350,000 people; and through the provision of addil:onal em3layment oppor-
tunities, would indirectly benefit some 40,000 landless laborers families.
Through increased crop production, annual cropping  nt-v:--iry and net culti-
vable area, the project would create a demand for an e--'- tiC nal 2D6 million
man-days of farm labor per year, or about 10,9G00a0              T `E a,sroved
drainage at SEDEKU would reduce flood damage to  -,hp f   al:tough not
included in the economic benefits, it would also reduc-  -.           s siderable
flood damage to public and private structures suchn as,           diges and
houses.
7.02      The economic rate of return would be 18% fo  -t.ls SETEKU project and
15% for Sungai Dareh-Sitiung, in both cases usi.  a               e evaluation
period; full project benefits being attainied six years after completion of
construction; farm-gate prices for rice, soybean, and fertilizars based on
the Bank's commodity price forecasts for 1985 expressed in December 1977
constant prices; a shadow foreign exchange rate; and a seasona"LI-y r,;S>ariable
shadow wage rate for unskilled labor (Annex 12). Since clearing of homesites,
construction of housing and village infrastructure and moving of the first
2,000 families from Java to the area have been conrpleted3 these costs were
excluded, while GOI's assistance to settlers duriyng the first year (US$310/
settler) were included in the economic analysis of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
project.
7.03      The rates of return for both areas ar_ sl-ge;y seusitive to cost
overruns and moderately sensitive to delays in the realizatio-n- of project
benefits, which further highlight the crucial role of sepporting agricultural
services.  However, even if the projects shoi^ld s!.tffer from both a 20% cost
overrun and a two-year delay in the realization of benefits, the economic
rate of return would still be about 10% in Sungai Dareh-Sitlung and 13% in
SEDEKU. On the other hand, if project benefits turn out to be 20% higher
than forecast because of higher commodity prices, the rate of return would be
21% for SEDEKU and 17% for Sungal Dareh-SItiun g.
7.04      At full agricultural development, the project would result in rice
import savings of US$25.0 million annually at the projected world market
price cif Semarang and Jakarta (Annex 10).  4fter deducting the incremental
cost of imported fertilizers, chemicals, fuel and >other farm inlouts, annual
net foreign exchange savings would amount to about US$17.0 milliori.
7.05      No unusual engineering managemenit or organizational -problems are
expected in the implementation of the project. R.apid inflation over the last
several years led to sizeable cost overruns on projects initiated in the
early 1970s. Inflation is now more under control. and larger provisions for
price increases have been made for this project f-2d other projects recently
financed by the Bank. Physical contingencies allowed are 25% for rehabilita-
tion and construction works, and 10% for miscellaneous services. Considering
the level of investigations made for the project, these would be adequate.
As agricultural supporting services are not presently available in the Sungai



- 27 -
Dareh-Sitiung project area, there is a risk that the projected crop yields
would not be obtained unless these services are introduced in adequate
amounts and in a timely manner.
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on
the following points:
(a) consultants acceptable to the Bank would be engaged by December 31,
1977 on terms and conditions approved by the Bank (para 4.03);
(b) except for tertiary canals and structures, the project works would
be divided into a number of suitable contracts (minimum size
US$125,000) that would enable large local contracting firms and
joint ventures of smaller contractors to bid within the categories
or classes for which Government regulations require them to be
prequalified; to minimize late construction starts early in the dry
season, invitations to bid for such contracts would be issued
as bid documents are completed, and bids would be received and
processed without waiting for the project implementation budget
(DIP) to be signed, but contract award and signing would be done
after the DIP is approved; and price escalation clauses, which are
not normally provided in local civil works contracts, would be
included in contracts extending beyond one year (para 4.22);
(c) PROSIDA and DOI would maintain separate accounts for the project;
auditors acceptable to the Bank would be engaged to audit these
accounts; and audited financial statements, together with the
auditor's comments and opinion on the certificates of expenditure
for force account works, would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year (para 4.24);
(d) the PROSIDA and DOI subproject offices involved in project implemen-
tation would be adequately staffed, and GOI would consult with the
Bank before appointing a replacement for the General Manager of
PROSIDA or the Director of Irrigation (para 5.02);
(e) GOI would take the necessary steps to ensure that adequate credit
and agricultural inputs (including fertilizers, agricultural chemi-
cals and certified seed) are made available at the village level in
both project areas, and to issue land certificates to the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung settlers, which would enable them to obtain credit
from banks in the project area (para. 5.05);
(f) a water-user association would be formed for each tertiary unit in
the project areas to participate in the unit's construction and to
take over its operation and maintenance upon completion of the
project (para. 5.06);



- 28 -
(g)  adequate and timely O&M funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation
and actual needs, would be allocated to all Bank-assisted irrigation
systems in future years; GOI would take the necessary steps to
ensure that at least half of the budgeted O&M funds would be
released to the subprojects by August 15 of each year and the
balance, in equal quarterly installments until the funds are fully
released; to upgrade the standard of Cl&M services and to effectively
utilize the available funds, it would progressively increase the
number of qualified O&M personnel in the Bank-assisted projects
until the additional numbers to be established by GOI in consulta-
tion with the Bank are employed; it would inform the Bank by
December 31 of each year of the proposed number of O&M personnel
and per hectare O&M budget for each subproject; and by June 1 of
each following year, it would submit the approved O&M budget for
each subproject and by October 1, the staffing provisions (para.
5.10); and
(h)  GOI, in accordance with its laws and regulations, would collect the
adjusted IPEDA based on the increased productivity of all irrigated
land served by the systems rehabilitated and constructed under the
project; the amounts to be collected would be sufficient to ensure
sound O&M practices and to recover a reasonable portion of the
capital costs during the project's useful life, taking into account
farmers' incentives and capability to pay; and it would submit to
the Bank for review every two years, the IPEDA rates established
and collected for different land classes (para. 5.13).
8.02      The project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$35 million, with
a 20-year maturity and a grace period of 4-1/2 years. The Borrower would be
the Government of Indonesia.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
ClimatoloRical Data
Total
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   June   July    Aug.  Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.  or mean
SEDEKU Area
Semarang /a
Mean temperature  (OC)        26.2   26.1   26.8   27.6   27.9   27.6   27.1   27.2   27.2   28.1  27.9    27.0   27.2
Relative humidity (%)          84      85      83     79      77      74    73       72      70      71      75      80       77
Rainfall            (mm)      333    311    252    231    154    107    84           72      99      157   224    226   2,250
Wind velocity       (m/S)       4       4       4    3.5    3.5    3.5        4       4       3.5      4      4    3.5         4
Sungai Dareh Area
Sungai Dareh /b
Rainfall            (mm)      254    260    243    389    197    134    105    130    133    166   325    292   2,628
Padang /c
Mean temperature  (OC)        25.9   25.8   26.0   26.1   26.3   25.9   25.7   25.6   25.4   25.6  25.7   25.7   25.8
Relative humidity (%)          81      82      83      84     83      83      83      82      84      82    82       83      83
Wind velocity       (m/s)       3       4       3       3       3       3       3.      3       4       3     4       3       3
/a  Data is mean for period 1956-65.
/b  Data is mean for period 1964-73.
/c  Data is mean for period 1972-75.
mx
g- Bi-



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
Present Cropping Pattern and Yields
1.        SEDEKU.  Situated in the East Semarang plain on the north coast of
Central Java, the SEDEKU project area covers 30,000 ha. All the area is
affected by floods with approximately 9,000 ha being flooded annually,
and the remaining 21,000 ha every two to five years. Irrigation systems
cover the entire 30,000 ha, of which some 70% have been rehabilitated by the
GOI from its own funds, or with Bank Group assistance (Credit 127-IND).
During the wet season, paddy is irrigated on 30,000 ha, and in the dry season
on 2,600 ha. Additionally, some 4,000 ha of secondary crops are partially
irrigated during the dry season, giving an overall annual cropping intensity
of 122%. Soybeans is the major secondary crop, and in this report have been
used to represent all secondary crops. Dry-season paddy is only irrigated on
the area flooded every two to five years (21,000 ha). Table I shows the
cropping patterns and production estimates at present and in future without
the project.
2.        Wet-season rice is grown between November and June.  Depending on
the start of the northwest monsoon, farmers usually transplant between
November and the end of January. Because of flooding during December to
February, farmers may have to replant considerable portions of their crops.
They harvest over some 12 weeks, April through June. Farmers grow dry-season
paddy between April and October, transplanting in April-June and harvesting
in August-October. All rice is transplanted from field nurseries onto
previously puddled land. Soybeans are grown from late April to mid-October.
Depending on water supplies, these crops may receive from two to four irri-
gations. Most soybean crops, however, suffer moisture stress and are mainly
dependent on rainfall and residual subsoil moisture from the preceding crop.
3.        Farmers plant only local rice varieties on the annually flooded
area (9,000 ha). They plant 40% HYV rice on the area flooded every two to
five years (21,000 ha) in the wet season, and 50% in the dry season. Average
wet-season paddy yields 1.9 ton/ha on the 9,000 ha and 3.3 ton/ha on the
21,000 ha; dry-season paddy 3.5 ton/ha and soybeans 0.5 ton/ha on the
21,000 ha. The flooding not only reduces crop yi(elds and discourages farmers
from using credit and crop inputs (HYVs, fertilizer and pesticide), it also
increases crop production costs, damages irrigation facilities, and reduces
the area farmers can plant to irrigated dry-season crops.
4.        Sungai Dareh-Sitiung.  More than half of the proposed 3,500 ha
irrigation service area is covered with secondary forest, bush and coarse
grass. Farmers grow rainfed paddy on 1,500 ha during the wet season. As
they use local varieties and practically no ferti:Lizer or pesticides, yields
average 1.6 ton/ha. At present, farmers do not grow any dry-season crops.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Future Cropping Patterns
5.        SEDEKU.  Without the project, improved and expanded extension ser-
vices and increased use of agricultural inputs would marginally increase
paddy yields on the rehabilitated area of the lesser flooded portion
(21,000 ha). On this area, wet-season paddy would average 3.4 ton/ha and
dry-season paddy 3.6 ton/ha. All other yields would remain as now. The
annual cropping intensity would not increase.
6.        Table 1 shows the expected changes in cropping pattern and inten-
sity with the project. Improved drainage would reduce flooding on the
annually flooded area to once in five years, and on the area flooded every
two to five years to less than once in five years. This would shorten the
wet-season cropping period, which in turn would allow farmers to increase
their dry-season irrigated paddy area from 2,600 ha to 6,000 ha, and their
soybeans from 4,000 ha to 4,500 ha. The annual overall cropping intensity
would rise from 122% to 135%.
7.        Sungai Dareh-Sitiung.  Without the project, varietal improvement
and some use of pesticides would increase the wet-season paddy yield to
1.8 ton/ha. Cropping intensity would not increase. With the project, the
entire 3,500 ha would be irrigated. Farmers would irrigate paddy crops
during both the wet and dry seasons, with an overall 200% annual cropping
intensity (Table 1).
Future Yields
8.        With good water management, control and distribution, a strength-
ened and improved extension service, and adequate credit and input supplies,
the estimated future crop yields would average at SEDEKU: wet-season paddy,
4.0 ton/ha on area flooded one in five years (9,000 ha); 4.3 ton/ha on
area flooded less than one in five years (21,000 ha); and over all the area,
dry-season paddy, 4.0 ton/ha; and soybeans 0.7 ton/ha. At Sungai Dareh-
Sitiung, wet- and dry-season paddy would average 3.7 ton/ha. The projected
yields would be achieved five years after the introduction of water or
completion of drainage or rehabilitation works.
9.        The improved yields would be assisted by the use of HYV rice vari-
eties throughout all areas, certified seed, heavier fertilizer and crop pro-
tection inputs. Rice HYVs would spread to 85% of the wet-season, and 100%
of the dry-season rice areas. The introduction of the National Food Crop
Extension Project to the project areas would play a key role in the organi-
zation of farmer groups for extension, crop production, and water management.
The forming of these groups would help in synchronizing cropping patterns
and calendars with projected water deliveries, increasing contact between
individual farmers and government programs, and ensuring better use of
resources and inputs available to each farmer.
Development Constraints
10.       The most important possible constraints to the project's success
are discussed briefly.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
II.       Agricultural inputs.  Organized   ricultural inputs (BIMAS program,
credit, seed, fertilizer and pesticides) are not yet available at Sungai
Dareh. To achieve the projected crop yields, GOI would have to introduce
these services to the project area. Transmigrants to the area would require
the credit facilities normally made available to government-sponsored trans-
migrants. This would enable them to prepare their land for paddy production,
purchase inputs, and subsist until their first successful harvest. Annex 3
discusses the agricultural services which would be introduced to the project
area.
12.       Crop protection.  Major rice pests existing in the project areas
are brown plant hopper, stemborer, leptocoriza and rats. The introduction
of resistant rice varieties and chemicals would contain these diseases.
However, pest control in both areas is inadequat:e and should be strictly
supervised by the agricultural services.
13.       Harvesting, drying and storage.  At SEDEKU farmers harvest rice
using small knives (ani-ani) or, occasionally, sickles. They thresh the crop
by treading on the panicles or beating them on EL threshing floor. Paddy is
sun-dried on mats in the house yard or on the roadside. Lack of proper con-
crete drying floors makes drying of the wet-season crop difficult and losses
from rainfall can be considerable. Although the Government has initiated
a program to provide drying floors at farmer cooperatives (BUUD/KUDs), more
drying floors are required. Farmers store bagged paddy or dry stalk paddy
in their houses or on racks in small outbuildings until it is sold or con-
sumed. This storage is not always vermin proof and cannot readily be fumi-
gated to control insects. Storage losses are around 5-8% while losses during
harvest, drying and storage could be as high as 15-20%.
14.       Processing.  To process the increased production in both project
areas, additional rice milling capacity would be required. Most mills in
the SEDEKU area are currently operating at less than full capacity, but with
the project their capacity would have to be expanded. At present there are
only two rice mills in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area, and these would be
insufficient to handle the incremental paddy production with the project.
15.       Transport.  Part of the incremental rice and soybean production in
the project areas is expected to be sold outside of the region. This would
require improvement of existing transport facilities. Away from the main
highway, roads in the SEDEKU area are frequently impassable during the wet
season, while secondary roads are virtually nonexistent in the Sungai Dareh-
Sitiung area.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Summary of Cropping Patterns and Production
Present                         Future Without Project                Future With Project (1986)
Area       Yield       Production       Area       Yield.       Production       Area       Yield        Production
(ha)      (ton/ha)       (tons)         (ha)      (too/ha)         (tons)        (ha)      (ton/ha)         (tons)
SEDEKU
Wet season
Paddy - area A /a       9,000       1.9           17,100         9,000      1.9             17,100       9,000       4.0 /e          36,000
Paddy - area B Lb    21,000         3.3 /c        69,300        21,000      3.4 /d          71,400      21,000       4.3 /f          90.300
Subtotal        30,000                     86,400        30,000                      88,500       30,000                     126,300
Dry season
Paddy -area A                -       -                  -            -       -                   -
Paddy - area B          2,600       3.5 /g         9,100         2,600      3.6 /h           9,360    }  6,000       4.3 /f          25,800
Soybean                 4,000      0.5             2,000         4,000      0.5              2,000       4.500       0.7              3.150
Subtotal          6,600                     11,100        6,600                      11,360       10,500                      28,950
Total            36,600                     97,500       36,600                      99,860       40,500                     155,250
Cropping intensity         122%                                    122%                                     135%
Sungai Dareh
Wet season
Rainfed paddy           1,500       1.6            2,400         1,500      1.8              2,700            -
Irrigated paddy              -       -                  -            -       -                  -         3.500      3.7             12,950
Subtotal          1,500                      2,400        1,500                       2,700        3,500                       12,950
Dry season
Irrigated paddy              -       -                  -      -         -                        -       3,500      3.7             12,950
Total             1,500                      2,400        1,500                        2,700       7,000                       25,900
Cropping intenaity         100%                                    100%                                     200%
/a  "Present" and "future without" situation:  area susceptible to annual flooding.
"Future with project" situation:  area susceptible to one-in-five year flood.
/b  "Present" and "future without" situation:  area susceptible to flooding every two to five years.
"Future with proiect" situation:  area susceptible to floods greater than the one-in-five year flood.
/c  Composite yield:  70% of the area rehabilitated with a yield of 3.5 ton/ha; 30% of the area nonrehabilitated with a yield
of 2.7 ton/ha.
Composite yield:  70% of the area rehabilitated with a yield of 3.7 ton/ha; 30% of the area nonrehabilitated with a yield
of 2.7 ton/ha.
/e  Composite yield:  55% of the area equipped with tertiary facilities with a yield of 4.2 ton/ha; 45% of the area without
tertiary facilities with a yield of 3.7 ton/ha.
/f  Composite yield:  55% of the area equipped with tertiary facilities with a yield of 4.5 ton/ha; 45% of the area without
tertiary facilities with a yield of 4.0 ton/ha.
/R  Composite yield:  70% of the area rehabilitated with a yield of 3.9 ton/ha; 30% of the area nonrehabilitated with a yield
of 2.5 ton/ha.
/h  Composite yield:  70% of the area rehabilitated with a yield of 4.0 ton/ha; 30% of the area nonrehabilitated with a yield
of 2.5 ton/ha.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Agricultural Supporting Services
OraLiization
1.        Previous irrigation project appraisal reports, and the Irrigation
Program Survey report (No. 705-IND) have described the organization of
agricultural supporting services in Java. In addition, the National Food
Crops Extension Project report (No. 1105a-IND) describes in detail the BIMAS
(farm production credit and inputs) program, and the revised agricultural
extension service, which would ultimately be introduced to the project areas.
This annex, thus, only briefly describes the programs and supporting services
available to farmers.
2.        The most important Government organizations and programs which
support farmers in agriculture include the following.
(a)  The Directorate General of Water Resources Department (DGWRD) -
contains agencies implementing water resource development projects
and, through the Provincial Irrigation Services, operates irrigation
systems to the secondary canal turnout.
(b)  The Directorate General of Food Crop Agriculture (DGFC) - within
the Ministry of Agriculture, plans and executes food crop production
and plant protection services.
(c)  The Directorate General of Cooperatives (DGC) - operates farmer
cooperatives (BUUD/KUDs).
(d) Bank Raykat Indonesia (BRI) - provides credit to farmers and
finances the BIMAS program which provides farm input packages and
credit programs.
(e) BULOG/DOLOG - acts as Government's rice/paddy procurement agency.
(f) Agency for Research and Development (ARD) - within the Ministry of
Agriculture, carries out agricultural research and development
pr -ams.
(g)  The Mir7stry of Home Affairs (MEA) - provides the provincial and
1Qcal ac-inistrative services.
3.        All agenc ?s have a Central Directorate in Jakarta, whi-:h plans,
supervises, provides technical assistance and finances programs on a national
basis.  Each --->  ib represented at the provincial, and district (kabupatan)



ANNEX 3
Page 2
levels. Staff assigned to the provinces are administratively responsible to
local government, that is the Governor (province) and the Bupati (district),
who coordinate the programs and activities of the agencies within their area
of command, and provide basic salaries and operating expenses.
Credit and BIMAS Program
4.        Farmers obtain credit from six main sources:  BRI, BUUD/KUD,
village cooperatives (Lumbung Desa), landlords, merchants and relatives.
Under the BIMAS program, BRI is the main source of production credit.
For irrigated rice production, a farmer can obtain up to Rp 37,000/ha to
cover seed, fertilizer, insecticide, rodenticide, spraying, and cost-of-living
expenses. The loan is for seven months at 1%/month interest rate. To be
eligible for the loan, a farmer must not be more than two years overdue with
his earlier BIMAS repayments. It is estimated that approximately 30% of the
wet-season paddy in the SEDEKU project area is currently covered by
the BIMAS program. The coverage is relatively low due to the risk of flooding
and the problems of conducting new agricultural techniques under present
conditions. However, after project completion, it is expected that 75% of
the wet-season paddy area would be covered by the BIMAS program. While
BRI would be able to supply the credit required for the expansion of the
coverage, it would have to increase its field staff to avoid delays in
processing and issuing of BIMAS credits. There is at present no functioning
distribution system of farm inputs through the BIMAS program in the greater
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area. However, coverage is expected to reach at least
80% after completion of the project and introduction of the program.
5.        BRI also supplies farmers and BUUD/KUDs with some medium-term
credit (1-5 years) for purchases of draft and breeding cattle, pigs and
chickens, hullers, water pumps, grain storage and drying floors. However,
the volume is low, application procedures are complicated and repayment
terms restrictive. Most loans are for one to three years. A greater volume
is required, and over longer repayment periods, particularly for storage or
land development. The Bank is already assisting the BRI provide medium-term
credit under Credit 480-IND. Although its repayment terms are easier than
BRI's general repayment terms, it is restricted to a few provinces. A rural
credit project, currently being considered for financing, would provide
credit for up to a maximum of 15 years over 7 provinces.
Research
6.        Research for paddy and secondary crops is conducted at the Sukamandi
National Research Centers for Paddy and Secondary Crops and at a number of
field stations under the direction of the Agency for Research and Development.
Under the National Food Crops Extension Project (NFCE/Loan 1267-IND), sub-
ject matter specialists would conduct adaptive research at the district and
subdistrict level. At these research establishments, rice and secondary crops
foundation seed is produced, and rice varietal adoption and fertilizer trials
are conducted, together with new varietal adoption trials for secondary crops.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Extension
7.        Under the Bank-assisted National Food Crops Extension Project,
both project areas would receive substantial guidance and assistance.
Existing Rural Extension Centers would be improved1, and a large number would
be established. Lower-level extension workers (PPLs) would make contact
with farmers through about 20 key farmers and some 100-150 progressive
farmers. PPLs would be supervised by middle-level extension workers (PPMs)
and the head of their Extension Centers. Subject matter specialists would
support both PPLs and PPMs with technical advice and would assist in a
continuous training program. At present, the SEDEKU project area has only
11 field extension workers (PPLs) to service 100,000 farm families, an
average ratio of 1 PPL:9,100 farm families. Under the NCFE project, this
ratio would be reduced to 1:1,700.  Only very limited technical guidance and
supervision is currently available in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area.
Seed
8.        Approximately 1,380 tons of rice seed are used annually in the
SEDEKU area. This figure reflects substantial seed losses due to flooding
and frequent replanting. About 88% of the seed is obtained by retention from
the farmer's production and 12% from seed growers. In the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
area, practically all farmers use seed from their own production. Certified
paddy seed is produced by the National Seed Corporation at Sukamandi and is
distributed through BUUDs, KUDs and local kiosks at about doable the commer-
cial paddy price. Supplies of this seed are limited. Most districts have
one or more local seed farms which are run by district agricultural personnel.
At full development, farmers in the SEDEKU area would use about 1,140 tons of
rice seed per year. In the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area, total rice seed
requirements would amount to 210 tons per annum. If rice seed would be
renewed every five crop seasons, the estimated annual requirement of quality
rice seed would be 400 and 70 tons for the SEDEKU and Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
project areas respectively.
Fertilizer
9.        Generally, fertilizer is supplied under the BIMAS program and phys-
ically distributed through local BUUDs and KUDs.  Farmers in the SEDEKU
area currently apply some 4,940 tons of fertilizer to their rice and
secondary crops, of which 3,900 tons are urea and 1,040 tons are triple
superphosphate (TSP). Little fertilizer is used in the areas susceptible to
annual flooding. At full project development, some 9,100 tons of fertilizer
would be required for the rice and secondary crops annually, consisting of
7,200 tons of urea and 1,900 tons of TSP. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung project
would require 1,400 tons of urea and 900 tons of TSP at full development.
10.       Supplies of fertilizer are adequate in the SEDEKU area; however,
critical shortages occur due to transport problems and lack of storage within
villages. No fertilizer distribution system is currently in operation in the
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Farmers' Organizations
11.       BUUDs/KUDs.  BUUDs are precooperatives which convert to farm
cooperatives, or KUDs, when proven viable. The cooperatives distribute farm
inputs and provide such processing services as paddy drying and cleaning, in
addition to storage. BUUDs and KUDs act as agents of the Government's
rice/paddy procurement agency (BULOG/DOLOG) at the village level. Under the
project, the number of BUUDs/KUDs in both project areas would be increased to
a level at which there would be one cooperative per village unit.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Project Works
Semarang-Demak-Kudus (SEDEKU) Subproject
1.        The coastal plain of East Semarang in Central Java covers a gross
area of 45,000 ha, of which about 30,000 ha are served by the SEDEKU irriga-
tion system. This system consists of nine distinct small- to medium- scale
irrigation systems (Table 1), three of which were completely rehabilitated
with Bank Group assistance under Credit 127-IND. GOI completely rehabili-
tated four and partially rehabilitated two of the remaining six systems
from 1970 to 1976. Because of damage sustained from repeated floodings
(para. 3.01), however, some rehabilitated areas in those six systems would
require further repairs and improvement. Some 8,000 ha in those systems
would therefore be rehabilitated and improved under the proposed project by
repairing or reconstructing about 130 km of primary and secondary canals and
about 200 division, control and related structures, including some bridges,
and by constructing about 20 km of canal bank protection. In addition,
tertiary systems would be rehabilitated and constructed to PROSIDA standards
(Loan 1268-IND) on 17,000 ha of the 30,000 ha service area. Tertiary works
would include the rehabilitation and improvement of about 100 km of tertiary
canals, including about 300 structures, and the construction of about 1,200
km of tertiary and quaternary irrigation canals, 680 km of tertiary and
quaternary drains, and about 1,200 tertiary and quaternary canal structures.
2.        To minimize damage due to flooding in the SEDEKU area (para. 3.01),
two main flood control and drainage schemes /1 would be rehabilitated and
improved under the project. The components of the two schemes would be
sized according to the following criteria, which have been adopted by GOI
for this, and similar flood control and drainage projects in Java: (a)
internal drains would be designed to cope with the local runoff produced by
a 5-year storm without submerging the crops for more than 72 hours; and (b)
main drains would be sized to allow safe passage of a 50-year flood. The
required channel capacities would be met by enlarging the channel cross-
sections (desilting or excavation) and/or by raising their flood embankments.
The embankment heights and the level of protection to be provided by them
would be reviewed by the project consultants, and GOI, in consultation with
the Bank, may reduce their frequency of failure if it is shown that such
failure would pose a serious threat to the rural population. The channel
capacity of the Jragung River, one of the main rivers included in the
eastern flood control and drainage scheme, is based on projected flood
/1 These schemes are the Western Scheme, which drains the area between
the East Banjir canal and the west bank of the I)olok river, and the
Eastern Scheme, which drains the area between the east bank of the Dolok
river and the west bank of the Tuntang river.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
discharges after the construction of the proposed Jragung dam /1. Until the
dam is constructed, the Jragung river 50-year flood would exceed the design
flood by about 30%. In the event such a flood occurs, some portions of the
Jragung embankments may be breached or overtopped. The flood control and
drainage works would include: (a) excavation of about 110 km of new and
existing flood channels; (b) rehabilitation or reconstruction of about 200
km of flood embankments; (c) construction of about 0.5 km of river bank
protection; (d) construction and/or rehabilitation of about 20 flap and
automatically controlled flood and drainage gates; and (e) rehabilitation
or reconstruction of about 70 km of inspection and access roads.
3.        The excavation of new and existing channels, construction of new
flood embankments, and raising of existing embankments would require about
8.6 million cu m of earthwork, about 6.0 million cu m of which would be
carried out by hand labor. Only the excavation in water (about 2.6 million
cu m) too deep or too dangerous to be carried out efficiently by hand labor,
would be done by equipment.
4.        The Prauwvaart canal, which traverses the project area for most of
its width and acts as a major drainage and irrigation canal by intercepting
several minor streams and using the intercepted water to irrigate its 4,300 ha
command area, would be rehabilitated and upgraded by: (a) constructing a
masonry lining along its bank that is adjacent to the Semarang-Demak highway
over most of its length, to keep that bank from progressively eroding and
slipping; (b) desilting its invert to restore its original capacity; and (c)
rehabilitating or reconstructing its automatic control gates to ensure that
they would maintain a constant water level in the canal for water supply
purposes and open automatically to discharge surplus water to the sea
through downstream flood channels. All other canals would be unlined, except
where shown to be required.
5.        Control gates would be constructed at points where the internal
drains discharge into the main drains to ensure that, by closing them in the
dry season, fresh water would be trapped within the sytem for irrigation and
domestic consumption. In the wet season, they would be kept open to allow
unrestricted drainage to take place.
6.        Tertiary systems in the SEDEKU area would be upgraded or constructed
to the PROSIDA standards established under Loan 1268-IND. Tertiary canals
would deliver water to units of about 150 ha. Quaternary canals taking off
from the tertiaries would convey water to units of about 10-15 ha; below that
level, irrigation would be from field to field. Local consultants to be
engaged under the project (para. 4.03) would prepare the design and construc-
tion drawings. PROSIDA would layout the systems and construct the control
/1  A proposed storage dam for the dry-season irrigation of about 10,000 ha
of the SEDEKU system, hydropower generation and flood control. Feasi-
bility study has been completed by GOI with consultant assistance
(ECI) financed under bilateral aid from USAID. At GOI's request the dam
would be considered for financing under the future Irrigation XI project.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
and protective structures. Farmers would excavate t-ie tertiary and quarter-
nary canals under the supervision of PROSIDA, at daily wage rates equal to the
prevailing rates for work done under the INPRES Program.
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
7.        The proposed works for the 3,500 ha interim irrigation system in
the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area (para. 3.02) would include: Ca) construction
of a pumping station equipped with five mixed flow pumps with electric motor
drives, which would each be capable of delivering 1,100 1/sec against a head
of 29 m; (b) installation of a diesel electric generating plant equipped with
six 600 KVA generating sets, one of which would be a standby unit, for a
total installed capacity of 3,600 KVA; (c) construction of about 30 km of
primary and 35 km of secondary canals and about 100 control and related
structures; (d) construction of about 50 km of primary and secondary drainage
channels; (e) tertiary development on 3,500 ha consisting of the construction
of about 55 km of tertiary and subtertiary canals, 185 km of quaternary
canals, 140 km of tertiary and quaternary drains, and about 350 tertiary and
quaternary canal structures; (f) construction of about 75 km of inspection
and access roads; (g) installation of about 50 km of telecommunications and
related facilities; (h) construction of housing for O&M personnel totaling
about 650 sq m in floor area; and (i) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
8.        The principal source of water supply is the Batang Hari, a major
river having a minimum flow of about 80 cu m/sec. The ultimate gravity
system for the 20,000 ha would include a weir and intake on the Batang Hari,
which would be located about 7 km upstream of Kecamatan /1 Sungai Dareh;
about 105 km of primary canals; 155 km of secondary canals; and about 600
control and related structures. About seven years would be required to
complete the system. The pumping plant for the initial stage would be
dismantled after completion of the ultimate gravity system, for use in other
areas.
9.        To make the interim development compatible with the ultimate
system, the interim canals and structures would be sized for the initial
design discharge to obtain optimum hydraulic conditions, but: (a) for
reaches of the interim canals that would be incorporated into the ultimate
plan, sufficient right of way would be acquired for the ultimate plan; (b)
canal cross-sections to be adopted could readily be enlarged to provide the
ultimate capacity; and (c) interim structures to be constructed could be
enlarged to cope with the ultimate discharge by providing additional bays
with as little disruption of the flow as possible.
Studies and Investigations
10.       The DGWRD and DOI have requested Bank assistance in finalizing the
planning and investigations of nine small- to mtedium-sized irrigation proj-
ects located in Java, Sumatera and Sulawesi (Map 12632). Table 1 provides a
/1 Subdistrict.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
compilation of the projects, approximate size, provincial location, status
and preliminary cost estimates for development of feasibility reports and
for construction.
II.       The status of the nine projects varies from the planning to the
construction stages, but construction that has taken place is limited to
weirs and headworks and the initial reaches of the primary canals. The
standards and criteria that have been used in planning the works are those
of DOI and the associated Provincial public works authorities. Information
made available to the mission indicated that additional studies and inves-
tigations would be needed to provide a sound basis for evaluating project
costs and benefits. This portion of the project would provide assistance to
DOI for the review of existing designs and the completion of the feasibility
study for each project. Study standards and criteria would be adequate to
demonstrate engineering, agricultural and economic feasibility required for
Bank appraisal of the works.
12.       Three of the projects, Cilandak and Ciletuh, in West Java and
Wawotobi or other suitable sites in Sulawesi, are proposed resettlement areas
for the 15,000 families that would be displaced by the construction of the
Jatigede project./l Although 2,000 families from Jatigede could be relocated
at the two projects in West Java, the principal purpose of these projects
would be to provide resettlement opportunities for families presently located
in and adjacent to the respective projects. The proposed system in Sulawesi
would be capable of accommodating the remaining 13,000 families that would be
dislocated by the Jatigede project.
13.       Some of the proposed projects in Sumatera could be designed to pro-
vide resettlement opportunities for families from the general project areas
and from Java.
14.       There would be no conflict between the nine projects and other
governmental efforts under the Directorate of Transmigration to achieve
population dispersal. The projects are addressed solely to the construction
of facilities to provide dependable water supplies for the irrigation of
lands to be occupied by families resettled under any specific program.
15.       Present land use in all of the project areas is primarily for
rainfed agriculture, predominantly palawija crops, but with modest areas of
paddy production. It is anticipated that some of the defined project lands
could be provided with irrigation systems capable of supporting year-round
paddy production.
/1 A storage project for irrigation and hydropower generation on the
Cimanuk river in West java, which is being considered for Bank
financing.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
SEDEKU IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Status of Rehabilitation
Irrigation       Water Supply            Total Service  Rehabilitated           To be Rehabilitated Under the Project
System            Source                    Area          Area          Previously rehabilitated
but requiring further   Unrehabilitated  Total
repairs and improvement            Area         Area
Prauwvaart  /a  Prauwvaart Canal /b          4,300             4,300                  1,555                        -       1,555
Polder Batu /a  Dolok River                     470              470
Penggaron   /a  Penggaron River              4,590             4,590                  1,300                        -       1,300
Glapan Setu /a  Setu River                   1,545             1,545
Dolok        /a  Dolok River                 1,956             1,041                      -                      915         915
Jragung      /a  Jragung River               5,617             1,987                    600                   3,630        4,230
West Glapan /c  Tuntang River                8,140             8,140
Ketitang    /c  Tuntang River                   849              849
Guntur       /c  Bl River                    1,937             1,937
Total                                 29,404            24,859                  3,455                    4,545       8,000
/a  Partially or completely rehabilitated by GOI (1970-1976).
/b  Intercepts flows of several minor streams and acts as a drainage and irrigation canal.
/c Completely rehabilitated by PROSIDA under the Glapan-Sedadi subproject (Credit 127-IND).



ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Work Items, Quantities and Unit Prices
Quantity      Unit     Unit Price
(Rp)
I. SEDEKU Irrigation & Drainage System
Housing for O&M staff                      1,250       sq m          40,000
Inspection & access roads                     70      km        11,000,000
Headworks & weirs                              6       ea       63,500,000
Primary & secondary canals
Earthwork                           725,500       cu m              500
Masonry lining                      193,500       sq m            5,700
Canal structures                         200      ea         2,000,000
Drainage canals & structures
Earthwork                         7,870,000       cu m             525
Structures                                25      ea        25,000,000
Tertiary development                      17,000      ha             75,000
Telecommunication lines                      200      km            500,000
Land acquisition                             463      ha         1,350,000
II. Sungai Dareh Irrigation System
Preliminary works                          L.S.         -       70,000,000
Design office (Bandung)                    400         sq m          80,000
Field office                               400        sq m           80,000
Staff housing
Type A                               1,000         sq m          80,000
Type B                                  650        sq m          60,000
Other buildings                            600         sq m          60,000
Water supply system                        L.S.         -       10,000,000
Electric lighting system                   L.S.         -       12,000,000
Inspection & access roads                   75        km         3,500,000
Pumping station
Civil works                           L.S.         -       100,000,000
Erection of equipment                 L.S.         -        50,000,000
Primary & secondary canals
Earthwork                           770,000       cu m              650
Structures                              100       ea         5,000,000
Drainage canals & structures               L.S.         -      250,000,000
Tertiary development                       3,500       ha            90,000
Telecommunications                            50       km           750,000
Land acquisition                             200       ha           750,000



ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDONESIA -
IRRIGATION IX
Project Development Costs
Item                  Cost/ha /a    Cost/family
(US$)    
I. SEDEKU Irrigation and Drainage
Inspection and access road          116,
Housing for O&M staff                15
Headworks & weirs                   132
Primary & secondary canals          524
Canal structures                    146
Tertiary development                212
Drainage canals & structures        704
Telephone, communications            29
Land acquisition                    102
Total /b                 1,980               990 /d
II.  Sungai Dareh Irrigation
Preparatory works                    79
Housing for O&M staff                40
Inspection & access roads           237
Pumping station civil works
& equipment                      555
Primary & secondary canals          476
Canal structures                    476
Drainage canals & structures        237
Tertiary development                257
Telephone communications             40
Land acquisition                    158
Total /c                 2,555            2,300 /e
/a  Excluding price contingencies (21% of base cost plus
physical contingencies) and engineering, supervision and
administration (10%).
/b  Based on 8,000 ha of primary & secondary systems improvement,
17,000 ha of tertiary development and 19,000 ha of flood
control and drainage improvement; would apply only to areas
where all three of these rehabilitation components are present.
Average cost based on entire system would be about US$1,000/ha.
/c  Based on Stage I development of 3,500 ha.
/d  Based on average landholding of about 0.5 ha/family.
/e  Based on average landholding of about 0.9 ha/family.



ANNEX 4
Table 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Vehicles and Equipment /a
Item                      Quantity        Unit Cost         Amount
--U__--- Us -
SEDEKU Subproject
Construction and O&M Equipment /b
Dragline (3/4 cu yd) & mats              5              75,000         375,000
Bulldozer, swamp (120 hp)                5              50,000        250,000
Road roller (6-8 tons)                   2              30,000          60,000
Vibratory roller (1 ton)                 2              10,000          20,000
Pumps (5" )                              4               6,000          24,000
Trailer, low bed (20 ton)                1              60,000         60,000
Subtotal                                                     789,000
Vehicles
Jeeps                                   8                7,000         56,000
Station wagons (LWB)                     2              10,000         20,000
Motorcycles                             20                 500         10,000
Subtotal                                                      86,000
Other equipment                            Lot                 -           25,000
Total                                                     900,000
Sungai Dareh Subproject
Pumping station equipment
Pumps, mixed flow with electric
motor, 1,100 1/sec                    5               50,000        250,000
Diesel electric generating sets,
600 KVA                               6             120,000         720,000
Subtotal                                                   970,000



ANNEX 4
Table 4
Page 2
Vehicles and Equipment
Itemf                    Quantity         Unit Cost        Amount
-------- US$-
Vehicles
Jeeps                                  8                7,000         56,000
Station wagons, long wheel base        6              10,000          60,000
Motorcycles, 100 cc                   50                  500         25,000
Subtotal                                                  141,000
Miscellaneous equipment
Office equipment                      Lot                 -           39,200
Survey equipment                      Lot                 -           52,100
Geological & soil investigations
equipment                           Lot                 -          145,000
Agro climtological & irrigation
engineering equipment               Lot                 -           25,000
Subtotal                                                  261,300
Total                                               1,372,300
Studies & Investigations
Vehicles
Jeeps                                  14               7,000         98,000
Station wagons, long wheel base          7             10,000         70,000
Subtotal                                                  168,000
Equipment
Office equipment                      Lot                 -           88,000
Survey equipment                      Lot                            118,000
Agro climatological and irri-
gation engineering equipment        Lot                             25,000
Subtotal                                                  231,000
Total                                                  399,000
Grand Total                                          2,671,300
Rounded (US$2.7 million)
/a  Equipment to be procured under the project would be augmented by equipment
from other projects which have been completed or are nearing completion.
/b Equipment would be used for force account work or may be leased to contrac-
tors with insufficient equipment, if necessary., Upon completion of the
works, some of the equipment would be retained for O&M and the balance,
transferred to other construction areas.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
SMALL- TO MEDIUM-SCALE SYSTEMS
Studies and Investigations
Estimated Cost
Province and                                Construction       of Studies and
Project           Area     Status /a      Cost Estimate    Investigations /b
(ha)                    (US$ million)        (US$ million)
Southeast Sulawesi
Wawotobi           20,000   Planning
37.5              1.5
West Java
Cilandak            5,800   Construction         10.9              0.4
Ciletuh             7,000   Construction         14.5              0.4
Central Java
Waduk Ketro         3,600   Design                3.5              0.2
Bapang              4,200   Design                5.1              0.3
West Sumatera
Batang Tongar       8,000   Design               22.8              0.4
Panti Rao          11,000   Design               17.4              0.6
North Sumatera
Batang Gadis        7,000   Design               12.2              0.4
South Sumatera
Air Beliti         15,000   Planning             16.6              0.7
Grand Total        81,600                       140.5              5.2
/a All work completed to date have thus far been carried out with GOI funds.
/b Including vehicles and equipment.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Water Supply, Demand & Quality
SEDEKU Project
1.        The water supply problem in this area in the wet season has been
one of surplus rather than deficient water supply. The most critical water
problems are those of excessive and prolonged inundation of large areas with
consequent loss of paddy production, a reluctance to plant all potentially
productive areas because of the flood threat, the necessity to replant paddy
following destructive floods in hopes of salvaging a rice crop grown during
the latter stages of the wet season, and unwillingness to make necessary
investments in the maintenance of irrigation works due to the certainty of
frequent damaging floods.
2.        There are four major rivers in the area, the Penggaron, Dolok,
Jragung and Tuntang. Additionally, there are about 20 smaller rivers and
streams traversing or wholly contained in the area. The bulk of the flood
water comes from the four major rivers, and the minor rivers and streams are
essential internal drains for carrying off the local runoff and overbank
flow. All of the waterways serve as sources of irrigation water supply
during the nonflood periods. The Dolok, Setu and Jragung rivers are inter-
cepted in their lower reaches by the Prauvwaart Canal which is adjacent to
the Semarang-Demak road and serves as a source of supply for irrigation and
domestic user and is equipped with automatic gates that regulate its level
for both supply and drainage purposes. The Penggaron and Tuntang rivers
drain directly to the sea. In its lower reaches the Penggaron is known as
the Babon river.
3.        Major diversion points for water supply in the area are the
Puncanggading weir on the Penggaron river, Barang weir on the Dolok river,
Jragung and Guntur weirs on the Jragung river, an<l the Glapan weir on the
Tuntang river. Most of the rivers and streams have had their capacities
reduced by siltation, which increases the duration and magnitude of overbank
flow and the time required to drain flooded areas.
4.        Because of the necessity to replant wet-season paddy following the
frequent floods and lack of adequate water storage facilities, only about 15%
of the agricultural lands are irrigated in the dry season. With the project,
this is expected to increase to between 20 and 25%, due to increased channel
capacities, and improved irrigation facilities permitting more even distri-
bution of the available supply in the dry season.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
58        With the flood control and drainage measures that are included
4n this project, it would be possible to restore the irrigation system to
proper working order. This would include about 17,000 ha of tertiary
systems and rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of primary and secondary systems to
more fully utilize the available water supply and agriculture lands. The
other socio-economic advantages of the project related to water supply would
be the improvement of water quality for village and domestic purposes,
reduction of the magnitude and inundation time of villages, homes and
roads in the area, and reduction of losses to commercial fish farms lying
between the agricultural lands and the coast.
Sungai Dareh-Sitiunj Project
6.        The water supply for the initial stage of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
project will be derived from the Batang Hari. This is one of the largest
rivers in the West Sumatera province, having a drainage area of about 4,300
sq km above the proposed diversion point. For the full scale project of
20,000 ha, water supply would be derived from the Batang Hari and its three
tributaries, the Batang Siat, Piruko and Mimpi, which have a combined drainage
area of about 7000 sq km.
7.        Stream flow records of the Batang Hari are available from April
1975 to March 1976 (Table 1). The minimum flow recorded during that period
was 80 cu m/sec. This is about 15 times as large as the diversion require-
ment for the 3,500 ha first stage development of about 5.5 cu m/sec, and
more than twice the diversion requirement for the full-scale project without
considering the availability of water from the other three streams that will
be utilized. The quality of water in all of the streams is good to excellent
for sustained irrigation use.
8.        Since the initial stage of the project includes a temporary pumping
plant on the Batang Hari for water supply, the effect of floods will be an
important design consideration. Rainfall records in the basin are available
from 1956. Utilizing the Gumb2l method, maximum daily precipitation was
developed for varying frequency of occurrence. Maximum hourly intensities
were obtained for corresponding frequencies, and the Rational method employed
to estimate probable flood frequencies for Batang Hari and Batang Siat.
These data are presented in Table 2.
9.        The wate7 balance computation for the initial project is based upon
a double crop of rice on the entire 3,500 ha. It is derived by the modified
Penman formula for potential evapotranspiration and crop coefficients for
paddy from a PROSIDA/NEDECO study. Effective rainfall was computed as 50%
of the daily rainfall between 5 and 50 mm, with rainfall of less than 5 or
more than 50 mm being considered ineffective.  Percolation was estimated at
1.5 mm/day. Conveyance losses of 15% were assumed, and operational losses
of 20% of the diversion requirement were estimated to arrive at the total
diversion requirement. The water balance for the 3,500 ha initial stage is
given in Table 3.



ANNEX 5
Table I
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Discharge Records of Batang Hari
Daily discharge                    Peak
Year        Month               Max.          Min.         Mean         Discharge
------------------ (cu m/sec) ------------------
1975       April                600           195           398            900
May                  360          165           263            480
June                456            97           277             -
July                296            80           188            410
August               313          180           247            410
September           456           177           317            635
October              246          127           187            365
November             303          120           212            446
December             182          114           163            280
1976       January              365           143           254            502
February            271           118           195            405
March                258          146           202            392



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Estimated Peak Discharges
Peak flood discharge
Frequency          B. Hari             B. Siat
- (cu m/sec) --------
Once in 100 years    4,200                  650
Once in 50 years      3,800                 590
Once in 5 years       2,400                 440
Once in 2 years       1,700                 370



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
SUNGAI DAREll PROJECT
Water Balance Computation
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr   May   June   July    Aug   Sept    Oct    Nov    Dec
1.  Potential evapotranspiration (mm)            134    128    134    120   124    117    124    124    114    117    118    121
2.  Crop coefficient                            1.40   1.40   1.09   1.16  1.31   1.40   1.40   1.40   1.09   1.16   1.31   1.40
3.  Consumptive use                  (mm)        188    180    146    140   163    164    174    174    123    136    156    170
4.  Percolation                      (mm)         47      42      23     23    47       45      47      47      23      24      45      47
5.  Effective rainfall              (mm)         141    134      67    100   109        80      58      57      39      50    180    163
6.  Crop intensity                   (%)          94      50       6      6    50       94      94      50       6       6      50      94
7.  Puddling requirement            (mm)          -      -       -       53    88    150        -       -       -       53      88    150
8.  Nursery requirement              (mm)         -       -        1      4      4       2      -       -        1       7       5       2
9. Net water requirement
(3+4-5) 6+7+8                 (mm)          89      44       7      61   143    274    154        82       8      67    104    203
10.  Irrigation water point /1   (mm)             131      65      11      90   211    403    227    121         12      99    153    298
11.  Diversion requirement          (1/s/ha)      0.49   0.27   0.04   0.35  0.79   1.56   0.85   0.45  0.05   0.37   0.59   1.11
12. Diversion requirement
(3,500 ha)                    (mcm)       4.6    2.3    0.4    3.2   7.4   14.1    8.0    4.2   0.4    3.5    5.4   10.4
(3,500 ha)                (cu m/sec)    1.7    1.0    0.2    1.2   2.8    5.5    3.0    1.6   0.2    1.3               2.1    3.9
13.  Available water supply /2 (cu m/sec)    143    118    146    195   165              97      80    180    177    127    120    114
14.  Water balance                (cu m/sec)   +141   +117   +146   +194  +162    +91    +77   +178   +177   +125   +118   +110
/1  Overall water efficiency, 68% including conveyance and application losses.
/2  Minimum flow recorded during each month over period of record.
(  t



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Consulting Services
1.        SEDEKU Project.  This major civil works undertaking will require
the review by foreign consultants (to be engaged under the project) of
existing detailed designs and construction drawings prepared by NEDECO for
channel modifications, embankment improvement and construction, dredging,
and rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage systems. The same
consultants would supervise construction of those works. Local consultants
would be employed to prepare detailed designs and construction drawings for
tertiary irrigation and drainage facilities.
2.        It is estimated that about 50 man-months of expatriate consulting
services and about 220 man-months of local consulting services, including
surveyors 'and draftsmen, will be required.
3.        The consultants' review would be based upon the feasibility studies
and subsequent deailed engineering conducted by NEDECO, and included in its
report on the Jratunseluna Basin /1 Development Plan, May 1974. That study
embraced a larger area than the SEDEKU area, but the plan for the SEDEKU area
is an integrated and coordinated part of the whole.
4.        Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Project.  Detailed design of the irrigation and drai-.
age system for the initial 3,500 ha development would be performed by foreign
and local consultants working from the feasibility study undertaken by DOI.
The same consultants would complete the feasibility study for the development
of the remaining 16,500 ha for irrigated agriculture. Subject to the
results of that study and, contingent upon the approval of GOI and the Bank,
the consultants would proceed to prepare the remaining area for implementa-
tion following arrangements for suitable financing. A total of about 540
man-months of local and 295 man-month of foreign consultant assistance would
be required, of which 190 man-months local and 145 man-months foreign would
be for work associated with the initial stage and the feasibility study.
5.        Studies and investigations.  For the past decade, DOI has been
identifying, planning, designing and constructing small- to medium-sized
irrigation projects throughout Indonesia. To date there has been no direct
Bank assistance for these activities, and financing has been from GOI funds.
Due to budgetary constraints, progress in implementing the program has been
slow and somewhat fragmented. A major objective of the program has been to
plan and construct irrigation systems that would complement GOI efforts
/1 See para. 3.01.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
towards population dispersal. The studies included in the project cover nine
specific sites in Java, Sumatera and Sulawesi. They would be directed to the
development of irrigation schemes for those areas to assure successful
settlement. Some of the areas would be settled by families participating in
the GOI program for population dispersal, in addition to those that would be
displaced by the construction of Jatigede dam in Java. Others would be
developed for the benefit of farm families that are already in the surrounding
area.
6.        All nine project areas have been studied in varying detail ranging
from reconnaissance grade to near feasibility standards. Some construction
has been undertaken at several project sites, consisting of construction of
weirs, headworks and the initial reaches of primary canals. General plans for
irrigation system development exist for all areas. However, study standards
and criteria would have to be upgraded to assure engineering, agricultural
and economic feasibility required for appraisal of the proposed works by the
Bank.
7.        The project would provide for the engagement of local and foreign
consultants to develop a feasibility report for each of the proposed devel-
opments for future appraisal by the Bank. The work would include soil
surveys and land classification, hydrologic investigations, agricultural,
agronomic and economic analyses, and final scheme development and design.
8.        The total consultant requirement would approximate 870 man-months
of local consultant and about 465 man-months of foreign consultants effort
over a two year period.
9.        A summary of consultant services required for the entire project
is presented in Table 1.



ANNEX 6
Tab le 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Summary of Consultant Requirements
Foreign /a      Local /b
Man-months -----
SEDEKU
Review of existing designs and construction drawings
and construction supervision of irrigation and
drainage works.                                                    50
Tertiary systems, detailed design and preparation
of construction drawings (17,000 ha).                               -            220
Subtotal                                           50            220
Sungai Dareh
Initial stage (3,500 ha), detailed engineering and
construction supervision, including tertiary systems
on 2,000 ha, and feasibility study for ultimate system.    145                   190
Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents for remaining 16,500 ha.                                150            350
Subtotal                                          295            540
Studies and Investigations
Java and Sumatera systems                                         345            650
Sulawesi system                                                   120            220
Subtotal                                          465            870
Total                                             810          1,630
/a Includes expatriates assigned to the field and short-term specialists.
/b Includes engineers, draftsmen and technicians.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Estimated Consultant Requirements
Man-Months
SEDEKU
A.  Local Design Engineers                                                220
B. Expatriate
Design Engineer                                               6
Hydraulic Engineer                                            6
Construction Engineer                                        24
Short-term Specialists                                       14
50
Subtotal (SEDEKU)                                            270
Sungai Dareh
Initial Stage
A.  Local Design Engineers                                                 190
B. Expatriate
Electrical-Mechanical Design Engineer                        10
Civil Design Engineers                                       30
Construction Engineers                                       48
Hydraulic Engineers                                           8
Agricultural Economist                                       12
Soil Scientist                                               12
Short-term Specialists                                       25
145
Subtotal                                                     335
Second Stage Design
A.  Local Consultants                                                     350
B. Expatriate
Design Engineer                                              48
Hydraulic Engineer                                           18
Estimators                                                   24
Specification Writer                                         18
Short-term Specialist                                        42
150
Subtotal                                                    500
Subtotal (Sungai Dareh)                                     835



ANNEX 6
Table 2
Page 2
Feasibility Studies - Small- to Medium-Sized Projects
Java and Sumatera Systems
A.  Local Consultants
(Planning and Design)                                                650
B.  Expatriate
Planning Engineer                                           30
Hydraulic/Hydrologic Engineer                               24
Civil Design Engineer                                       45
Irrigation Engineers                                        48
Structural Geologist                                        18
Agricultural Economists                                     48
Soil. Scientists                                            72
Short-term Specialists                                      60
345
Subtotal                                                    995
Sulawesi System
A.  Local Consultants                                                    220
B.  Expatriates
Planning Engineer                                           24
Hydraulic/Hydrologic Engineer                               12
Civil Design Engineer                                       12
Irrigation Engineer                                         30
Agricultural Economist                                       6
Soil Scientists                                             24
120
Subtotal                                                    240
Subtotal (Feasibility Studies)                            1,335
Grand Total                                               2,440
Local                                                  (1,630)
Expatriate                                               (810)



ANNEX 7
Table I
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Cost Estisate /a
Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total       Local  Foreign  Total         Exrhange
------ Rp Million                    US$ Millio-  ----           ()
I. SEDEKU Irrigation aod Drainage
Civil Worka
Hoosing for 06H staff                       40        -          40       0.1       -        0.1          35
Inspection and acoess road                 455       335        790       1.1       0.8      1.9          40
Headworko and weirs                        165       210        375       0.4       0 5      0.9          55
Prinary and secondary canals               760       745      1,495       1.8       1.8       3.6         50
Canal structures                           205       210        415       0.5       0.5      1.0          50
Tertiary develop-ent                       915       370      1,285       2.2       0.9       3.1         30
Draioage canals and structures          2,370      2,405      4,775       5.7       3.8     11.5          50
Sobrotal                      4,900     4,275      9.173      11.8      10.3      22.1          47
Consulting servic.s /b                       165        250       415       0.4       0.6       1.0          55
Vehicles aod equipr.et /c                    -         375      1,375        -        0.9      0.9         100
Telephone coora-nications                     -          85        85        -        0.2       0.2          80
Adnioistration and overhead                  330         85       415       0.8       0.2       1.0          15
Land acquinition iX                          625       -          625       1.5        -        1.5           -
Base cost                     6,020      5,070    11,090      14.5      12.2      26.7          46
Physical contingeocies                    1,205        995      2,200       2.9       2.4       5.3         46
Exp-cted price increases /d               1,745      1,490      3,235       4.2       3.6       7.8         46
Total                         8,970     7,555    16,525       21.6      18.2      39.8          46
IT. Slngei Dareh Irrigation Syste=
Civil Works
Preparatory works                           40        45         85       03.1      0.1      0.2          30
Offices & henning for OM5 staff            210        80        290       0.5       0.2      0.7          35
Inspection and across roads               165         85        250       0.4      0.2       0.6          40
Pumping station /h                          80        85        165       0.2       0.2      0.4          55
Prizary and secondary canals               250       250        500       0.6       0.6      1.2           50
Canal structures                           250       250        500       0.6       0.6      1.2          50
Drainage canals and structures             125        125       250       (.3       0.3      0.6          50
Tertiary contruction                       210         80       290       0.5       0.2      0.7           30
Slbtotal                      1.330     1,000      2_330       3.2       2.4       5.6          43
Consulting services Le                       370        915     1,285       0.9       2.2       3.1          70
Vehiclen and eq.ip-ent /c                     -         580       580        -        1.4       1.4         100
Telephone co-ounicati.os                      -          40         40       -        0.1       0.1          80
Administration and overhead                  165         45        210      C .4      0.1       0.5          15
Land acquisition                             165         -        165       C.4        -        0.4           -
Base cost                     2,030      2.580     4.610       4.9       6.2      11.1          56
Physical contingencies                       495        665     1,160       1.2       1.6       2.8          56
Fxpected price increases /d                  455       665      1,120       1.1       1.6       2.7          56
Total        -                2.980      3.910     6.890       7.2       9.4      16.6          56
III.  Studies and inventigations
Java and Su-atera nyntens
Consulting services /f                     500       955      1,455       1.2       2.3       3.5         65
Vehiclen and equinent                       -         85         85        -        0.2      0.2         100
Mapping                                     40         85       125       0.1       0.2       0.3          80
Subtotal                        540     1.125      1.665       1.3       2.7       4.0          68
Sulawreni system
Consulting servicen /f                     210        330       540       0.5       0.8       1.3          65
Vehiclos and equip-est                      -          85        85       .-        0.2       0.2        100
Mapping                                     80        250       330       0,2       0.6       0.8          80
Base Cost                       830     1,790      2,620       2.0       4.3       6.3          68
Phynical costingoncies                      85        165       250       0.2       0.4       0.6          68
Expected price increases                    80        210       290       0.2       0.5       0.7          68
Total                           995      2,165     3,160       2.4       5.2       7.6          68
Grand Total                  12.945    13,630    26,575       31.2      32.8      64.0          51
/a  Updated to end 1977 prices and based on exchange rate of Rp 415 - US51.0.
/b Provided for co-ntruction supervision (foreign and local ononultants) and tertiary design on 17,000 ha
(local consultants) at billing rates of US$6,000-US$7,000/ran-=onth for expatriates, US51,200-US$1,500/
man-month for local engineers and US0450/man-onuth for local draftonen; al.o inc-iden consultants' travel
anod riscellaneous expessen.
/c  See Amono 4, Table 4.
/d  Sne Table 2.
/e  Provided far detailed engineering and construction supervision on firat 3,500 ha and feasibility study
and detailed engineering for 20,000 ha (foreign and local consaltatsr) at billing rates nimilar to those in
footnote /b.
/f  Provided for feasibility studios on modium-.rale irrigation nynteta (foreign and local consultLants) at
billing rates similar to those in footnote /b; also includes consultants specialieed equipment, travel
and niscellaneous expenses.
L Land valued at Rp 150 - Rp 250/sq m.
/h  Includes civil works and erection of electrical and nechanical eqoipnent.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Annual Inflation Rate, %
Civil works /a                 20       15      15      12       12
Equipment & services            7.5      7.5     7.5     7        7
Indonesian Fiscal Year /b    Total
77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81   Increase
 ________________ _ (%) -------------
Annual Inflation Rate
Civil works                      4 /c   15       13       12
Equipment & services             2 Ic    7.5      7.5      7
 ______-_- IUS$ Million ----------
I. Sedeku Irrigation and
Drainage System
Civil works                      -        1.8     3.2     2.1       7.1
Equipment & services             _        0.2     0.3     0.2       0.7
Total                    -       2.0      3.5     2.3       7.8
II. Sungai Dareh Irrigation System
Civil works                      -        0.5     0.7     0.5       1.7
Equipment & services             -        0.2     0.5     0.3       1.0
Total                    -       0.7      1.2     0.8       2.7
III. Studies and investigations
Civil works                      -         -       -       -
Equipment & services             -        0.6     0.1      -        0.7
Total                    -       0.6      0.1      -        0.7
Grand Total              -       3.3      4.8     3.1      11.2
/a  Projected from inflation rates experienced in a large number of contracts in
irrigation projects in Indonesia and based on assumption that inflation rates
for local currency component equal those for indirect foreign exchange costs.
/b April 1 - March 31.
/c Base cost already updated to end-1977 prices.



ANNEX 7
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Cost            Loan
Total    Foreign    Amount
US$ million -------
I. Civil works:
PROSIDA                                    22.1        10.3       14.4
DOI                                          5.6        2.4        3.7
Physical contingencies                      1.2         0.6         -
Expected price increases                    1.2         0.6         -
Subtotal                              30.1       13.9       18.1 /a
II. Vehicles and equipment: lb
PROSIDA                                      1.1        1.1        1.2
DOI                                          1.9        1.9        2.0
Physical contingencies                       -           -          -
Expected price increases                    0.2         0.2         -
Subtotal                               3.2        3.2        3.2 /c
III. Consulting services:
PROSIDA                                      1.0        0.6        1.0
DOI                                          7.9        5.3        8.3
Physical contingencies                       -           -          -
Expected price increases                    0.4         0.2         -
Subtotal                               9.3        6.1        9.3 /d
IV. Mapping:
DOI                                         1.1         0.8        1.0
Physical contingencies                        -          -          -
Expected price increases                    0.1         0.1         -
Subtotal                               1.2        0.9        1.0 /e
V. Unallocated:
Balance of physical contingencies           7,5         3.8        1.6
Balance of expected price increases         9.3         4.6        1.9
Administration and overhead                  1.5        0.3         -
Land acquisition                             1.9         -          -
Subtotal                              20.2        8.7        3.4
Total                                 64.0       32.8       35.0
/a Disbursements will be 60% of total expenditures.
/b Includes telecommunications equipment.
/c Disbursements will be 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported goods and equipment, 95% of ex-factory costs for locally
manufactured equipment, 65% of total expenditures for locally
procured imported goods and equipment, excluding vehicles; and 40%
imported goods and equipment, 95% of ex-factory costs for locally
manufactured equipment, 65% of total expenditures for locally
procured imported goods and equipment, excluding vehicles; and 40%
of total expenditures for locally assembled vehicles.
/d  Disbursements will be 100% of total expenditures for both foreign and
local consultants.
/e Disbursements will be 80% of total expenditures.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Schedule of Expenditures
Indonesian Fiscal Year /a Total
77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  Cost
---------- US$ million ----------
I. Sedeku Irrigation and
Drainage System                      4.8    13.1   14.6   7.3   39.8
II.  -Sungai Dareh Irrigation System        2.0      5.5    6.0   3.1   16.6
III.  Studies and Investigations              1.0     5.8    0.8    -       7.6
Total                              7.8    24.4   21.4  10.4   64.0
/a April 1 - March 31.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Schedule of Expenditures
Indonesian Fiscal Year /a   Total
ItEm                      77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81    Cost
--           US$ Million ------------
I. Sedeku Irrigation and
Drainage System
Civil works                         3.3      7.7      7.7      3.4    22.1
Equipment & services                0.7      1.6      1.6      0.7      4.6
Base Cost                4.0      9.3      9.3      4.1    26.7
Physical contingencies              0.8      1.8      1.8      0.9      5.3
Expected price increases             -       2.0      3.5      2.3      7.8
Total                    4.8    1.3.1    14.6       7.3    39.8
II. Sungai Dareh Irrigation System
Civil works                         0.8      2.0      2.0      0.8      5.6
Equipment & services                0.8      1.8      1.8      1.1      5.5
Base Cost                1.6      3.8      3.8      1.9    11.1
Physical contingencies              0.4      1.0      1.0      0.4      2.8
Expected price increases             -       0.7      1.2      0.8      2.7
Total                    2.0      5.5      6.0      3.1    16.6
III. Studies and Investigations
Civil works                          -        -        -        -        -
Equipment & services                0.9      4.7      0.7       -       6.3
Base Cost                0.9      4.7      0.7       -       6.3
Physical contingencies              0.1      0.5       -        -       0.6
Expected price increases             -       0.6      0.1       -       0.7
Total                    1.0      5.8      0.8       -       7.6
Grand total              7.8    24.4    21.4    10.4    64.0
/a April 1 - March 31.



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated
Bank Fiscal Year         Disbursements
and Semester           (US$ Million)
1978
1st                    0.1
2nd                    0.6
1979
1st                    3.4
2nd                    9.8
1980
1st                   15.4
2nd                   24.9
1981
1st                   30.2
2nd                   33.5
1982
1st                   35.0



ANNEX 9
Table 1
INDONESIA           -
IRRIGATION IX
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
Breakdown of Current and Proposed O&M Funds
Item                                                          76/77        77/78
--- (Rp/ha) ----
Salaries, irrigation supervisors and below                      820           880
Annual desilting                                                 500          550
Canal repairs, trimming and sodding                              155          190
Maintenance of headworks, structures, gates,
masonry linings, etc.                                      1,100        1,150
Transport                                                         50           60
Administration                                                    35           40
Housing and office                                                15           25
Workshops                                                        130          140
Inspection roads                                                120          140
Communications                                                   25           30
Hydrological stations                                            70           75
Maintenance of drainage works                                   180          220
Total /a                                      3,200       3,500
/a From Central Government. In addition, Provincial Government allocates
about Rp 900/ha to cover salaries of personnel above irrigation supervisor,
for a total of Rp 4,100/ha.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
FY77/78 Budgetary Allocation for Bank-Aasisted Pro1ect a
Rehabilitated Areas /b   R1977/78   ehabilitation Areaa /c|  Future Rehabilitation Areas /d I                      Total Area
I          Unit        Total                 Unit        Total                      Unit        Total    I                  Total        Unit
Subproject                  Area    Budget        Budget      Area    Budget        Budget    I   Area       Budget       Budget         Area         Budget       Budget
(ha)    (Rp/ha)  (Rp Million)l (ha)    (Np/ha)  (Rp Million) I   (ha)            (Rp/ha)  (Rp Million)I   (ha)        (Np Million)  (Rp/ha)
Credit 127-IND            I                                 I                      .           I
Rentang                 | 90,216   3,500          315.8  I       _        _             _           - _          _             _        90,216        315.8       3,500
Cisedane                I 40,663   3,500          [42.3  I       -        -             _   I       _            _             _  I    40,663          142.3      3,500
Glapan-Sedadi             46,010   3,500          161.0  |       -        -              -   I       -           _             _        46,010         161.0      3,500
Way Seputih             | 11,500   3.500           40.3  I       -                             13,500 /e   1,000            13.5  |    25,000           53.8      2.152
Total                1188,389   3,500          659.4  I       _        _             _   | 13,500        1,000           13.5  |   201,889         672.9      3,333
Credit 220-IND
Ciujung                   24,300   3,500           85.1          --                                              -             - _      24,300         85.1       3,500
Pemali-Comal            1123,283   3,500          431.5  I       _        _             _           - _                        -  I   123,283         431.5       3,500
Sadang                  1 47,330   3.500          165.7       3.000   1.300           3.9    I      _            _                      50,330        169.6       3.370
Total                1194,913   3,500          682.3  |  3,000   1,300             3.9   I       _           _              _  I   197,913         686.2      3,467
Credit 289-IND            I
Pekalen-Sampean         1148,550   3,500          519.9   I 50,000   1,300           65.0   | 30,560        1,600           48.9  I   229,110         633.8       2,766
Loan 1100-IND
Cirebon                 I 12,000   3,500           42.0  I 20,000   1,300            26.0    I 56,515       1,600           90.4  I    88,515          158.4      1,790
Sampean Baru              -  - -                      _  I       _        _             _   |  8,000 /f          _           _    |      8,000          1
Total                I 12,000   3,500           42.0  I 20,000   1,300            26.0    I 64,515       1,400           90.4  I    96,505         158.4      1,641
Loan 1268-lND1
NBrth Sadang            I      _        _             -  |  2,000   1,300             2.6    I 4,000 /f          -             _  I      6,000           2.6        433
Irrigation VIII
Madiun (Stage I)               - _         _          _          - _         _          _      75,000        1,600         120.0  |    75,000          120.0      1,600
Subtotal (PROSIDA) 1543,852   3,500          1,903.6  | 75,000   1,300            97.5   1187,575        1,454         272.8  |   806,427        2,273.9      2,820
Credits 195 6 514-IND   I
Jatiluhur               1230,000   4,200          966.0  I 15,000   1,300            19.5   | 43,000 /g   1,000             43.0  I   288,000       1,028.5      3,571
Irrigation IX
SEDEKU /h               | 9,000   3,500            31.5  I       -                  - -      | 8,000        1,600           12.8      _ 17,000         44.3      2,606
Grand Total          1782,852    3,706      2,901.1  I 90,000   1,300            117.0   1238,575        1,377         328.6    1,111,427        3,346.7      3,011
/a  Fron Central Government (established jointly by GOI and the Bank).
/b  Would require full OM funds.
/c  Would require operating funds until they are shut down for rehabilitation.
/d Would require funds for operation and urgent repairs to keep systems functioning until they are rehabilitated.
/e System rehabilitated but service area not yet cleared; minimal maintenance funds required.
/f No water supply until main canal is completed.
/S Primarily nontechnical systems requiring significant new systen construction (minimal maintenance funds).
/h  For OM purposes, 10,926 ha of this system, which vere rehabilitated under the Glapan-Sedadi subproject (Credit 127-IND), would continue to be
funded under that subproject.



AtiNEK 10
Table 1
INDONES IA
IRRIGATION IX
Commodity Price Structure, 1977 and 1985
(Rp and US$/ton at constant end 1977 prices) /a
SEDEKU
1977                    1985
Rp/ton   US$/ton        Rp/ton   US$/ton
Rice
Export price Thai 5%-42% brokens mix
f.o.b. Bangkok /b                                114,400      220        150,800       290
Ocean freight and insurance                         10,400       20          10,400       20
Port handling, storage and transport to
wholesalers                                        3,700        7           3,700        7
Transport mill to wholesaler                        -2,000       -5         -2,000        -5
Rice price ex-mill, project area                   126,500      243        162,900       313
Paddy equivalent price (63% rice recovery)          79,700      153        102,600       197
Milling costs less value of by-products               -700       -i            -700       -1
Drying and cleaning                                 -1,500       -3         -1,500        -3
Handling and transport costs, farm to mill          -1,200       -2         -1,200        -2
Farm-gate paddy price /c                            76,300      147         99,200       191
(Financial farm-gate price) /d                   (65,000)    (157)       (79,300)    (191)
Singai Dareh
1977                    1985
Rp/ton   US$/ton        Rp/ton   US$/ton
Rice
Export price Thai 5%-42% brokens mix
f.o.b. Bangkok /b                                114,400      220        150,800      290
Ocean freight and insurance                         10,400       20          10,400       20
Rice price c.i.f. Jakarta                          124,800      240         161,200      310
Freight and insurance Jakarta-Padang                -4,100       -8         -4,100        -8
Port handling, storage and transport to
wholesalers                                       -2,500       --5        -2,500        -5
Transport mill to wholesaler                        -4,1100      -8         -4,100        -8
Rice price ex-mill, project area                   114,100      219         150,500      289
Paddy equivalent price (63% rice recovery)          71,900      138          94,800      182
Milling costs less value of by-products               -700       -1            -700       -1
Drying and cleaning                                 -1,500       -3          -1,500       -3
Handling and transport costs, farm to mill          -1,200       -2         -1,200        -2
Farm-gate paddy price /c                            68,500      132          91,400      176
(Financial farm-gate price) /d                   (65,000)    (157)       (79,300)    (191)
/a  Economic prices; figures in parentheses are financial prices.
lb  Assumed rice quality:  10% of production, 5% brokens; 60% nedium grade, 25-35%
brokens; and 30% lower grade, 42% brokens. Prices assumed in 1985 (in constant
end-1977 prices), 5% brokens US$405/ton, 25-35% brokens US$275/ton and 42%
brokens US$263/ton.
/c  At a shadow foreign exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 520.
/d  At the official exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 415.  Present: financial price
calculated as follows:  floor price at BUUD/KUD for 14% mo sture content
paddy Rp 70/kg less Rp 1.5/kg drying and cleaning, Rp 1.2/kg transport from
farm to BUUD/KUD, Rp 2.3/kg for market imperfections. In the future, distor-
tions between internal and world prices are expected to be eliminated.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Commodity Price Structure, i977 and 1985
(Rp and US$/ton at constant end-1977 prices) /a
SEDEKU
1977                   1985
Rp/ton   US$/ton       Rp/ton   US$/ton
Soybean
Export price f.o.b. US Gulf port        119,600      230        173,700      334
Ocean freight and insurance              19,800       38         19,800       38
Port handling, Semarang                   2,900        6          2,900        6
Price on truck, Semarang                142,300      274        196,400      378
Transport farm to Semarang               -2,900       -6         -2,900       -6
Farm-gate price /b                      139,400      268        193,500      372
(Financial farm-gate price) /c    (130,000)    (313)         (154,400)   (372)
SEDEKU and Sungai Dareh
1977                   1985
Rp/ton   US$/ton       Rp/ton   US$/ton
Urea
World export price /d                    89,400      172        100,400      193
Ocean freight and insurance              11,400       22          4,200        8
Handling and distribution costs
to retail level                        19,100       37         19,100       37
Transport BUUD kiosk to farm              1,000        2          1,000        2
Farm-gate price /b                      120,900      233        124,700      240
(Financial farm-gate price) /c        (71,000)    (171)       (99,600)   (240)
TSP
World export price /e                    71,200      137         89,400      172
Ocean freight and insurance              11,400       22         11,400       22
Handling and distribution costs
to retail level                        19,100       37         19,100       37
Transport BUUD kiosk to farm              1,000        2          1,000        2
Farm-gate price /b                      102,700      198        120,900      233
(Financial farm-gate price) /c        (71,000)   (171)        (96,700)   (233)
/a  Economic prices; figures in parentheses are financial prices.
/b  At a shadow foreign exchange rate of US$1.00   Rp 520.
/c  At the official exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 415.  Present financial
price is calculated as follows: fixed retail price at BUUD/KUD of
Rp 70/kg plus Rp 1/kg BUUD/KUD to farm transport cost. In the future,
distortion between internal and world prices are expected to be eliminated.
/d Zxport price 1977 f.o.b. Tokyo, 1985 f.o.b. Palembang.
/e Export price 1977 f.o.b. Tokyo.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Crop and Farm Budgeats
1.        Annex 2 contains the existing and proposed cropping patterns.  This
annex shows separately for the SEDEKU and SungaiL Dareh-Sitiung areas:
(a) production costs for irrigated and raiLnfed crops at present, and in
the future "with" the project (Tables 1, 2). At SEDEKU separate
production costs have been prepared for the 9,000 ha (Area A)
flooded annually under present conditions, and flooded once in five
years with the project; and the 21,000 ha (Area B) flooded every
two to five years under present conditions and flooded less than
once in five years with the project. Present costs and input use
are based on interviews with farmers and government officials in
the areas during appraisal. Without the project little change is
expected in the future level of inputs. Future input levels for
"with project" conditions are based on recommendations of the BIMAS
program at SEDEKU, and of the provincial agricultural services at
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung;
(b) monthly labor requirements per ha based on present and proposed
cropping calendars for the wet and dry seasons (Table 4). Present
labor requirements and those in the future without the project, are
assumed the same. Under project conditions, labor used for planting
would fall at SEDEKU on the 9,000 ha (Area A) now flooded annually
since flooding would be reduced to one in five years, and conse-
quently so would replanting after flooding. Labor requirements
would increase in both areas for weeding, fertilizer and pesticide
applications, irrigation, harvesting, threshing and drying. Labor
requirements at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung are lower than at SEDEKU
because farmers would use buffalos or cattle extensively for
cultivation; introduce mechanical threshing, and generally use farm
labor more efficiently as labor is scarce relative to Java;
(c) crop budgets for the present and the future "with" and "without"
the project (Table 5);
(d) farm budgets for typical family farms of 0.5 and 1.5 ha in the
SEDEKU area (Tables 6, 7), and 1.0 ha in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
area. The Government proposes to establish 1.0 ha farms at Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung. Since sharecropper's farms are common at SEDEKU,
they have been analyzed independently. The budgets are calculated
according to cash flows. Labor costs include only hired and
harvest labor, not farm family labor, and were determined for
nonharvest periods by calculating the excess of total monthly labor
requirements over an estimated 40 man-days of farm family labor per



ANNEX 11
Page 2
month. Hired farm labor is costed at Rp 220/day at SEDEKU, and
Rp 350/day at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. For the analysis, soybeans
represent the area of secondary or palawija crops at SEDEKU.
Average annual land taxes at present and with the project, respec-
tively, are Rp 2,000 and Rp 10,000/ha on Area A, and Rp 4,000 and
Rp 10,000/ha on Area B at SEDEKU; Rp 1,000 and Rp 12,000/ha at
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. In both areas farmers would contribute
Rp 3,900/ha annually for O&M of the tertiary and quaternary units.
At SEDEKU, except for the landlord paying the land tax and the
share cropper and his family contributing their labor, the landlord
and sharecropper divide equally gross production less harvesting
and other production costs; and
(e) the cash flow for a 1.0 ha farm at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung from the
first year of settlement until crop production reaches its maximum
in year six. In year one the farmer would have to land level, and
would only have time to grow one rice crop. However, income from
that crop plus nine months of DGT food aid should be sufficient to
meet his family's needs. In the following years crop income should
meet the farm families income needs.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Crop Production Costs: Present Situation (1977) /a
SEDEKUJ                                           Sungai Dareh
Area A                                       Area B
Irrigated Rice                   Irrigated Rice            Irrigated Soybean    Rainfed Rice
Wet season    Dry season         Wet season    Dry season          Dry season /b         Wet season
Cash Inputs (Rp '000/ha)
Cultivation                    13.6           13.6              13.6           8.0                                      20.0
Seed                        5.0 (4.2)       3.8 (3.3)         3.2 (2.9)      3.2 (2.9)            4.2 (3.9)           2.7 (2.6)
Fertilizer                  3.5 (2.2)       3.5 (2.2)        22.9 (13.8)   23.8 (14.4)            1.3 (0.9)           6.9 (4.3)
Agro-chemicals               -    -          -    -           7.3 (2.1)      7.5 (2.1)             -    -
Harvesting                  4.3 (3.7)       4.3 (3.7)         7.6 (6.4)      8.0 (6.8)             -    -             3.3 (3-1)
Other                        1.0 (1.0)      1.0 (1.0)         1.9 (1.9)      1.8 (1.8)            1.6 (1.6)           1.0 (1.0)
Interest                     -  (2.1)        -  (2.0)         -  (2.2)        -  (1-8)             -  (0.4)            -  (2.8)
Total cash inputs   27.4 (26.8)   26.2 (25.8)         56.5 (42.9)     52.3 (37.8)            7.1 (6.8)          33.9 (33.8)
Labor inputs (man-day/ha)
Land preparation                 55             55                55              55                   10                  24
Planting                         52             40                40              40                   20                  40
Crop management                  60             57                82              83                   18                  36
Harvesting                       48             48                59              59                   28                  20
Total labor inputs              215            200               236             237                   76                 120
/a  Economic prices based on world market prices for rice and fertilizer for use in economic analysis.  Figures in
parentheses are financial prices.
/b  Although irrigated, most crops suffer moisture stress and are mainly dependent on rainfall and residual subsoil                    z
moisture from the preceding crop.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Crop Production Costs: Future Without Project /a
SEDEKU                                         Sungai Dareh
Area A                                   Area B
Irrigated rice                Irrigated rice          Irrigated soybean    Rainfed rice
Wet season    Dry season    Wet season    Dry season          Dry season /b         Wet season
Cash Inputs (Rp'000/ha)
Cultivation                      13.6           13.6           13.6           8.0                                    20.0
Seed                         6.4   (5.2)   5.0   (4.0)   4.3   (2.7)   4.2   (2.6)            5.8  (4.6)          3.7   (3.2)
Fertilizer                   3.7   (3.0)   3.7   (3.0)  24.1  (19.3)  25.2  (20.1)            1.4  (1.1)          7.4   (5.9)
Agrochemicals                     -           -             7.3   (7.3)   7.6   (7.6)         1.1  (1.1)           -       -
Harvesting                   5.7   (4.5)   5.7   (4.5)   9.9   (8.0)  10.5   (8.4)             -      -           4.9   (4.3)
Other                        1.0   (1.0)   1.0   (1.0)   2.3   (2.3)   1.9   (2.0)            1.9  (1.9)          1.0   (1.0)
Interest                      -    (2.3)    -    (2.2)    -    (2.7)    -    (2.6)             -   (0.5)           -    (3.0)
Total                    30.4  (29.6)  29.0  (28.3)  61.5  (55.9)  57.4  (51.3)           10.2  (9.2)        37.0  (37.4)
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Land preparation                 55             55             55              55                10                  24
Planting                        52              40             40             40                 20                  40
Crop management                 60              57             82              83                18                  36
Harvesting                      48              48             59              60                28                  20
Total                       215            200             236            238                 76                 120
/a  Economic prices based on world market prices for rice and fertilizer for use in economic analysis.  Figures in
parentheses are financial prices.
/b  Although irrigated, most soybean crops suffer moisture stress and are mainly dependent on rainfall and residual
subsoil moisture from the preceding crop.
cz
I'.   t
I-x



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Crop Production Costs:  Future with Project at Full Development (1986) /a
SEDEKU                                      Sungai-Dareh
Irrigated Rice        ~Irrigated Soybean           Irrigated Rice
Wet season           Dry season          Wet season        Dry season    Wet season
Area A        Area B        Area A+B
Cash Inputs (Rp '000/ha)
Cultivation                  13.6          13.6           12.6                                   20.0          20.0
Seed                      4.1 (2.5)    4.1 (2.5)        4.0 (2.4)         5.8 (4.6)            3.7 (2.4)    3.7 (2.4)
Fertilizer                31.0 (24.8)  31.0 (24.8)   32.6 (26.3)          3.0 (2.4)           40.7 (32.5)  40.7 (32.5)
Agro-chemicals            10.0 (10.0)  10.0 (10.0)   10.0 (10.0)          3.8 (3.8)           11.9 (11.9)  11.9 (11.9)
Harvesting                11.9 (9.5)   12.8 (10.2)   12.8 (10.2)           -    -             25.6 (20.5)  25.6 (20.5)
Other                      3.0 (3.0)    3.0 (3,0)       3.0 (3.0)         2.5 (2.5)            3.0 (3.0)    3.0 (3.0)
Interest                   -  (3.4)       -  (3.4)       -  (3.4)          -  (0.7)             -  (6.4)      -  (6.4)
Total cash inputs  73.6 (66.8)  74.5 (67.5)   75.0 (67.9)           15.1 (14.0)        104.9 (96.7) 104.9 (96.7)
Labor Inputs (mian-day/ha)
Land preparation                     55                    50                  10                         30
Planting                             40                    40                  20                         40
Crop management                      95                   100                  20                         55
Harvesting                           65                    65                  35                         25
Total labor inputs                  255                   255                  85                        150
/a Economic prices based on world market prices for rice and fertilizer for use in economic analysis.
Figures in parentheses are financial prices.
M >4
{D t.1
I-



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs
SEDEKU                                               Sungai Dareh
Area A                         Area B
Irrigated Rice            IrriRated Rice         Soybean       Rainfed Rice        Irrigated Rice
Inputs/ha                                  Wet season  Dry season  Wet season  Dry season  Dry season           Wet season   Wet season  Dry season
Present
Cultivation   :          (animal-days) /a  17            17           17            10            -             28
Seed                              ( (kg)    65           50           34           32            30             40
Fertilizer /b :  urea              (kg)     25           25          155          161             -             40
TSP             (kg)       5            5           40           42           12              20
Agro-chemicals:  diasinon           (1)      -            -             1.8          1.9          0.5            -
zinc phosphide (gm)        -            -          185          180            -               -
Harvesting     : (% of crop yield/ha)                                                                            3
Interest /c   :              (%/month)       2            2            1            1             2              2
Future without project
Cultivation   :          (animal-days) /a  17            17           17            10            -             28
Seed           .                   (kg)     65           50           34            33           30             40
Fertilizer /b :  urea              (kg)     25           25          154           160            -             40
TSP             (kg)       5            5           40           42           12              20
Agro-chemicals:  diasinon           (1)      -             -            1.8          1.9          0.3            -
zinc phosphide (gm)        -            -          200          200            -               -
Harvesting     : (% of crop yield/ha)        3             3            3            3            -              3
Interest /c   :              (%/month)       1.5          1.5           1.5          1.5          2              1.5
Future with proiect (1986)
Cultivation   :          (animal-days) /a  17             17          17            17            -                             28           28
Seed           :                   (kg)     32           30            32           30           30                             30           30
Fertilizer /b :  urea              (kg)    200          200          200           200            -                            200          200
TSP             (kg)      50           50           50           50           25                            130           130
Agro-chemicals:  diasinon           (1)      2.5           2.5          2.5          2.5          1.0                            3.0          3.0
zinc phosphide (gm)    200            200          200          200            -                            200           200
Harvesting     : (Z of crop yield/ha)        3             3            3            3            -                              7             7
Interest /d   :              (%/month)       1             1            1            1            2                              1             1
/a  Costed at Rp 800/day, for animal pair and driver.
/b  TSP - Triple superphosphate.
/c  Rice - interest is charged on 100% (cash inputs - harvesting costs) for 5 months.
Soybean - interest is charged on 90% of cash inputs for 3 months.
/d  Rice - interest is charged on 90% (cash inputs - harvesting costs) for 7 months.
Soybean - interest is charged on 90% of cash inputs for 3 months.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Monthly Labor Requirements (man-days/ha) /a
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.    May   June   July  Aug.   Sept.  Oct.   Nov.   Dec.  Total
SEDEKU
Wet season - Irrigated
Paddy - Area A   - P           40      38      11      27       27    22                                     16      34    215
- w         45      43      42     41        32                                           17      35    255
Paddy - Area B   - P           43      41      33      36       28     3                                     17      35    236
- W         45      43      42      41      32                                            17      35    255
Dry season - Irrigated
Paddy - Area A   - P
Area B   -P                                    9       27    57      42    35       49      18                     237
Paddy - Area A+B - W                                   10       28    60      40    41       58      18                    255
Soybean            -p                                   5       15    14       9      8      17       8                      76
- w                                  7       19    13      10    10       26                              85
Sungai Dare
Wet season
Rainfed paddy    - P           23      21       5      15       14    11                                     10      21    120
Irrigated paddy  - W           28      26       6      20       18    14                                     12      26    150
Dry season
Irrigated paddy  - W                                   12      31    43       12    13       32       7                     150
/a  P = Present, and in future without the project.
W = Future with the project.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Crop Budgets /a
SEDEKU                                      Sungai Dareh
Wet Season                   Dry Season                     Wet Season        Dry Season
Irrigated Paddy  Irrigated Paddy  Irrigated Soybean              Paddy              Paddy
Area A   Area B  Area A   Area B                          Rainfed  Irrigated   Irrigated
Present
Yield (ton/ha)                                                   1.9     3.3                3.5               0.5           1.6
Farm-gate price (Rp '000/ton)                                  65       65                 65               130            65
Gross value of production (Rp '000/ha)                        124      215                228                65           104
Production costs, excluding labor (Rp '000/ha)                 27       43                 39                 7            34
Net value of production, excluding labor (Rp '000/ha)          97      172                189                58            70
Labor requirements (man-days/ha)                              215      236                237                76           120
Future Without Project
Yield (ton/ha)                                                   1.9      3.4               3.6               0.5            1.8
Farm-gate price (Rp '000/ton)                                   79      79                 79               154            79
Gross value of production (Rp '000/ha)                         150     269                284                77           142
Production costs, excluding labor (Rp '000/ha)                 30       56                 51                 9            37
Net value of production, excluding labor (Rp '000/ha)          120     213                233                68           105
Labor requirements (man-days/ha)                              215      236                238                76           120
Future With Project
Yield (ton/ha)                                                   4.0     4.3       4.3      4.3               0.7                        3.7        3.7
Farm-gate price (Rp '000/ton)                                   79      79        79       79               154                         79         79
Gross value of production (Rp '000/ha)                        316      340       340      340               108                        292        292
Production costs, excluding labor (Rp '000/ha)                  67      68        68       68                14                         97         97
Net value of production, excluding labor (Rp '000/ha)    249           272       272      272                94                        195        195
Labor requirements (man-days/ha)                               255     255       255      255                85                        150        150
/a  Fca
/a  Financial prices and costs are used, based on Tables 1-2, and Annex 10, Tables 1-2.                                                                      eD >1



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Farm Budzets La
SEDEKU (0.5 ha farm)
Area A                                                      Area B
p                  Vw                 W                     P                  v            __ _ _
Unit       Own-   Share-      Own-   Share-      Own-   Share-          Own-   Share-      Own-   Share-      Own-   Share-
Oper.  cropper    Oper.  cropper    Oper.  cropper          Oper.  cropper    Oper.  cropper    Oper.  cropper
Paddy - wet season                     ha         0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5          0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5
Paddy - dry season                    ha           -         -        -         -       0.1       0.1          0.07     0.07      0.07      0.07     0.1       0.1
Soybean                               ha          0.05      0.05     0.05      0.05     0.08      0.08         0.08     0.08      0.08      0.08     0.08      0.08
Total cropped area                     ha         0.55      0.55     0.55      0.55     0.68      0.68         0.65     0.65      0.65      0.65      0.68     0.68
Cropping intensity                     X        110       110      110       110       135      135          130      130       130       130       135      135
Total paddy production                tons        0.95      0.95     0.95      0.95      2.43     2.43         1.90      1.90     1.95      1.95      2.58     2.58
Total aoybean production              tons        0.03      0.03     0.03      0.03     0.06      0.06         0.04     0.04      0.04      0.04      0.06     0.06
Gross value of production           Rp '000      65.7      65.7     79.9      79.9    202.0    202.0         128.7    128.7    160.2    160.2    213.8    213.8
Sharecropper's payment to land
owner                             Rp '000 /b    -        28.9       -       35.2       -       88.9           -      56.7        -       70.5       -       94.1
Production costs                    Rp '000      13.7       6.9     15.3       7.6      41.3     20.7         24.6      12.3     32.3      16.1      41.7     20.8
Hired fare labor costs
Harvest                           Rp '000 /c   7.9        7.9      9.6       9.6      24.2     24.2         15.4      15.4     19.2      19.2      25.7     25.7
Other                             Rp '000        -         -        -         -         -        -            -         -        -         -         -
Net value of production              Rp '000     44.1      22.0     55.0      27.5    136.5      68.2         88.7      44.3    108.7      54.4    146.4      73.2
Land tax  xrPEDA)                   Rp '000 /d   1.0         -        1.0       -        5.0       -           2.0        -       2.0        -        5.0        -
Net crop income                      Rp '000     43.1      22.0     54.0      27.5    131.5      68.2         86.7      44.3    106.7      54.4    141.4       73.2
Incremental net crop income
(future with project - future
without project)                  Rp '000        -         -        -         -       77.5     40.7           -         -        -         -       34.7      18.8
La  Financial costs and prices.
/b  Landlord and sharecropper share equally gross production, less harvesting costs, and production costs.  Landlord pays land tax.
/c Nonfamily labor at 12X of gross production.
/d  IPEDA rates in area A of Rp 2,000/ha in the present situation and Rp 10,000 in the future situation with the project.
IPEDA rates in area B of Rp 4,000/ha in the present situation and Rp 10.000 in the future situation with the project.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Farm Budgets /a
SEDEKU (1.5 ha farm)                                                 Sungai Dareh
Area A                                                       Area B                            (1.0 ha farm)
P                 W                   w                     P                   W                   w                 w
Unit     Own-.  Share-    Own-   Share-         Own-   Share-        Own-   Share-        Own-   Share-       Own-   Share-         Owner
Oper.  cropper   Oper.  cropper    Oper.  cropper           Oper.  cropper    Oper.  cropper    Oper.  cropper    Operator
Paddy - wet season              ha         1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5        1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5           1.0
Paddy - dry season              ha          -        -        -         -       0.3       0.3         0.22      0.22      0.22      0.22      0.3       0.3           1.0
Soybean                         ha         0.15    0.15    0.15       0.15      0.23      0.23        0.23      0.23      0.23      0.23      0.23      0.23           -
Total cropped area              ha         1.65    1.65    1.65        1.65      2.03      2.03       1.95      1.95      1.95      1.95      2.03      2.03          2.0
Cropping intensity              X        110     110      110       110       135       135         130       130       130       130       135       135           200
Total paddy production         tons        2.85    2.85    2.85        2.85      7.29      7.29       5.72      5.72      5.89      5.89      7.74      7.74          7.4
Total soybean production    tons           0.08    0.08    0.08        0.08      0.16      0.16       0.11      0.11      0.11      0.11      0.17      0.17           -
Gross value of production  Rp '000   195.7   195.7   238.4    238.4    602.8    602.8               386.1    386.1    482.3    482.3    640.0    640.0              585
Sharecropper's payment to
land
owner                      Rp '000 /b   -       86.1       -      104.9        -      265.3          -     169.9         -      212.2        -      281.6            -
Production costs             Rp '000    41.2    20.6    45.8          22.9     123.8      61.9       74.2      37.1      97.3      48.6     124.8      62.4         194
Hired farm labor costs
Harvest                    Rp '000 /c 23.5    23.5    28.6          28.6      72.3      72.3       46.3      46.3      57.9      57.9      76.8       76.8           -
Other                      Rp '000 /d  8.1       4.1      8.1       4.1       14.5       7.3       13.2       6.6      13.2       6.6      14.5        7.3          9
Net value of production    Rp '000   122.9    61.4   155.9            77.9    392.2    196.0        252.4      126.2   313.9    157.0    423.9    211.9             382
Land tax (IPEDA)              Rp '000 /e  3.0        -       3.0        -       15.0        -         6.0        -        6.0         -       15.0        -           12.0
Net crop income               Rp '000   119.9    61.4   152.9         77.9    377.2    196.0        246.4     126.2    307.9      157.0    408.9    211.9             370
Incremental net crop income
(future with project -
future without project)  Rp '000          -       -        -         -      224.3    118.1           -         -         -         -      101        54.9            -
/a  Financial costs and prices.
/b  Landlord and sharecropper share equally gross production, less harvesting costs, and production costs.  Landlord pays land tax.
/c  Non-family labor at 12% of gross production.
/d  Based on 40 man-days per month maximum availability of family labor.
/e  IPEDA rates in area A of Rp 2,000/ha in the present situation and Rp 10,000/ha in the future situation with the project.
IPEDA rates in area B of Rp 4,000/ha in the present situation and Rp 10,000/ha in the future situation with the project.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Sungai Dareh: Cash Flow for 1.0 ha Irrigated Farm
-________-      --- Year ------------------
0 /a      1      2       3       4       5       6
Crop Production
1.  Irrigated paddy - wet season                     (ha)       -        0       1      1       1       1       1
2.                    - dry season                   (ha)       -        1       1      1       1       1       1
3.  Paddy yield       - wet season              (ton/ha)        -        0    1.8    2.3    2.8    3.2    3.7
4.                    - dry season               (ton/ha)       -      1.8    2.3    2.8    3.2    3.7    3.7
5.  Total paddy production                         (tons)       -      1.8    4.1    5.1    6.0    6.9    7.4
Value of Crop Production
6.  Gross value of production                    (Rp'000)       -      135    324    403    474    545    585
7.  Production costs excluding labor            (Rp'000)        -       86    175    181    186    191    194
8.  Hired farm labor cost                        (Rp'000)       -        0      4       6       8       9       9
9.  Land tax (IPEDA)                             (Rp'000)       -        2       4      6       8      10      12
10.  Value of production less cash costs         (Rp'000)        -       47    141    210    272    335    370
GOI Assistance to Farmers
11.  Food                                         (Rp'000)       -       90       -      -       -       -       -
12.  Seed                                         (Rp'000)       -        5       -      -       -       -       -
13.  Clothing, cooking utensils and tools    (Rp'000)            -       35       -      -       -       -       -
14.  Total                                        (Rp'000)       -      130      -       -       -       -       -
Farm Family Income
15.  Farm income         (10 + 11)                (Rp'000)      87      137    141    210    272    335    370
16.  Off-farm income                              (Rp'000)      50        0       0     10      20      30      30
17.  Total               (15 + 16)                (Rp'000)     137      137    141    220    292    365    400
/a Year 0 represents the present situation. Families would be earning income from farms or from salaries.
rD   t



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Farm Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        Comprehensive and reliable statistics on population and labor force
in the SEDEKU area do not exist. Using data from local government officials,
the rural population in the project area is estimated at 0.5 million. This
consists of about 60,000 farm families and 40,000 landless laborers families.
Assuming each family supplies two full-time workers, the total number of farm
workers is 200,000. If each worker is available to work 240 days per year,
or 20 days a month, the present total annual labor supply is 48.0 million
man-days. The rural labor force is growing at an estimated rate of 2% per
year. Assuming that the rural work force continues to grow at this rate, the
rural labor force would total 244,000 in 1986 at full project development.
This is equivalent to 58.6 million man-days a year, or 4.9 million man-days a
month.
Labor Requirements
2.        Annex 11, Table 4 gives estimates of average monthly and annual
labor requirements per ha for the various crops. Labor requirements in the
future without the project would remain at present levels. With the project,
however, due to better water control, crop management techniques and higher
yields, labor requirements would increase for weeding, fertilizer and pesticide
applications, irrigation, harvesting and threshing. They would decrease for
planting on the area now flooded annually (9,000 ha).
3.        Table 1 gives estimates of the total monthly and annual labor
requirements. At SEDEKU the present annual requirements are 7.8 million
man-days, or only 16% of the estimated labor supply. With full development of
the project, annual labor requirements would reach 9.6 million man-days, still
only 16% of the projected labor supply. Without the project, however, the
situation would be considerably worse with only 13% of the available labor
being utilized. On a monthly basis, the demand for labor fluctuates consid-
erably and has a distinct seasonal pattern. The labor utilization rate
varies from 30% during the peak month (January) to less than 5% during the
month with the lowest labor requirement (October).
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
4.        Detailed information on wages actually paid in the project areas is
limited. Even if it were available, wages paid probably would not reflect
the true cost of labor to the economy, for much of the work is done by
unpaid family labor or in exchange for work done by other farmers. In
addition, wage rates are frequently set by custom rather than market forces,



ANNEX 12
Page 2
and labor mobility is limited. Therefore, the economic cost of labor can be
only roughly approximated. The average peak wage rate is Rp 220/man-day in
SEDEKU. However, unemployment is substantial even during the peak season, and
this rate most probably does not reflect the economic cost of labor. Rather,
it may be that social custom and a recognition by employers of the laborer's
subsistence needs that supports wages at this level. Data on non-peak wages
and on wages available from alternative types of employment during this
period are also limited; generally, however, these wages are lower than peak
season wages, and undoubtedly, the cost of labor to the economy is lower
during these periods than during the peak season.
5.        The following analysis attempts to estimate an opportunity cost of
labor in the project areas, taking into account generally prevailing rural
unemployment and the large seasonal fluctuation in labor requirements. It
does not attempt to adjust for intertemporal or interpersonal income distri-
bution effects nor to value leisure. The marginal opportunity cost of farm
labor in the project areas can be approximated by S-shaped curves (Chart
17046).
6.        Three straight-line segments can reasonably approximate the
S-shaped curve and three points determine the curve's position. Point A on
the chart represents the minimum opportunity cost of farm labor and includes
the economic value of alternative employment (casual non-farm labor, fishing,
house repairs), plus the value of additional food required because of the
more strenuous farm work with the project. The mission estimates this oppor-
tunity cost at Rp 100 per man-day. Point B indlicates where the opportunity
cost equals the market wage and rural labor is fully employed. That point is
at Rp 220 per man-day. Point C indicates the point at which the wage rate is
sufficiently high that laborers are attracted to meet increases in require-
ments, thus, to the right of this point, the opportunity cost and market wage
remain constant. This wage is estimated at Rp 250 per man-day.
7.        The monthly marginal opportunity cost is read from the curve at the
corresponding level of labor requirement. With the project at full develop-
ment, the opportunity costs vary from Rp 100 per man-day to Rp 110 per
man-day. The total economic cost of farm labor is the area under the curve
at each level of employment. The total incremental economic cost of farm
labor (difference between the total economic cost of farm labor in the future
"without" and "with" project) is shown in Table 2, as is the total incremental
labor requirement, together giving an average shadow wage rate of Rp 106 per
man-day in the SEDEKU area.
8.        Farm labor was not shadow-priced at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung since
farmers would be fully employed throughout the year developing their farms
and double-cropping irrigated paddy. Few, if any, landless laborers would
live in the project area. The average market wage rate is Rp 350/man-day,
and was used in valuing farm labor throughout the year.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Total Monthly Labor Requirement ('000 man-day)
Area      Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May    June   July   Aug.   Sep.   Oct.   NOv.   Dec.  Total
(ha)
SEDEKI
Present (- Future without project)
Wet season
Paddy - Area A         9,000      360    343    100    242    242    198                                       145    305   1,935
Area B       21,000       903    860    693    755    588        64                                   358    735   4,956
Dry season
Paddy - Area A           -
Area B        2,600                               23     70    148    110       91    128       46                     616
Soybean                4,000                              20      59      56     36      32      68     33                     304
Total           36,600    1,263  1,203    793  1,040    959    466    146    123    196            79    503  1,040   7,811
Future with project
Wet season
Paddy - Area A         9,000      405    387    378    370    287                                              153    315   2,295
Area B       21,000       945    903    882    860    673                                             357    735   5,355
Dry season
Paddy - Area A&B       6,000                              60    168    360    240    246    348    108                        1,530
Soybean                4,500                              32      85      58     46      46    116                              383
Total           40,500    1,350  1,290  1,260  1,322  1,213    418    286    292    464    108    510  1,050   9,563
Sunaai Dareh
Present (- Future without Project)
Wet season
Rainfed Paddy          1,500        34     32       7      22     21      17                                     15     32      180
Future with project
Wet season
Irrigated paddy        3,500        98     91      21     70      63      49                                    42      91      525
Dry season
Irrigated paddy        3,500                               42    108    151       42     45    112       25                     525
Total            7,000        98      91     21    112    171    200        42      45    112      25      42      91   1,050



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Economic Cost of Farm Labor at SEDEKU at Full Project Development (1986)
Jan      Feb       Mar       Apr      May       Jun       Jul      Aug       Sep       Oct       Nov      Dec    Total
Labor requirement                  W /a   1,350    1,290    1,260    1,322    1,213          418       286       292       464      108       510    1,050    9,563
('000 man-days)                  W /b   1,263    1,203        793    1,040       959       466       146      123       196        79       503    1,040    7,811
Marginal opportunity cost          W         110       109      109       110       109      102       101       101       103       100      103       108
(Rp/man-day)                     W         109      109       104       107      107       103       100      100       100       100       103       108
Economic cost of farm labor        W         141.7    134.8    131.7    138.8    126.8        42.2      28.7      29.3      47.1      10.8     51.8    109.2    992.9
(Rp million)                     W         132.0    125.7      80.9    107.6      99.3      47.3      14.6      12.3     19.6       7.9      51.0    108.2    806.4
Incremental economic cost         W-W          9.7       9.1     50.8      31.2      27.5     -5.1      14.1      17.0      27.5       2.9      0.7       1.0    186.5
of farm labor (Rp million)
/a W = Future with proiect.
/b  W - Future without project, which is the same as the present situation (Annex 12, Table 1).
I



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Economic Analysis
Foreign Exchange
1.        Due to the existence of import taxes, quantitative restrictions
and export subsidies, the official exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1 misstates
the economic value to the economy of foreign exchange used in carrying out
the project and savings through increased food grain production. Using the
Squire-van der Tak approach,/1 the estimated standard conversion factor for
Indonesia is 0.8. This rate (Rp 520 = US$1.00) was used in the economic
analysis.
Benefits
2.        Expected cropping patterns and agricultural production are shown
in Annex 2. Farm-gate prices for rice, soybean and fertilizer, both for the
present and the future, are calculated in Annex 10, while crop production
costs are reflected in Annex 11. Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex show the net
return to the areas (without costing farm labor) in the future "with" and
"without" the project. Incremental farm labor cost is shown in Table 2 of
Annex 12.
3.        Additional future benefits would accrue to the project in the
SEDEKU area as a result of reduced flood damage to fishponds. On the assump-
tion that on average 500 ha, or 25%, of the total area of fishponds is
inundated during the wet season and 50% of the crop is lost, the incremental
net return to the area is Rp 25 million at full project development./2 This
is reflected in Table 3 of this Annex.
Investment Costs
4.        Investment costs are expressed in end-1977 prices and, as calculated
for the economic analysis, have been adjusted to exclude taxes, transfer pay-
ments and price contingencies. In addition, adjustment has been made to the
/1 L. Squire and H.G. van der Tak; Economic Analysis of Project; Baltimore
and London, The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1975.
/2 Using a 1985 fish price of Rp 330/kg at the fishpond (in constant 1977
prices); and a wet-season yield without the project of 150 kg/ha, and
with the project of 300 kg/ha, the gross value of production without the
project would be Rp 49,500/ha, and with the project Rp 99,000/ha.
Allowing for a production cost of Rp 43,000/ha with or without the
project, the net value of production without the project is Rp 6,500/ha,
and with the project Rp 56,000/ha. Rounding to the nearest Rp 1,000/ha,
Rp 50,000/ha is the value of incremental production with the project.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
capital costs of the SEDEKU project to reflect the use of unskilled labor in
off-season periods (civil works cost reduced by 5%), while the capital costs
of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung project have been reduced by Rp 1,600 million to
reflect the fact that Rp 1,210 million of consulting services and Rp 390
million of equipment (water pump) should be charged to the main project of
20,000 ha. Food, clothing, equipment and seed aid to farmers, costing Rp 260
million, and farmers' own investment in land leveling costing Rp 105 million,
were added to Sungai Dareh-Sitiung project costs. Actual investment costs
used in the analysis are Rp 14.3 billion for SEDEKU, and Rp 4.8 billion for
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. The foreign exchange component of the investment costs
is converted to Rupiah at the shadow foreign exchange rate. Annual O&M costs
of the SEDEKU area are estimated at Rp 6,000/ha, at full development, while
O&M costs of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung irrigation system are estimated at
Rp 5,000/ha/year.
Development Period
5.        Construction of both projects will be phased over a period of four
years starting in the Indonesian Government's EY 1977/78. It is envisaged
that 20% of the two project areas will become ciperational in 1979/80, 40% by
1980/81, 70% by 1981/82, and 100% by 1982/83. Full project benefits should
be achieved by 1986/87, ten years after the commencement of construction.
Economic Rate of Return
6.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting project benefits
and costs over a 30-year period, the economic rate of return is 15% for the
SEDEKU area and 18% for the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area (Table 4).
Sensitivity Analysis
7.        Some of the basic assumptions made in the economic analysis have
been varied in order to examine their impact on the rates of return of the
two projects. The effects of the various assumptions as to prices, implemen-
tation, costs and yields are given below:



ANNEX 13
Page 3
Sungai
SEDEKU    Dareh-Sitiung
_ (%)             
Best estimate                                              18             15
Construction costs overrun estimates by 20%                16             13
Two-year delay in the realization of benefits              15             11
Construction costs overrun 20%, and benefits
delayed two years                                      13             10
Benefits reduced by 20%                                    15             12
Benefits increased by 20%                                  21             17
Farm labor valued at market wage rate                      17
Foreign exchange costs valued at the official
exchange rate                                          16             12
8.        The figures indicate that the rates of return of both projects are
most sensitive to a delay in the realization of benefits and to a lesser
extent to an overrun of construction costs. Valuation of farm labor at the
market wage rate does not substantially affect the rate of return of the
SEDEKU project. Valuation of foreign exchange costs at the official exchange
rate of US$1 = Rp 415 would reduce the rates of return by between 2% and 3%.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Economic Analysis: Projected Future Production Without the Project
Cropped              Farm-gate         Gross Value of    Production   Net Value of           Net
Area     Yield       Price             Production           Costs       Production        Return
(ha)    (ton/ha) (Rp '000/ton) /a -------------(Rp '000/ha) /b ------                  (Rp million)
SEDEKU
Wet season
Paddy - Area A       9,000       1.9           99                 188                30            158            1,422
Paddy - Area B      21,000       3.4            99                337                62            275            5,775
Dry season
Paddy - Area B       2,600       3.6            99                356                57            299              777
Soybean              4,000       0.5           194                 97                10             87              348
Total          36,600                                                                                       8,322
Sungai Dareh
Wet season
Rainfed paddy        1,500       1.8           91                 164                37            127              191
Total           1,500                                                                                          191
/a  Economic prices from Annex 10.                                
/b  Based on Annex 11, Table 2; excludes the cost of labor.                                                                 ( x
LO'-



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Economic Analysis: Projected Future Production at Full Project Development (1986)
Cropped              Farm-gate        Gross Value of    Production   Net Value of          Net
Area     Yield       Price            Production          Costs       Production        Return
(ha)    (ton/ha) (Rp '000/ton) /a -      ------(Rp '000/ha) /b -                    (Rp million)
SEDEKU
Wet season
Paddy - Area A       9,000       4.0          99                 396               74            322           2,898
Paddy - Area B      21,000       4.3           99                426               75            351           7,371
Dry season
Paddy - Area A&B    6,000        4.3          99                 426               75            351           2,106
Soybean              4,500       0.7         194                 136               15            121              545
Total          40,500                                                                                    12,920
Sungai Dareh
Wet season
Irrigated paddy      3,500      3.7           91                 337              105            232             812
Dry season
Irrigated paddy      3,500      3.7           91                 337              105            232             812
Total           7,000                                                                                     1,624
/a  Economic prices from Annex 10.
/b  Based on Annex 11, Table 3; excludes cost of labor.                                                                    D



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Economic Analysis: Incremental Net Value of Agricultural Production at Full Project Development
(Rp million)
Net Return to Project Area         Incremental      Less Incremental    Plus Incremental Net   Incremental Net Value
Without Costing Farm Labor /a    Net Return         Farm Labor Cost       Return to Fishponds          of Production
Without           With
Project          Project
SEDEKU
8,322           12,920             4,598               186 /b                    25                      4,437
Sungai Dareh
191           1,624              1,433               305 /c                     _                      1,128
/a From Annex 13, Tables 1 and 2.
/b Incremental labor requirements from Annex 12, Table 1, costed at shadow wage rate of Rp 106/man-day as cal-
culated in Annex 12.
/c Incremental labor requirements from Annex 12, Table 1, costed at actual wage rate of Rp 350/man-day as
calculated in Annex 12.
rD X



ANNEX 13
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rp million)
Irrigation System            Year               Project Cost          Project Benefits
Capital   O&M    Total        (Incremental)
SEDEKU:
1   (1977/78)      2,123       0    2,123                0
2   (1978/79)    4,983         0    4,983                0
3   (1979/80)      4,983      35    5,018              178
4   (1980/81)      2,215      72    2,287             534
5   (1981/82)          0    125        125          1,158
6   (1982/83)          0    180        180          2,049
7   (1983/84)          0    180        180          2,940
8   (1984/85)          0    180        180          3,652
9   (1985/86)          0    180        180          4,187
10-30   (1986-2006)        0    180        180           4,437
Economic Rate of Return                                    18%
Sungai Dareh:
1   (1977/78)        665       0       665              0
2   (1978/79)      1,660       0    1,660               0
3   (1979/80)      1,660       3    1,663              45
4   (1980/81)        765       7       772            135
5   (1981/82)          0      12        12            295
6   (1982/83)          0      17        17            520
7   (1983/84)          0      17        17            755
8   (1984/85)          0      17        17            935
9   (1985/86)          0      17        17          1,070
10-30   (1986-2006)        0      17        17          1,128
Economic Rate of Return                                    15%



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Cost and Benefit Recovery
1.        The annex examines the implications for public revenues and
farmers' incomes of the Government's policies towrards the recovery of the
capital and recurrent costs of the project. In determining the extent of
cost recovery and the relation of project charges to benefits, two indices
have been used, which are defined as follows for the present project.
(a) Cost Recovery Index: the ratio of the present worth of
incremental project charges paid by project farmers to the
present worth of incremental project construction and
operation and maintenance costs; and
(b) Rent Recovery Index: the ratio of the present worth of
incremental project charges paid by a typical farm family
to the present worth of incremental "project rent" accruing
to the family before paying project charges, where "project
rent" is defined as net incremental income less incremental
value of family labor, general taxes, returns to management,
and incremental investments, and allowances for uncertainty and
miscellaneous costs.
The upper limit of the rent recovery index is 100%, but it would normally be
less than that because of political difficulties, tax disincentives, and the
cost of collecting the taxes. Rent is a difficult concept to measure in
practice but an attempt is made to determine reasonable quantitative esti-
mates of its various components based on qualitative considerations.
2.        All water charges, costs and benefits are measured at present
values discounted at 10% annual rate of interest over the 30-year evaluation
period of the project, and expressed in terms of end-1977 constant prices.
Costs and benefits represent financial flows.
3.        Farmers pay a land tax (IPEDA), and water charges for the O&M of
the tertiary unit. Incremental IPEDA can be considered a direct project tax,
which contributes towards the O&M, plus capital repayments, on the main
irrigation system. The IPEDA rate varies depending on the quality of the
main irrigation system. Similarly, the tertiary/quaternary unit water charge
would vary according to the development of the tertiary unit.
Cost Recovery
4.        SEDEKU.  In the cost recovery analysis, US$32.0 million construction
costs are charged against the SEDEKU project. Annual incremental O&M costs
would average Rp 2,500 (US$6)/ha for the main irrigation system. At full



ANNEX 14
Page 2
project development, annual incremental project charges would be Rp 10,500
(US$25)/ha. Discounted at 10%, the present value of incremental construction
and O&M costs are US$25.4 million, and incremental project charges US$4.8
million, giving a 19% cost recovery index.
5.        Sungai Dareh-Sitiung.  US$10.0 million construction costs are
charged against the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung irrigation project. Annual incre-
mental O&M costs would average Rp 5,000 (US$12)/ha for the main system. At
full project development, annual incremental project charges would be
Rp 14,900 (US$36)/ha. Discounted at 10%, the present value of incremental
construction and O&M costs are US$7.9 million, and incremental project
charges US$0.8 million, giving a 10% cost recovery index.
Rent Recovery
6.        SEDEKU.  Rent recovery indices were calculated for both owner-
operators and sharecroppers on 0.5 ha and 1.0 ha farms. Separate recovery
indices were calculated for farms situated in areas susceptible to regular
flooding (Area A) and for farms situated in areas which are flooded less
frequently (Area B). Table 1 lists the assumptions used in calculating
project rent. Discounting incremental project rent and charges at 10% over
30 years, the rent recovery indices vary from 68% to 98% for owner-operators;
and 38% to 62% for sharecroppers (Table 1).
7.        Sungai Dareh-Sitiung.  Similarly, at Sungai Dareh a rent recovery
index was calculated for an owner-operator on a 1.0 ha farm. The rent
recovery index is 91% (Table 1).
8.        No increase is proposed in the projected land taxes and water
charges farmers would pay under the project. Even though the cost recovery
indices are low, estimated project charges are considered satisfactory in
both areas since firstly some 90% of the SEDEKU project area's farm families
presently have per capita incomes below the absolute poverty level of US$95
(1975 prices). At full project development some 70% of all farm families'
per capita incomes would still be below this figure. Besides paying a
substantial total land tax, Rp 10,000 (US$24)/ha, irrigators would pay at
least 10% of their gross value of production in village taxes (Table 1). As
well, they would contribute to the social life and welfare of the village
through religious taxes and compulsory feasts. Secondly, at Sungai Dareh-
Sitiung most farmers would be transmigrants who initially would have to
develop their land for paddy production. Moderate project charges would
assist farmers' early cash flows, and encourage full development of the
area.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Rent Recovery (Rp '000)
SEDElU                                             Sungai Dareh /a
0.5 ha Farm                                     1.5 ha Farm                     1.0 ha Farm
Area A                  Area B                  Area A                  Area B
Own. Oper.  Sharecr.  Own. Oper.  Sharecr.  Own. Oper.  Sharecr.  Own. Oper.  Sharecr.    Own. Oper.
A. At Full Project Development
Incremental /b - gross value of farm production            122.1       61.1        53.6         26.8        364.4      182.2        157.7        78.8         425
- less cash production costs               40.6       20.3        15.9           7.9        128.1       64.1        47.7        23.8         152
Equals net cash income                                      81.5       40.8        37.7         18.9        236.3       118.1       110.0        55.0         273
- less imputed family labor value /c    12.3           12.3         4.9          4.9         36.5       36.5        14.1        14.1           53
- less imputed farmer's management /d   12.2            6.1         5.4          2.7         36.4       18.2        15.8          7.9          43
- less imputed return on own capital /e  3.6           0.6          2.4          0.6         10.7        1.7         7.1          1.7           8
- less allowance for risks /f              24.4       12.2        10.8           5.4         72.8       36.4        31.6        15.8           85
- less miscellaneous /g                     18.3        3.1         8.0          1.3         54.7        9.1        23.7          3.9          64
Equals project rent                                         10.7        6.5         6.2          4.0          25.2       16.2        17.7        11.6          20
Incremental direct charges /h                                6.0        2.0         5.0          2.0         17.9         5.9        14.9         5.9          15
B. Discounted Flows Over Prolect Life aL
Project rent                                                56.9       34.6        33.0         21.3        134.0        86.2        94.2        61.7         105
Direct charges                                              39.0       13.0        32.5         13.0         116.3       38.3        90.4        38.3           96
Rent recovery (X)                                           68         38          98           61            87         44          96          62             91
lA In calculating the incremental value of production/costs/allowances of farm production for the Suagai Dareh area, in the vithout project situation
the farmer was assumed to have a 0.5 ha farm in the Wonogiri area with characteristics identical to the 0.5/"B" type in the the SEDEKU area.
/b  Future with project minus future without project.
/c  At Rp 220/man-day in SEDEKU, at Rp 350/man-day in Sungai Dareh.
/d  At 10% of gross incremental value of production.
/e  At 10% of farmer's own incremental capital.
/f  Estimated at 20%,of gross incremental value of production.
JA  At 15% of gross incremental value of production, including 10% as taxes for village administration and 5% for storage losses; sharecroppers would
not pay any incremental villages taxes.
Lh  Incremental water charges (Rp 3,900/ha) and additional land tax (IPEDA); sharecroppers do not pay land tax.
Ji  Net present value of project rent and incremental charges, discounted at 10% per year over the project life (30 years).



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT IX
PROSIDA SUB-PROJECT ORGANIZATION
SEDEKU PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT           L             ..f             .    PROVINCIAL
|     MANAGER                                                ADVISORY GROUP
*
2/
CONSULTING                              k             DEPUTY SUB-PROJECT
ENGINEERS                                                 MANAGER
1/                                              DEPUTY   2/                                               DEPUTY
DEPUTY O & M                                              ENGINEERING                                             ADMINISTRATION
2/                2/                                                         2/                2/
SURVEY & -                            MEHNCL 
DESIGN        CONSTRUCTION               UNIT         ADMINISTRATION        FINANCE         COMPTROLLER
O & M SECTIONS
1/ PROVINCIAL STAFF
2/ PROSIDASTAFF
VVorld Bank--8964



INDONESIA IRRIGATION PROJECT IX
PROSIDA
MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
DIR, GENERAL
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOP.
.  EN MAA.           
1I3I~T~I.I1I...      POSI
ASST~~~. TO TH1
GEN.~~~~~~~             ~EXET MAAG  SUEV C*ST  SURVEYG.__               OVSfl  ROP
BUIDIG/AG           DEIG                       HDROOIOGA
CHIEF                                  CHIEF                   CHIEF
ENGINEERING                             OP. 1 MAIN.             ADMINISTR.
DEPUTY, CHIEF          DEPUTY CHIEF
ENG./CONSTRUC.         ENG./SURV.-DES.
COASST. TO THE     SUB. POJEC          SB P       SJET     SUB P            ASST. FOROJEC           FSU. FOR
GEN. MANAG    _    ESUERV. REST                            BSERIE              CSI. &. M.           -ER                RENANC
ASST. FOR  l    AkSST. FOR   l  LWASST. FOR                            B   1FOR
-L  BUILDIN/FAC. |    7  ESG                     HYDROLOG.  |             E.AFFAIR 
7 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ST FOR.FO 
|CONSULTANT           SUB. PROJECT'|  |SB PROJECTS |      |SUB. PROJECTS |    |SBPRJC|             |SUB RRJC             CONSULTANT|
|FOR MADIUN:   (E-SERIES)              A-SERIES      |    |B-SERIES              C_ E C-SRIE   DSRES                     FO | CRENTANG
World Bank- 16008



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT IX
WATER RESOURCES ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
IAND ELECTRIC POWER
I
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT
~~~SECR ETAR I AT
H-                                                         I      I D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~IRECTORATE OF I IDIRECTORATE OFI
DPLRORANNING A         DIRECTORATE          DIRECTORATE OF          DIRECTORATE            IRRIGATIO              RESEARCH OF
PW ATPROSIBDA
World Bank-16017



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
Estimated Opportunity Cost for Farm Labor
250r                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~Semarang -Kudus
250                                                                                                                                                9-
3  200
E
150
'2  150 _                                                                                           ,.- 
0 
100  A. ..    .....        ........
CO  l
CL
0,
c
50
1.0GlD-                  2.0                      3.0                   -40                          5L                  -     0.6
Farm Labor Utilization (million man-days/month)
World Bank-17046



INDONESIA
IFtRIGATION IX
SUNGAI DAREH PROJECT ORGANIZATION
(DIRECTOR OF
IRRIGATION)
JAKARTA
JAKARTA OFFICE
FIELD OFFICE
SUB-PROJECT
MANAGER
ASSISTANT FOR             ASSISTANT FOR
FIELD                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENGINEERING  ADMINISTRATIONTRAUE
SURVEY &  CONSTRUC-         --        GNRL
DESIGN    TION             FINANCE   AFIS
ENIGINEERS                          IERENINEERS
World Bank-17134



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
SUNGAI DAREH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
78/78                 78/79                  79/80                  80/81
___IAl01 DiFl              J  A  0       F  Al 1i Al 101 IDI Fl A i            101 D1 IFlI
Engagement of Consultants
Consultant's Inception Report
Detailed Engineering, 3500 ha
Procurement of Vehicles                                   -
Procurement of Pumps, Generators
& Construction & 0 & M Equipment                               _
Primary & Secondary Canals
Earthwork                                                                                                              -
Structures                                                                                _._._._                       .       -
Tertiary Development
Earthwork                                                                                                              -
Structures                                                                                          -       -                    -
Primary & Secondary Drains
Earthwork
Structures                                                                                                                       -
Inspection & Access Roads                              -
Pumping Station
Civil Works                                                                                _
Electrical & Mechanical Works                                                                        - __
Telephone Communication Lines                                        _                                             -               -
0 & M Staff Housing                                                                                                       -
Feasibility Study, 16,500 ha                                      _
Detailed Engineering, 16,500 ha
Wet Season
World Bank-17255



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION IX
SEDEKU PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
77/78                   78/79                  79/80                    80/81
__A         0   D   F  A  1   A        0  IF    lJ  A  101 I IF_            JI IAI 10  lD  IF
Primary & Secondary Canals
Earthwork
Structures
Tertiary Development
Earthwork
Structures
Canal & Riverbank Protectionn
Flood Channels & Drains
Earthwork 
Structures--
Flood Emba nkments-
Inspection Roads
Telephone Communication Lines--                                                                                                           -
0 & M Staff Housing--
Procurement of Vehicles & Equipment
WVet Season
World Bank-1 7256



IBRDl 2~.
)   1008      ! .,5 :_ '=7 ': i .1l50ii :;i';1 z            106o                          109-                          rC,      Arc a, -YSIA                                     BRUNE96 1W,,e  C             P PHILIPPINES       MARSCH 15
?5reMfWeCee.~~~~~       Pe~~AElAYSlA ~~BRUNEI-'~r,1
MA~~                                                                                            ~           ~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,  ____   A
g                              li!Ns;1   q  ;7i K {,; 1~~~~M               --Q t; ,w9i                           . = 6| bSINGAPORE <!-  AU
I                  P0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     AU
\  =  NGAPORE                                                                                                                                  Klhr-ont-n   -                                        NEW
-~~ '5tEj el!:Si!;;,;; j~~~~0;                                       M     g    ;   .>  ,\,.!11,.1  > Suagwesi                                                    I       r       on 
0'                       Poeorb0~>'  ;                                                                                                                                                                                                          Joyo 
.   Po dong               '         h                                                                         K A    L I   M   A  N  T  A  N              115'                \C18'                                    12PG
\         9X~~~Mo~rcto                                                                                                                                                                          ofe o                           r-e?k 
a     %            l>T~~~~~~e 010 H.uCo                                                                                                                       B d CkpopneeP:_                                   
P.d~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pl
(ins                    IPnkliog(no                                                                                                                              auo:         <f
-1-   X    S U - M%A T E  R A             BANGKA                                              A  L            A          A1                                                                                  nodele
BANGKA
BELITUNG                                                                      fMo
Lubukl Wfig,      ;       SS  U  L AW    E  S  I                                                                                                                                                                            -
\e~g0oIo   CN                                                                                                                         Sdng  __  Nt J
\/   0                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sub-prlej-t  Pgr6ppre.  K.I.k.
a   Cjmenggala /CtuIons                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~54,600 h.i) 
Woy Sepoih        C       / 24,300 Z        JodIhor Project
Subli. Ir       Le. W         ID   )O,d SIJ -1-/253,000 ho/
INDONESIA                   25,000 h.                     s/IC         /            CirebonSub-pro1ent                                                                                 ClungPadoeg         0mb,
Toniungkowng~+   CS.b-pn -                /88,000 h. 
9° IRRIGATION    PROJECT    IX                                    A            00 (42booh.  .....g / oDml-cml                           cyKer
IRC IrrunehtiProlect    Scb.pro1cCEl                     rerongOy_{                                                               IHO 92,000hg/  |edong   Cesro:ooLlohet  Gi ' -',dy ".
'i I,igwi- RehEbilRSat,U A P,.j.& TX                                         92,0<0 h                   GI.|-eb.d \0
Roods ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4}~~~~~23,5 h.                                                  -- 00MADURA
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Od,6C0"hab                               S YCE. "d-l J b >
°~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,0 P00   20   30
100        l03                                Ioo                             104                            1'2                            115                             118                              1?l-~~~~~~5,80 I~



IBRD 12642
mALAYA                                 MARCH 19771
SARAWAK5
N0~~~~~  ~~   d R~~~~o~~ o~~ol 1i~~~~~y                      4     J,5~~~INGAPORE ~~--~-
d,~~ 1~~O~~OH~ Wv~~~d 1~~ A  ~~ ~                                      KALIMANTAN
~ WhI~ Ch~ ~OO5X~ A~#'.,''                                                                             SULAWESI
~V A
BARANG WEIR     JEAGUNGW                    <> W;;R \t;0 \000 \000
INDONESIA                             ..\/*
IRRIGATION PROJECT IX                                                                                          LAAWI
SEDEKU SUBPROJECT                                                              /
EAST SEDEKU IRRIGATION SYSTEMS|
Mlain Canals                           :f: St D.l. Glapan Barat (SI4OHa( 
Secondary Canals                                 D.l Guntur (1937 Ha) 
; vE :Flood Control and Drainage Works        _       D.l. Ketitang (849Ha) 
--Access and Inspection Road Improvement              D.l. Glapan Setu (1545 Ha)
=E- Rivers and Drains                                Di  DlPolder Batu (470 Ha)
Roods                                  I. .-::.D.l. Penggaron (4590 Ha)
b.______ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~oKuu
Railways                                  ... D.l. Dolok (1956Ha)                   0       2       4      6       8      1p
~~*Weirs                                              '.-. D.l. Prauwvaart (4300)       ......... KILOMETERS
d                 o
emadbuk n  fille



INDONESIA                                                                Irrigation Canals and Structures
IDDI(2ATIC~~~~~~~~~~~NI  TV ~~~~Resettlement Villages
IRRIGATION                   PROJECT         E                       |                    Resettlement Rice Fields
X9      K .SUNGAI DAREH SUBPROJECT                                                                                j                   i Indigenous Villages
NX\&;  ..  r l     i Indigenous Rice Fields
Berebusong   ~    >          \.J      S                                                                                               -Upland Fields
Roads
~ ~-  /5iunUog   Kp Pulai                                                            {          - ~ .-    Rivers
0    .              2        3         4
KILOMETERS
BOtu
. izal
Kp.SungadIo   a                                                           __                /
,\~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -T I                                                           --1
:______                                                                                                                  p - - ~ '\ ; iKotoboringin
. .   j .  -'     XTumang:
TIIAvANO~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~. ,, ,.    t. 
Sipcngkur
S,PHLIPPIESI( ' __\
INGAPORE
KALIMANTAN
SULAWFSI
g s_ \\ , ,,>JA                             \                                                                                                               -
_,,    bofele                                .             /I' A,.k,,/,1,,Ai,A,,                                                                          4'



