Document of
FILE COPY                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2077-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEI
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NINTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 16, 1977
This document has a restricted distributlon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bak authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1          =  Rp 415
1 Rp          =  $0.0024
1 million Rp  =  $2,410
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIMAS     -  Bimingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan
"Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs",
a farm input-credit package program
BUUD      -  Badan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village
Unit Cooperative
DGWRD     -  Director(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
DOI       -  Directorate of Irrigation
INPRES    -  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
a rural public works program
IPEDA     -  Iuran Penbangunan Dearah - Land Tax
KUD       -  Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
O&M       -  Operation and maintenance
PROSIDA   -  Proyek Irigasi IDA - Agency of DGWRD created to execute
Bank-assisted projects
SEDEKU    -  Semarang-Demak-Kudus Irrigation System in Central Java
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
NINTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommenLdation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $35 million to help
finance a Ninth Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.20% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Recent
Developments and Medium-Term Perspective," of March 8, 1977 (1516-IND)
described the recovery of the economy from the world recession and the
financial troubles of Pertamina, the state oil company, and examined some
of the important development issues which the country faces in the next few
years.
3.        During Indonesia's First Development Plan period (1969/70-1973/74)/1,
the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy was almnost completed. Transport,
power, irrigation works and other infrastructure facilities, after years of
neglect, were greatly improved and strengthened. Agricultural output expan-
ded at an average rate of 4.5% a year and foundations of modern industry -
fertilizer, cement, etc. - were laid. During this period, the annual rate
of economic growth exceeded 7.5%; domestic savings and investment also rose
rapidly. With the start of the Second Development Plan period (1974/75-
1978/79), the Government expected that rehabilitation would be completed and
a start made on a course of long-term development whiich would assure not only
a satisfactory rate of economic growth but also a wider distribution of
income. The first two years of the Plan were dominated by the developments
in the oil sector - the sharp increase in the price of oil and Pertamina's
serious financial difficulties. The latter arose from Pertamina's under-
taking of a large and diversified investment program without arranging
satisfactory financing. With the onset of the world recession, bank credit
became much more restrictive. Pertamina was unable to roll over its short-
term debt and failed to meet the financial obligations which were falling
due. In the event, the Government stepped in and undertook to honor the oil
company's obligations. The repayment of these obligations, along with the
fall in export earnings as a result of the recession, necessitated large
foreign commercial borrowing, seriously strained the Government's budgetary
resources and Indonesia's balance of payments, and led to a sharp decline in
the foreign exchange reserves.
/1 Indonesian fiscal year April 1 to March 31.
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanco
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4.        During 1976/77 Indonesia's exports recovered strongly following
improvements in the world economy, and rose to a level higher than expected
earlier. Imports continued to increase rapidly, but the rate of price
increase slowed down and Indonesia's terms of trade improved. Most of
Pertamina's short-term debt had been repaid by the end of 1975/76, and
disbursements on foreign borrowing continued to be high in 1976/77. As a
result, Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves rose to a more comfortable
level, i.e. $1.2 billion at the end of 1976 (and even higher levels in recent
months) corresponding to about two months of imports.
5.        The Government's budgetary position was also much better in 1976/77.
With the boost in oil exports and a further renegotiation of oil contracts,
oil revenues rose by close to 40%. Non-oil revenues also rose over and above
the amounts budgeted, mainly as a result of Government efforts to curb
smuggling and a more rigorous collection of customs duties. The additional
revenues together with continued restraint in increasing current expenditures
enabled the Government not only to increase development expenditures substan-
tially but also to repay the debt to Bank Indonesia, which it had incurred in
the previous year. This helped to neutralize the monetary expansion on
account of the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves. The rate of
inflation over the year decreased, from a high of 17% in the first quarter to
only a modest increase in the last two quarters of 1976/77, giving an average
increase of less than 15% for the year as a whole.
6.        In 1976, the domestic economy recovered in other respects also.
The available indicators suggest that industrial output and private invest-
ment rose faster than in the previous two years. The output and prices of
tree crops rose with foreign demand, thus raising the incomes of the producers.
This provided a welcome relief to the small producers, who had suffered from
the declining foreign prices of their produce combined with rising domestic
prices of consumer goods. However, the production of food crops slackened
and rice output failed to rise appreciably for the second year in succession.
The domestic price of rice was kept stable by means of very substantial
imports, which reached 1.6 million tons (about 10% of domestic consumption)
in 1976/77. Early in the year floods, and later on drought, affected both
the wet season and dry season harvests. More importantly, a pest infesta-
tion afflicted large areas in Java, particularly those planted with the high
yielding varieties of rice, and the area under BINAS and INHAS (the two
credit extension schemes for rice growers) remained fairly constant over the
last three years following a rapid increase during the First Development
Plan period. Rice output also failed to increase because the use of fertil-
izer did not rise despite ample availability. The Government has now relaxed
controls on the distribution of fertilizer and set its fertilizer/rice
price ratio at a level that should encourage fertilizer use.
7.          The large increase in the oil revenues over the past three years
has been invested, not consumed. Government development expenditures more
than quadrupled over this period and in 1976/77 amounted to Rp 2 trillion
(or about $5 billion); even after allowing for the high rate of inflation
development expenditures rose in real terms by 35% a year. Rough estimates
indicate that at present more than 20% of GNP is being invested in Indonesia.



-3-
8.        The effect of the high level of investment expenditures, however,
cannot yet be seen in the growth of the Indonesian economy. In fact, the
economic growth in the first three years of Indonesia's Second Development
Plan, i.e. 1974/75 - 1976/77, has been somewhat s:Lower than the observed
long-term trend rate of 7.5% a year. The world recession, uncertainties
following the Pertamina crisis and domestic inflation (which made certain
domestic industries uncompetitive with imports), all had a dampening effect on
the growth of the economy. Indonesia's growth rate also failed to accelerate
because the economic benefits from investments in recent years have been slow
in coming and because the growth in the private sector slackened. New
investment has been concentrated on relatively capital-intensive industrial
and infrastructure projects with long gestation periods; some projects, such
as Krakatau steel and the LNG, have been further delayed by slow implementa-
tion. Moreover, the realization of economic benefits from investments in such
sectors as transportation, telecommunications, etc. depends on the growth in
demand which in turn is determined by the growth of the rest of the economy,
which in Indonesia is mostly the private sector. Unfortunately, the private
sector seems to have failed to provide the necessary momentum of growth. The
indications are that investments in this sector, because of the Government's
attempts to control domestic inflation or because of the world recession,
rose only modestly in the first two years of the Plan.
9.        The orientation of the public sector investments was partly affected
by the Government's takeover of Pertamina's projects in the non-oil sector,
but was also a result of its attempt to raise investment rapidly in response
to the sharply rising oil revenues. It was easier and quicker to develop
capital-intensive projects; plans for several of them in fact existed even
before the improvement in public finances. On the other hand, new projects
in such sectors as rural development, transmigration, health and education
generally required not only innovation but also setting up new institutions.
Nevertheless, the Government views the orientation of its investment program
with some concern. As part of its efforts to rescue Pertamina from bankruptcy,
it initiated a careful review of all public sector investment proposals and
strengthened its control over the direction of investments. Where practicable,
the Government rejected or scaled down costly proposals. The budget for
1977/78 provides for a larger share of development: expenditures in such
sectors as agriculture, health, family planning, education and regional
development.
10.      Reliable data on the recent trends in employment are not available.
The labor force has been increasing at a rate of more than one million
persons a year, but the current level of unemploynent and the extent of
underemployment are not known. While considerable investment activity and
general economic prosperity is in evidence in urban and rural areas of
Indonesia, there is no indication that the labor market has tightened or that
the wages of unskilled workers have more than kept pace with domestic infla-
tion. However, the Government's efforts at family planning appear to have
yielded impressive results.  Preliminary estimates from an inter-censal
survey in 1976 indicate that since 1971 the birth rate in Java and Bali has
significantly declined.



- 4 -
11.        The long-term consequences of the Pertamina crisis remain in the
form of large foreign debt and burdensome unfinished investment projects.
The heavy foreign borrowing in the last two years has raised the level of
debt service, which is now expected to reach $1.87 billion by 1980 or close
to 17% of the projected export earnings compared to 13% in 1976. This does
not take account of the contingent liabilities incurred with regard to the
hire-purchase of tankers, the exact amount of which is subject to litigation.
12.       The prospects for Indonesia's export are generally good; the
principal constraint is expected to be quantities available for export rather
than foreign demand. Indonesia's export earnings, at least over the next
five years, are expected to rise rapidly and it should not be difficult to
meet the debt service obligations and still to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods. However, to maintain the pace of
development, Indonesia will continue to need a substantial inflow of foreign
assistance on concessional terms. In order to keep the debt service burden
manageable, resort to commercial borrowing in the next few years will have to
be kept to a minimum. It is estimated that Indonesia will need $2.1 billion
in new external financing commitments in 1977, and about the same amount next
year, of which no more than one-third should be on commercial terms. At the
meeting of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) in April 1977,
aid pledges of over $500 million from bilateral sources were made. The
likely commitments from those IGGI donor countries which did not pledge, from
the multilateral agencies and from OPEC and East European countries should
raise the total of official development assistance to $1.5 billion.
13.       The heavy foreign debt service requirements will also reduce the
public sector resources available for investment. The net resource transfers
from abroad are expected to decline from $1.56 billion in 1976/77 to about
$640 million in 1980/81, or from about 5% to 1% of GNP. In order to maintain
the high rate of domestic investment already reached, the Government would
need to raise substantial additional revenue over the next few years, the
bulk of which would have to come from non-oil sources. The additional
revenue raising effort is also necessary to keep inflation under control.
The Government has already taken steps in this direction; income tax proced-
ures have been simplified and import duties are being more strictly enforced.
These measures as well as some additional ones need to be vigorously pursued.
14.       The medium-term outlook of the Indonesian economy is good.  Over
the last eight years, GNP rose at an average rate of 7.5% a year, and food
production expanded in step. This rate of growth could be maintained in
future if the rate of investment continues to be high and the orientation of
investments is shifted to less capital-intensive forms. Thus the Government's
efforts in mobilising domestic resources and careful investment planning
would be crucial in maintaining the relatively high rate of economic growth
and creation of employment opportunities. The Government would also need to
pay special attention to the production of rice, and food crops generally, so
that the recent setbacks remain a temporary pheonomenon.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
15.       The discussion in Part I of this report umderscores the need for
a development program which provides productive work opportunities (with
resultant increased incomes) for Indonesia's preserntly underemployed and
growing labor force. Major efforts are needed to increase labor-intensive
employment and programs directed towards improving the incomes of the poor and
their living standards. To assist the Government in attaining its goals, the
Bank is planning to increase its commitments to Indonesia and in particular to
support projects designed to:  improve agricultural credit; rehabilitate and
expand irrigation systems; assist transmigration and other land development
outside Java and Bali for and by smallholders; increase nonagricultural employ-
ment in the rural areas and small towns through the establishment of small-
scale industries, rural credit schemes as well as vocational and nonformal
education programs; develop the electric power system; construct urgently
needed water supply and transport facilities; and expand the national family
planning program.
16.       As of March 31, 1977, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits totaling
$561.8 million and 23 Bank loans amounting to $1,155.5 million. At that date,
IFC investments totaled $59.7 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total external debt (disbursed) outstanding at the end of 1976
was about 6% and the share of debt service was less than 1%. By 1978 these
ratios are expected to increase to around 12% and 5%, respectively. A summary
statement of IDA Credits, Bank Loans and IFC Investments as of March 31,
1977, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects are contained in
Annex II.
17.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one third of all Bank
lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits fcor estate rehabilitation,
seven Bank loans and IDA credits for the rehabilitation and expansion of the
irrigation systems, two for fisheries, and one each for seeds production, beef
cattle, sugar, smallholder tea, smallholder rubber, agriculture research,
food crop extension services, transmigration and nutrition development. The
Operations and Evaluation Department of the Bank is; undertaking a study of
Bank Group lending in the agricultural sector. In the industrial sector, the
Bank has assisted in three projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production
and distribution capacity, three for development finance companies (Government-
owned and private) which play a major role in fostering the growth of indus-
trial enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung industrial estate. Loans and
credits have also been extended to the education (including technical and
agicultural education, textbook production, vocational and civil service
training), telecommunications, tourism, power generation and distribution,
transportation (including highways, inter-island sbLipping, railroads and
ports), population, urban and water supply sectors. Also a loan was extended
for a national resource survey and mapping project and four credits for
technical assistance to aid the Government in prepaLring and formulating its
development programs and projects.
18.       Bank lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968 for
irrigation rehabilitation; lending on Bank terms began in June 1974. Dis-
bursements on loans and credits are now at satisfactory levels. The



Indonesian authorities have become increasingly aware of the cost to the
country of the delays in project execution caused by cumbersome procedures
and of the need to establish an effective control system in BAPPENAS (the
National Development Planning Agency). At the Government's request, the Bank
arranged in 1974 for assistance under the Fourth Technical Assistance Credit
(Credit 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring and control system. It is hoped
that the system which is due to commence operation shortly will lead to
better project administration.
19.       Six Loans have been made to Indonesia this fiscal year prior to the
proposed loan; two other loans are being presented to the Executive Directors
at this time, which would bring total lending to Indonesia this fiscal year to
$375.5 million. Projects for nucleus estate development, development finance
company (BAPINDO), population, small enterprise credit, rural credit and
non-formal education are expected to be ready for presentation in the next
several months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
20.       Increased industrial and mining output (mainly oil) along with
banking, trade and other services have contributed to an average real growth
rate of GNP of about 7.5% per annum over the last five years or so; on the
other hand, agricultural output has grown by only 4-5% per annum.   In real
terms, agricultural production represented about 45% of GDP in 1970; prelim-
inary estimates indicate that in 1975 that share had fallen to about 37%.
Over the same period, the share represented by food crop production fell from
26% to 22%. The rapidly rising value of oil revenues has led to a decline in
the importance of the agricultural sector as a contributor to total export
earnings. Although exports of agricultural, forestry and fishery products
currently account for about 80% of the value of non-oil exports, they repre-
sent only about one-third of the value of total exports.
21.       Despite its declining share of GDP and the value of exports, agri-
culture remains a major force in the life and welfare of the Indonesian
people. Some 80% of the population live in rural areas, and agriculture
provides part or full time employment for about 70% of the total labor force.
22.       Within agriculture, rice accounts for nearly one-third of the value
of agricultural production, dominates the scene, and has a considerable bearing
on the aggregate volume of food output. In the late 1960s, rice production
increased at a rate of some 5% per annum; however, that rate declined to about
3.5% per annum in the early 1970s and remains at that level. In general,
yield increases have been responsible for about three-quarters of production
increases. With the potential for increasing the area under rice and other
major food crops being limited to, at best, inferior soil types compared with
those now being used, improving yields through improved agricultural services
and/or rehabilitation of irrigation facilities assumes even greater importance.



-7-
23.       The urgency of increasing productivity in foodgrain production on
existing areas is emphasized by the lack of suitable soils on the islands
outside Java and Bali, and the continued growth in demand for grain.
Increased agricultural production was given high priority in Indonesia's
First Five-Year Plan (1969-74), with strong concentration of Government
programs on rehabilitation of irrigation systems, creation of price support
policies, provision of funds for research and extension, and improved
supply of inputs and credit to farmers. Nonetheless, imports of rice have
fluctuated for some years around one million tons annually and, due to
droughts, reached 1.6 million tons in 1976/77. Indeed, the drought during
1976 has highlighted the vulnerability of foodgrain production to climatic
effects; because of weather and the inroads made by pests and disease, rice
production in 1976 recorded no growth compared with 1975.
24.       Self-sufficiency in foodgrain production, with emphasis on rice,
is a goal set by the Government for its Second Five-Year Plan (1974-79).
Attainment of this goal will require a growth rate of rice production of
at least 4% per year. If such a growth rate is to be achieved and sustained,
there will be a need for further intensification of irrigation development,
including completion of ongoing rehabilitation, groundwater development,
drainage and flood control schemes, and construction of storage dams to
increase cropping intensity in areas already irrigated as well as to serve
new irrigation areas.
25.       Assistance to the Government's irrigation development program has
been provided by the Bank through the financing of seven irrigation projects
(Credits 127, 195, 220, 289, 514-IND and Loans 1100 and 1268-IND), the
upgrading of staff of the Jatiluhur Authority (a semiautonomous agency
presently involved in carrying out three Bank-assisted projects), and finan-
cing of training programs to strengthen the technical and administrative
capabilities of PROSIDA - an agency of the Directorate-General of Water
Resources Development (DGINRD) created to execute Bank-assisted projects. A
Bank mission which visited Indonesia in September/October 1976 to review
work on the above-mentioned projects concluded that progress is generally
satisfactory and that most of the problems contributing to a number of the
projects being behind schedule (early management difficulties, slow starts in
engagement of consultants, unanticipated heavy rains in the 1973 dry season,
and inflation with its resultant cost overruns) have now been overcome. The
mission recommended that the Government departments concerned (Ministry of
Public Works and Power, BAPPENAS and Ministry of Finance) take steps to
ensure a more timely release of funds required for operation and maintenance
(O&M) and undertake a review of future O&M funding and staffing requirements.
Production increases on all projects were generally in line with appraisal
estimates, and the economic rates of return remain quite satisfactory.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
26.       Under the previous eight Bank-assisted projects, rehabilitation
and improvement of Government-maintained irrigation systems has consisted
primarily of those aspects most essential to put the much neglected systems



- 8 -
back to near normal working conditions - reconstructing headworks and weirs,
primary and secondary canals and appurtenant structures, and construction
of flood control and drainage works. Financing for development of tertiary
and quaternary canal systems, necessary in order to eliminate water having
to flow from secondary canals over 50-100 plots before reaching the farthest
fields in the command area, has been provided under the Fifth, Sixth, Seventh
and Eighth Irrigation Projects, with the latter also making financial provi-
sion for construction of a pilot groundwater scheme, expansion of the Audio-
Visual Training aids program (started under Loan 1100-IND), a text processing
system, and large-scale mapping for irrigation projects under PROSIDA manage-
ment.
27.       The feasibility study for the SEDEKU /1 area was prepared by the
Semarang-Kudus Project Office, with consultant assistance provided by NEDECO
and Binnie & Partners. The DGWRD's Directorate of Irrigation (DOI) and its
consultants (Nippon Koei and Indah Karya) were responsible for preparation
of the feasibility study for the initial stage of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
area. The project was appraised in October/November 1976 and the loan
negotiated in Washington from April 18-25, 1977. The Government delegation
was led by Mr. Suyono Sosrodarsono, Director-General of Water Resources
Development. The Appraisal Report No. 1477a-IND, dated May 5, 1977, is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately; a loan and project summary
is contained in Annex III, and supplementary data in Annex IV.
Project Areas
28.       The 30,000 ha SEDEKU irrigation system, consisting of nine distinct
small-to medium-sized systems, is located on the East Semarang plain in
Central Java. All of the systems are susceptible to varying degrees of flood-
ing caused by local runoff that is not evacuated quickly enough by internal
drains, and by overbank flow from rivers and streams which flow through the
project area before discharging into the sea. In 1970, the Government initiated
the rehabilitation and improvement of the SEDEKU system and, with Bank Group
assistance under Credit 127-IND, three of the nine systems (totalling about
11,000 ha) were completely rehabilitated; about 14,500 ha of the remaining
six systems were rehabilitated during 1970-76 using Government funds. However,
when Credit 127-IND was granted, no provision was made in the project for the
rehabilitation or improvement of flood control and drainage works and, due to
damage sustained by repeated floodings, some 3,500 ha that had been rehabili-
tated in those six systems will now need repairs and improvements. The total
area requiring rehabilitation or improvement is about 8,000 ha. (Map 12642)
29.       The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung system is located along the south bank of the
Batang Hari river in West Sumatera Province and covers a command area of about
20,000 ha. About one half of the area has been designated by the Government
as the resettlement site for some 10,000 families that would be displaced by
the construction of the Wonogiri Dam in Central Java. The remaining 10,000 ha
have been set aside for some 10,000 farm families that have settled sponta-
neously or been transmigrated earlier on the surrounding areas. The area was
selected because of its dependable water supply and availability of virgin
land suited to irrigated rice production. (Map 12643)
/1 Semarang-Demak-Kudus Irrigation System in Central Java.



- 9 -
30.       Information regarding farm size and land tenure, obtained from sur-
veys and local officials, suggests an average farm size of 0.5 ha at SEDEKU.
At Sungai Dareh-Sitiung it is 0.75 ha on the area aLready settled /1 and to
be irrigated, and 1.0 ha on the area to be developed and not yet settled.
At SEDEKU, with an estimated rural population of 0.5 million, some 60% of
farmers are owner-operators and 40% share-croppers. Landless laborers
comprise 40% of the rural population. All farmers at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
are owner-operators and there are no landless laboresrs.
31.       In the SEDEKU area, 30,000 ha of paddy is irrigated during the wet
season and 2,600 ha during the dry season. In addition, some 4,000 ha of
palawija /2 crops (of which the major one is soybeans) are partially irrigated
during the dry season. In the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area, farmers grow rainfed
rice on 1,500 ha in the wet season but do not crop the area in the dry season.
Project Description
32.       Rehabilitation and improvements in the SE]DEKU system would require
repairing or reconstructing about 130 km of primary and secondary canals
and some 200 division, control and related structures (including some bridges);
construction of canal and river bank protection; construction and/or rehabili-
tation of about 70 km of inspection and access roads; improvement of tele-
communications facilities; construction of staff housing; and procurement of
equipment and vehicles. Tertiary development on 17,000 ha of the service
area would include construction of about 1,200 km of tertiary and quaternary
irrigation canals and structures and 680 km of tertiary and quaternary drains,
and rehabilitation and improvement of about 100 km of tertiary canals (in-
cluding about 300 structures).
33.       The 3,500 ha of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung system would initially be
supplied with water from a temporary pumping plant on the Batang Hari river
to provide immediate water supply needs for the families resettled from
Wonogiri (expected to reach 2,000 by mid-1977). Works would include construc-
tion of the pumping plant; installation of a diesel generating plant with a
total installed capacity of 3,600 kVA; construction of: about 30 km of primary
and 35 km of secondary canals (including some 100 control and related struc-
tures), 50 km of primary and secondary drainage channels, about 55 km of
tertiary and subtertiary canals, 185 km of quaternary canals, 140 km of
tertiary and quaternary drains, and about 350 tertiary and quaternary canal
structures. In addition, the project makes provision for construction of
inspection and access roads; installation of telecommunications and related
facilities; construction of a design office and staff housing; and procurement
of vehicles and equipment. The pumping plant, canals and structures would be
designed to be compatible with the ultimate gravity system for the 20,000 ha
command area, which is not expected to be completed until late 1985. On
completion of the ultimate system, the pumping plant would be dismantled for
use in other areas with similar immediate water supply needs.
/1 In December 1976 the Department of Transmigration resettled the first 500
families from Wonogiri.
/2 Palawija crops are those other than rice, sugar and estate crops.



- 10 -
34.       Provision is also made for consulting services to the implementing
agencies to assist in: (a) supervising construction of the flood control and
drainage works, the rehabilitation of primary and secondary irrigation sys-
tems, and detailed designs and construction drawings for tertiary systems
at SEDEKU; (b) completion of detailed designs and supervision of construction
of the initial stage of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung system, and preparation of a
feasibility report covering completion of the project to its full 20,000 ha
potential; and (c) a review of existing studies and designs, and for mapping,
additional surveys, investigations and studies required to establish the
feasibility of constructing nine small- to medium-sized irrigation systems in
Java, Sumatera and Sulawesi.
Organization and Management
35.       PROSIDA, which is one of the most efficient units of DGWRD and was
specifically created to execute Bank-assisted irrigation projects, would be
responsible for execution of the SEDEKU subproject and would carry out day-to-
day supervision of construction through its Semarang office, which will be
strengthened by the assignment of experienced personnel drawn from the recently
completed Glapan-Sedadi subproject (Credit 127-IND). DOI, although not pre-
viously directly involved in Bank-assisted irrigation projects, has had many
years of experience in executing projects financed with bilateral assistance
from the United States, Netherlands, Japanese, British and Canadian Govern-
ments, and would implement the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung subproject, directing
work through its provincial field office in Sungai Dareh. Staff in that
office would include experienced DGWRD and PROSIDA personnel assigned there
from subprojects that are nearing completion.
36.       With the assistance of consultants, both implementing agencies
should have no difficulty in carrying out their respective parts of the
works. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that: (a) the PROSIDA and DOI subproject offices engaged in project imple-
mentation would at all times be adequately staffed; and (b) should the need
arise to replace either the General Manager of PROSIDA or the Director of
Irrigation, consultations would be held with the Bank before new appointments
are made (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement).
37.       The mix of consulting services required includes engineers, economists,
agriculturists, surveyors, draftsmen, hydrologists, agronomists and soil scien-
tists. In view of the substantial cost savings (see para. 40) and developmental
benefits, the Government is endeavoring to encourage and develop local consul-
tants. To upgrade the capability of these consultants, foreign firms would
be encouraged to associate with local firms approved by the Government and
the Bank. A total of about 2,440 man-months of consulting services would be
required, of which about two-thirds would be provided by Indonesian consultants.
To avoid project implementation delays associated with the engagement of
consultants, assurances have been obtained from the Government that consul-
tants acceptable to the Bank would be engaged by December 31, 1977, under
terms and conditions approved by the Bank (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).



- 11 -
Agricultural Supporting Services
38.       Credit is available to farmers from a number of sources, including
village cooperatives (BUUD/KUDS), merchants, landlords, relatives and Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). The main credit supplier is BRI who, through the
BIM4AS program, provides loans to eligible /1 farmers for seed, fertilizer,
agrochemicals, spraying and cost of living expenses. The program currently
covers only about 30% of the irrigated wet-season and 5% of the irrigated
dry-season paddy in the SEDEKU project area. Coverage is low due to flooding
risks, the problems of using new agricultural techniques under present
conditions, ineligibility of farmers for loans, and staff shortages at the
BRI field office. At present, there is no functioning distribution system of
farm inputs through the BITIAS program in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area; how-
ever, on completion of the project and introduction of the program, coverage
is expected to reach at least 80% of the area. Paddy seed is obtained
through BUUD/KUDs and local seed growers. As a result of substantial losses
due to flooding and frequent replanting, about 1,380 tons of rice seed are
used annually in the SEDEKU area; at full project dievelopment this figure
.should drop to about 1,140 tons/annum. In the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area,
total rice seed requirements would amount to about 210 tons annually. Due
to a shortage of trained staff, at present only BIMAS recipients are eligible
for extension services. Participation will be expanded through the intro-
duction into both project areas of the Bank-assistied National Food Crops
Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND). Assurances have been obtained from the
Government that it would ensure that each eligible settler in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area would be issued a land title certificate to enable him to
obtain credit from banks operating in the project area (Section 4.06 of the
Loan Agreement).
39.       Fertilizer is generally supplied under the BIMAS program and dis-
tributed through BUUD/KUDs. Although supplies are adequate in the SEDEKU
area, shortages occur at the village level due to itransport problems and lack
of village storage facilities. The Government is taking steps to correct
these deficiencies. At present, there is no ferti:Lizer distribution system
in operation in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area. The Directorate General of
Cooperatives would establish BUUDs and village kiosks in the Sungai Dareh-
Sitiung area to handle distribution at the village level, and would supply
the BUUDs with paddy drying floors, grain warehouses and rice milling
facilities.
Project Cost and Financing
40.       The estimated project cost is $64 million, of which $32.8 million
(about 51%) would be in foreign exchange. Cost estimates include allowances
for physical contingencies of 10% for services (studies and investigations)
and 25% for the rehabilitation and construction components, to provide for
additional work or changed conditions that may be encountered after the work
areas are dewatered. Provisions for price increases due to inflation amount
/1 To be eligible for a loan, a farmer may not be more than two years overdue
on his earlier BIMAS repayments.



- 12 -
to $11.2 million, or 18% of total project cost. For civil works, the assumed
annual rates of inflation are 20% in 1977, 15% in 1978/79, and 12% in 1980/81.
For equipment and services they are 7.5% in 1977-79 and 7% in 1980/81. Costs
for consulting services are based on recent contracts signed in Indonesia for
similar services with local and foreign firms. The direct cost of foreign
consultants (salaries, overseas allowance, company overhead and fee) amounts
to about $6,500/man-month. Including indirect costs (travel, housing, office
and miscellaneous expenses), the total cost would be about $8,000/man-month.
By comparison, total costs of local consultants amount to about $2,000/man-
month.
41.       The proposed loan of $35 million would finance 55% of total project
costs, consisting of the foreign exchange component plus an estimated $2.2 mil-
lion of local costs of Indonesian consultants. The loan would have a repay-
ment term of 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace. The Government would
provide to the implementing agencies the remaining $29 million out of annual
budget appropriations.
Procurement
42.       Vehicles and equipment for construction, pumping and operation
(estimated cost $3.5 million including contingencies) would be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. For
purposes of a bid evaluation, a preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price
of imported goods, or the level of actual customs duty, whichever is lower,
would be extended to qualified manufacturers of these goods. Small off-the-
shelf items of less than $10,000 each, and limited to an aggregate total of
$100,000, which are not suitable for international competitive bidding, would
be purchased through normal Government procurement procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. There are sufficient supplies of such goods to
ensure adequate competition. All contracts for vehicles and equipment
exceeding of $100,000 in value would be submitted to the Bank for review
before bidding and award. Mapping (estimated cost $1.2 million including
contingencies) would be carried out under locally advertised contracts
following usual Government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Consultants' services (estimated cost $11.5 million including contingencies)
would be procured in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
43.       Since small structures for tertiary systems in the SEDEKU area,
and all of the works at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung, are scattered over a wide area
and construction would occur over a period of four years, they would be of
little interest to international contractors. These works would, therefore,
be carried out either by force account or locally advertised contracts
following usual Government procedures, which were reviewed under previous
Bank-assisted projects and are acceptable. This procedure would also apply
to the irrigation and drainage works in the SEDEKU area, where grouping of
the works into large contracts would still not be attractive to international
contractors because they would consist of a great number of relatively small
and disparate construction activities scattered over a wide area. Accordingly,



- 13 -
assurances have been obtained from the Government thLat: (a) to ensure wide
competition and upgrade the capability of the local contracting industry, the
rehabilitation works (excluding tertiary networks) wrould be divided into a
number of suitable contracts (minimum $125,000) that would enable large local
contractors and joint ventures of small local firms to bid within the cate-
gories or classes for which Government regulations r equire them to be pre-
qualified; (b) price escalation clauses, which are not normally provided in
local civil works contracts, would be included in contracts extending beyond
one year; (c) for contracts estimated to cost $500,000 and above, documents
would be submitted to the Bank for review before tendering and award; and
(d) to minimize late construction starts, tenders would be advertised as bid
documents are completed, and bids would be processed even before the project
implementation budget (DIP) is signed, although contract award and signing
would only be done after the DIP is approved (Schedule 4, Sections B.1 and
D.1 of the Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
44.       Disbursement of the proposed loan would cover:
(a) 60% of total costs for civil works;
(b)  80% of total expenditures for mapping services;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for both local and foreign
consultants;
(d) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported
vehicles and equipment; 95% of the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment; 65% for locally procured imported
equipment (excluding vehicles); and 40% of total expendi-
tures for locally procured vehicles.
In the case of the tertiary systems, disbursements would be made only if the
withdrawal application is accompanied by a certificate from the site engineer
stating that the quaternary canals and drains in the tertiary block have also
been constructed (Schedule 1, para. 4 (ii) of the Loan Agreement). Disburse-
ments for force account works would be made against certificates of expendi-
ture which would be retained by the Government and be made available for
inspection by Bank missions. Since a number of bids for civil works under
the project have already been processed and both PROSIDA and DOI are anxious
to award the contracts and have construction commenc e as soon as possible, it
is recommended that expenditures for civil works, upc to a maximum of $1.0
million, incurred from April 1, 1977, be financed retroactively.
Operation and Maintenance (0&M)
45.       During construction, and for a period of one year after project
completion, PROSIDA, working with Provincial 0&M staff, would be responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage works in the
SEDEKU area.  The works would then be formally turned over to the Central
Java Provincial Irrigation Service, who would assume responsibility for O&M
of the primary and secondary and internal drainage systems and for the



- 14 -
inspection roads along the canals. The DGWRD's Directorate of Rivers would
be responsible for O&M of the main drainage channels, and the Kabupatens
(Districts) for the district and village roads in the project area. Working
with Provincial 0&M staff, DOI would be responsible for operation and main-
tenance of the initial stage (3,500 ha) of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung system,
and would continue to operate and maintain the system until irrigation
development on the entire 20,000 ha service area is completed. The completed
system would then be turned over to the West Sumatera Provincial Irrigation
Service, who would thereafter assume O&M responsibility.
46.       Assurances have been obtained from the Government that a water-user
association would be formed for each tertiary unit (covering about 150 ha) in
both project areas, to participate in the construction of the tertiaries,
utilize the improved water supplies, and operate and maintain the tertiary
systems (Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement). The water-user associations
would collect 40-50 kg of paddy/ha from each beneficiary in order to meet O&M
costs, a procedure that is currently being used on a number of pilot tertiary
systems and has, in nearly all instances, resulted in the systems being
adequately maintained.
47.       Although there have been some improvements in O&M services in
the completed and ongoing irrigation projects, a major constraint has been
the untimeliness of fund releases; in addition, there is still need for
increases in budgetary allocations and trained O&M personnel. In its FY77/78
budget, the Government has allocated about Rp 3,350 million for O&M of all
Bank-assisted irrigation systems, but further improvements in O&M services
will only be realized if the allocated funds are released to the subprojects
in a timely manner and additional 0&M personnel are employed to ensure that
the available funds are effectively utilized. Accordingly, the following
assurances have been obtained from the Government (Section 4.03 (b) and (c)
of the Loan Agreement):
(a) adequate O&M funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation and
actual needs, would be allocated in future years for all Bank-
assisted irrigation systems;
(b) the necessary steps would be taken to ensure that at least one-
half of the annual budgeted O&M funds would be released to the
subprojects by August 15 of each year and the balance in equal
quarterly installments until the total annual allocated amounts
are fully released;
(c) to upgrade the standard of O&M services, and effectively utilize
the available funds, the number of qualified O&M personnel in
Bank-assisted projects would be progressively increased until
adequate staff levels, established by the Government in consulta-
tion with the Bank, have been attained; and
(d) by December 31 of each year, it would inform the Bank of the
proposed number of O&M personnel and per ha budget for each sub-
project; by June 1 of each following year, it would submit the
approved O&M budget; and by October 1, the staffing provisions.



- 15 -
Cost Recovery
48.       Irrigators in Indonesia pay a land tax (IPEDA) assessed as a percen-
tage of the value of production and, depending on the intensity of on-farm
irrigation development, water charges for 0&M of the system below the secon-
dary turnout. As the result of a Government decision to provide special
allocations under its local infrastructure development program (INPRES) on
the basis of IPEDA collection performance, there has been a marked improvement
in collection rates in all irrigated areas in Indonesia. The current average
annual IPEDA rates are Rp 3,400/ha at SEDEKU and Rp 1,000/ha on the existing
cropped land at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. At full project development, these
rates (in 1977 prices) are expected to increase to Rp 10,000/ha at SEDEKU and
Rp 12,000/ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung.  Based on these incremental rates, the
cost recovery indices are 19% for SEDEKU and 10% for Sungai Dareh-Sitiung.
These recovery levels are considered satisfactory sLnce even at full project
development the per capita of some 70% of all farm families in the areas
would still be below the country's absolute poverty level. To ensure the
irrigators' continued contributions towards the maintenance of project works,
assurances have been obtained from the Government that: (a) under its laws
and regulations, it would collect the adjusted IPEDA rates based on the
increased productivity of all irrigated land rehabiLitated and constructed
under the project, at levels consistent with the benieficiaries' capability to
pay; (b) the amounts collected would be sufficient ito ensure sound O&M
practices and to recover a reasonable portion of capital costs during the
project's useful life; and (c) the IPEDA rates collected for different land
classes would be furnished every two years to the Bank for comments (Section
4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
49.       The proposed project, by providing improved water control distri-
bution and drainage, plus new irrigation development on 3,500 ha, would
increase crop yields and production on a total of 3:3,500 ha at SEDEKU and
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung. The project would directly benefit some 64,000 farm
families (about 350,000 people) and, through the provision of additional
employment opportunities, some 40,000 landless laborers' families. At full
development (about six years after completion of project works) the annual
increase in paddy production is expected to total albout 81,600 tons, and
about 1,000 tons in soybeans. After deducting the incremental cost of
imported chemicals, fuel and other farm inputs, the annual net foreign
exchange savings would amount to about $17 million.
50.       Using in all cases a 30-year project life; full benefits being
attained six years after completion of construction; farm-gate price for
rice, soybeans and fertilizers based on the Bank's commodity price projec-
tions for 1985, expressed in December 1977 constant prices; a shadow foreign
exchange rate; and a seasonsably variable shadow wage rate for unskilled
labor, the economic rates of return would be 18% for SEDEKU (which accounts
for 70% of project costs) and 15% for Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (30% of project
costs). The weighted economic rate of return for the two components would be



- 16 -
17%. Sensitivity analyses indicate that, even taking into account cost
overruns, reductions and delays in benefits, valuing of farm labor throughout
the year at market wage rates and foreign exchange at the official exchange
rate (Rp 415 = US$1.00), the rates of return would not fall below 13% in
SEDEKU and 10% in Sungai Dareh-Sitiung.
51.       The majority of the beneficiaries of the project would be small
farmers and sharecroppers. At full project development (1986), per capita
farm income at SEDEKU would increase by about 50% (from $30-115 to $45-170)
and at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung by about 190% (from $55 to $160 for the indigenous
farm families). An estimated 90% of the project areas' farm families pre-
sently have per capita incomes at or below the estimated absolute poverty
level of $95 (1975 prices). At full agricultural development, about one-
fifth of the farmers in the group would move above the absolute poverty level
but still have average incomes below the 1975 Indonesian per capita GNP of
$210.  The project would also benefit the landless labor force by creating a
demand for an additional 2.6 million man-days of farm labor per year.
Environmental Effects
52.       The SEDEKU area has been under irrigation and cultivation for many
generations and no permanent adverse ecological effects are anticipated from
the project works. The use of fertilizers and pesticides is already wide-
spread in the project area, and users are constantly reminded of the toxic
effect of pesticides on humans and domestic animals and urged to exercise
care in their application, which advice will be passed on to farmers settling
in Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
54.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex IV of this Report.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 16, 1977
Washington, D.C.



ANNEI I
TABLEC mA                                     Page 1 of 4 pages
.69q55.Uueeu...u,aeu.Su         eseyo  *S      VW.*n               Wose..
*tts igit isoio  t@@Mt                            @        @     tt      ' -         *@                  a,--   tt * some
POPUt*LAY NtD. TVAYLl 3TAT:p,:C,
PPuLATVSN  (OtRiNt. MILL ON)               9"'        116,s       $31.6                 To's        507.0          30,9
pIg  s*.  MA S            L             350         st.,       e,                    093          3,5,0        319.0
Pro ee 8:Tm;* ii;ttSuLfuptiL,LhtWt      IN'Oe       461e iss, 4611                                setso         Ia.s
rRU011' S0RN RATEi  I1i  U   LV)         60.0        43.9          ,9                  0,3           e              344,
CRUDE' SETH RAvTg  0TOU,A)               354 -$  took            Itt                  ua,           V1          1
INN  MORTALITY  BIRT   YOI17.. 1.W..                                                                         s.
Imea"  tOl^LT  MAIItE fTioui            11tieS,    ,,                                140;                       Solos  
LIFE   ACTAN011 AT DN"  (VON              47.5                   au 0                 4V3.3        41.          511.
e00se  IEPRONUCC?ON RATE                                          3.1 3.i                           32*
POPULATION RoNTN RATE: (S)
TOWTAL:                                   a.  a..                                                                 3 S. ^  a,s  I.e
URBAN eOPULATION tl Of TOTAL)              1.9         1.S5        16.3                   6.4         19.5         1.,6
AS,' STRUttqURE' (PERCNT)
e To 14 YEARS                           4J1, 4/i     4,.0       43.9 h               146.4        41.0         45
I  TO Ca YEtaS                           5s.3        I3.5        53                    5i.0        55.3         S1.0
O5 YEA*S AND OVER                         i3.         I; _1                             2.6         3.1          206
ElIC D    DEEINDCy     RATIO                 0.S,       0,4         0.9                   1-0          0,0          0,9
AB;OPI4ENCY RATI RATIO                                        1.3         ~         1.6~ A                    1.5
ECONOMIsC DlEDNt*F01413^16s a                                                   t                                   low
FANILN PLaNNINS
AtCePTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)                        EM 359) /   6786.2                          1 t45055.0     350.0
USERS CX OPi HARRIED WOME"N                                        ;                                               O0
MPLDOYMENT
TTAL LABORt FORCE  (THOUSAND)           34600.0           *,   44I2OO 01300.0 2210000o    12300.0
LALB    PC! etIN AsmzcufiTumf Cs'           75.0          6. 690                        Tt O          40           5 s 6
UNEMPLOYED (I OP LAXbOR FORCE)              S.4                           ..                                       S:.  '
INCOMEt OISYZStUTION
i oc PRIVATE INCOlE RIgtlD BY-
HISHEAT  95 07 HOUS2HOLDS                                       SI,.e  3l.             2           5   A
6I040ET 501 OP' HOUSEHOLDS                                          I ..  0            3           53.1
LOWEST   906 O:t "UssNOLDS                 .,                      , It                7,s          d 4
LOWESO7  2CS D9 tMOUSENtOLDS               ..          *.        lt~s                 1!.o         13.1 E li, 
DISThpUv:pqet 0- OLAMB ONNERSMIP
X' OtWNED D814ATOtl41t  10?   OWNNNS       46  ^                                           0
EALtTH ANO NUT4RTION
*w.;r ........ a ..
POPULATION PCR PHYSICIAN                41360.0 A  2b370o0    1i670,0                 7:000..    499  0
POPULATION PER NURSINg PERSON                        7030.0      7290. O g           72030 Og        22u.0 '
POPULATION PIR HOSPITAL BCD              II70.0Le  1S00 La  1050                      *l;lO  O0 10                *3So0
PER CAPITA SUPP6 Dil '
t^kLOolSt (I OP REQUIRWMENTIt.8,                     91.0 9O .0                          ,         93.0        1C00.
PROTEmN  lANitg PER 0CA'i                43.0        43.0                                           * 0         4 .
-O 'WHICH ANImAL AND PULSE             15.0        14.0          .                               1.0          43.0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGCS 1.4                    .          .                                .            ..          9.0
EDUCATION
..
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RA7TO
PRIMARY SCHOOL,                          54.0 n       9.0        79. 0                9000 /g      6e 1e O.0
0ECONDARY SCHOOL                          0.0        12.0        1J9. 0               o.              .     ~
YEARS OF SCHOOLINQ PROVIODE
(P7RUt AND SECOND LEVEL)                 12.0        11.0        12.0                 1110,        12.0         10.0
VoCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
tS O  StECONDiAY)                        ?0*0        9,20        32. 0                 t.0          A.03          b.0,
ADULT LITERACY RtAltE (Xi4706590                                   0/d ,.o33A
MOUSINO
PERSONS PER ROOR A (URSA"N                     ,          ,,        t
OCCUPIED OwELLINPS 4ITHOUT
PIPED WATER CS?1)9
ACCetS  TO ELtt eRICITY                       .           .           *-
(S -O ALL DNILLIN2D)
RURAL RWILLISNS CONNECTED                                                                                           3.0
to EL9CTRICItY CS)                         ,;          ,,          ,   .                                         7,0
CONCOUNT ION
mASS  RECEIVERiS (PCR THOU POP)              7.       110.0        090                     .0         31.0         45.0
PAIENStN e^AR  (PER THOU POP)                7           3.0       3v.0 I                 t1.6         1,           8,
ELgCTRICITY (4M/yR PgR  API)                11.0       solo        31,0                  000 l'0,0                  3,0
SEE:NOTES A"ND DEPEmIIO;sN  ON RtItV;t                                                  ...............



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year beta-en 1959 and 1961, for 1970 bhanen 1968 and 1970, and for Must Recent EStinate between
1973 and 1975.
*   Inctuding West Iriea.
me  The Philippines has been selected as an objective country for ite geographical ainilarity and because of ito apparent advanced etage of eononaic
developent.
INDOESIA        1960     a  EIcludes West lrian;    /b  1962;    /c  1951-56;    /d  1961-63;    Ie  10 years and over, ability to read or write in
either Latin or non-Latin charatera.
1970    Ia  1961-71;    /b  1971;    /c  1963 to 1970;    /d  Including esidwives            Is  Total, hoapital bed inrosplete.
10O0T RECENT ESTTIMATE:    /a  1970-75;    lb  1976;    Ic  1971;    Id  1968 to 1975;    /n  Mostly unemployed wsrkers seeking their
first job;    /f  Inrose recipientr         a   Including  midwives;    /h  1972;    Li  lo years and over,
ability to read or write In either  atis or  ano-L.tin rhararters         ts;   o Not  -rpas-ble with 1970.
OANILADRSH      1970    /a  The 1970-75 population growth rate is a                Insrsally low doe to the effocts of the war of independence and nasa population
=overests across the borders during that period.  Presently, the average population growth rate is eati ated at 3%
per annuo,    lb  Ratio Of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    Ic  1966-67;    Id  1967-68;
le  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    If  Goverrunest hospital establishments only;    aR  Approxirate
enrollaent as perrentage of population in 6-10 and 11-15 age groups.
NDI            1970    Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and oven to labor force age 15 and over;    lb  1967-68;    /c  Including midwives;
/d 1967.
PHILIPPINES    1970    Ia  As percentage of eMploy=ent;   lb  Not including private vocational schools.
R16, Nay 5, 1977
DRF'INTrTLfi OF SOCL',L INMICATORS
L-nd Area (thou k02)                                                                      Population Per nursing person - Population divided by nmeber of practicing
Total - Totol surf.ac arca  -aprising land area and inland waters.                          rale ad female graduate nooses, "tr-ined" or "certified" nones, and
Aric. - Most rarest catiuato of sgricultsral area sued temporarily or perne-               aseillary personnel with training or experiesce.
tently for crops, pastures, market 6 kitches gardens or to lie fallo.                   Ppaslatia ser hospital bad - Population divided by nu=b-r of ho-pital bsds
available in public and privet- general and specialized hospital and
GNP per rapits (Us$) - GNP put .apit. estimatns at corront anrkt prices,                    rehabilitstion centers; secludes nur-ing hones and eatabliahments for
caloelaced by same converio- method as World bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                  custodial ad prevesrive sara.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                              Per capita supply of calories (E of ressirssents) - Cosaputed fra energy
equivalent of net food suppliea svailsbls in -oentry per .apit. per day;
Population and vi     -tistc~                                                                vailable supplies ocnpri-- do-eatir prodoatior, ibpets less espert,, asd
Population (mid-year nillion)   As of July first:  if not available, average                rhaeges in stsk-; set supplies entluds astral feed, seeds, quantities used
Of two ond-yesr estirtses; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                      in food proceseing and losses in diatribution; tequiresentr were estiuated
by PAO based on physiolngi-al needs for noonal activity and health sonsid-
PoPulation density - Per qbare kh  - Mid-year population per square kilonentr               ering esoinomoantl temperature, body weights, age end sea distributions of
(100 h-teuret) of total area.                                                            population, asd allowing 10% for waste at household level.
Population density - pet square ho of aeris. land - Conputed as above for                 per capita aupply sf protein (grCas per day) - Protein content of per .apica
agricultural land only.                                                                   nt supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; requiro-
meets for all countries established by U1DA Econouic Research Seryices
Vital statistics                                                                            provide for s ninimau  alloa nce of 60 grso of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate pe- thousand. a          Averss - Annual live births per thousand of       20 gras of animal and pulse prootin, of which 10 gross should be animal
oid-ysar populftioc; ten-yea  arithlmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,               protein; these standards are loer than those of 75 grass of total protein
sod fivs-year averags ending in 1975 for m-at resent estlate.                             and 23 gral cf aeinal protein so as average for the  erld, proposed by FAO
Crude death rats ner thousand. averas - Annual deaths Per thousand of mid-year              in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-              per --Pita Pnotis sureply fra animal and pulan - Protein supply of food
year aver-ge ending in 1975 for soat recent estimate,                                     derived froa anials ad pulses in gnafs  per day.
mOf-e mortality rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infansr  under ens year of age            Death r te (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age grop 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                 years, to children is this age group; sngseeted as an indicator of
Life en.oetanev at birth (Cr.) - Average nanber of years of life reaining at                vl-utrition.
birth; susuily fite-year averages cnding is 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing -o,cries.                                                                           Education
Gross reproduction rate - Averags nurb r of live daughters .  vo=as  will bear            Adiuated e 1rollasent ratio - prlsary school - Enrollaset of a11 ages as pr-
in her .oral reprodsctive period if she esperiences present age-specific                 cennage of pnisray school-age population; includes childron aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; "ua lly five-year averages lnding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for develspig countris.                                                                   siveonal sdora.tin, enrollment may extend 1007w. liot  sas pupils see bdoy
Pop.l.tiao  growth rats (m- total - Capound annual growth rates of eid-yesr                 or above the official  nhool age.
populotion for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                            Adiuated enollment r-tio - -aacOdarv school - Caputed on above; secondary
Population srowth rate (%1 - urban - Conputed like growth rate of toral                     education requires at least four yers  of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urben areas may affect  sapas-bility of              provides goearel, vocational or traser troining isattuctions for pupils
data apong canntrios.                                                                     of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally  ecluded.
Urhba population (% of total) - Ratio sf urban to trotl population; different             years of aeaslina erovided (ilr st  d eac-ad levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas nay affect conparability of data pang cquni.                   seboeling; at secondary level, vs.atiaonl ipatrutin  ay  bs partially an
cyxpleteiiy setcluded
Aoe otrctura (Percent) - Children (0-14 years), wrking-age (15-64 years),                 vocatiasl enrollent (2 of secondary) - Vocotial inaniruriena include
and retired (65 years asd oven) as psr.entagot of aid-year population.                    technical, industrial or s br progr   which operate independently or as
Ann dereardency ratio  - saris of ppoplaion under 15 ond 65 and over to those               departments of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                  Adult literary rate (e) - Lit p ato  dulcss (able to read  nd write) as per-
cresaic  onenensyrati  -Ratio of Population coder 1) and 65 snd over to              centage sf statl aduit Population aged I) years and oven.
the labor force in ago grasp of 15-64 years.
Ftll  olannic - ac-etors   (th-clativo, thou) - Caunlative number of acceptors            Housin
of birth--ootrol dovices unden auspices of national faily planning progra               Perona  per soon (urban) - Average rusber of peraons per ron   in occupied
Fsnile pla tin. -                                                                           onnventionsl dwellings in urben arsa; dwellings exclude .on-penasnest
faiypanis -soer, (. sf marriedsa )   P-Peratagna of married was  of                    structures and unacupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who -se birth-control devices to all  arried            0c.u.pid dwellines without pixd water (%) - Occupied conventional dwallings
wuson  is tune age group.                                                                 in urban ad rural areas without inside  r outside piped water facilities
as percentags of all occupied dwellings.
Total  bor f       (theusd) - E-ei-ly .cti- pr-, i-l.di                                   a s to electricity (1 of all dwellings) - Convetiona) dwellings with
fores and fnerplsyed but eclding  ose         s, students  er; definition  c                lr.y  n   vg qrters as peet f total d                    g  in urban and
is various tour tries are 50t ccsparabl.                                                R-a wlig  oocted to e1-tronity C)-Coaputed as shov  far noral
labor forro is airirsltsrs Cl) - Agriluttural labor forte (is faring, foreatry,             dwelings only.
hunting sod fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
nnplsyad (% of labor forte) - Unemployed are usually defined as peraos who                Casmeptimp
are sbl end willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, renein.d out           Radio neivera txr tbou nor) - All types of receivers for r dis broadrost
of a psb, and seeking work for n   speifind   W.niime  period noc  eaceeding ann          to general public per thousand of population; excludes onlicaned receivers
week; nay sot be caparable between .ountri.a due to different dofinitioas                  in routntis  and in years when regierrarion of road   ets we In  ffect
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, s.-ple              data for recent yasD nay not be caparable since most cnatriis a slishod
as.u-ys, cpoplasry unemplayment insrance                                                   licensing.
PaI'e.er car Cent thau son) - Passenger cars ocaPrise  tastr cran  seating
Incoe distribution - percentage of private incJ s (both in cash  nd kind)                   lss  th eight peratou; eop-ude assbnlrars, haoressand nilineary
received by riehest 5%, richesC 20%, poorest 20%, and po0reac 40% of hons.-               vehicles.
holds.                                                                                  Electricity (kuh/yr per sap) - Annual consaeption of industrial, c rcial,
public an  privare electricity in bilpatt hours per cpita, generally
fliatibstss o  lan  oseerebi -  Prcesageeaf ld ownd by woalthisot 107.          base d on peodurtise data, wituralensfrossingdshtll-
end poorest 107, of saud ownrs.                                                                                         tyb o  mpea  n  ep tof elent...nisity.  ut   J_
health sod Nutrition                                                                      N-Pewerint (ba/ Mr per sap) - Per capite annual eassaption in kilagreas
P ithii   - Populatio  divided by nub- of pract                                              est ted P   domestic pradotion plu- net ipports of newsprint.
physician  qualifled fra a medical achool at auivenity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 nages
INDONESIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mil         %                         1960 *-65           1965 _70           1971-75
GNP at Market Prices            28,146       100.0                           1. 9               4.9                 7.1
Gross Domestic Investment        6,891        24.5                           3.3               11.5                17.1
Gross National Saving            5,634        20.0                           5.8                5.1
Current Account Balance         -1,257      -  4.5
Exports of Goods, NFS            4,738        16.8                           1.5i                7.8                6.5
Imports of Goods, NFS            5,533        19.7                           0.2               10.9                27.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added 1-                 Labor Force--/                   V. A. Per Worker
US Hi'         %                  Mil          _                    US $
Agriculture                      4.221       44.8                 30.5       69.0                   138          65.0
Industry                         1,915       20.3                  3.0        6.8                   638         300.0
Services                         3,279       34.9                  8.3       18.8                   395         185.0
UnaIlocated                        -          -                    2.4        5.4
Total/Average
9,415     100.0                 442 
GOVERNMDfT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rp Bil.)                       -    % of GDP
1976/77*        1975/76                   1i975          1974
Current Receipts                      2,904           2,201                    J.8.1          17.0
Current Expenditure                   1,613           1,247                    10.2           10.2
Current Surplus                       1,291             954                     7.8            7.7
Capital Expenditures                  2,070           1,425                    11.7            9.8
External Assistance                     784             492                     4.0             2.4
^ Provisional estimates.
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1971          1972         1973         1974         1975         1976
-(Billion Rp outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                        469           695          987        1,452         1,995        2,645
Bank credit to Public Sector                 387           333          357          412        1,637         1,752
Bank Credit to Private Sector                317           500          908        1,163        1,353         1,690
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             12.8          15.2          14.6         14.8         16.4
General Price Index (Sept. 1966 - 100)    642              807        1,028        1,370         1,640        1,873
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                            2.6           25.7         27.4         33.3         19.7         14.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                   *-          -14.0           7.2        15.4         297.3          7.0
Bank credit to Private Sector                  *-           57.7         81.6         28.1          16.3         24.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 390 = US$1.
2 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
April 30, 1977



ANNEX I
Pace 4 of 4 Pages
TRADE PATMENTS AND CAPITAL FLObB
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1974     1975      1976                                                  US $ Mil    %
(Millions IfS$)    Provisional
Exports:                        4351      4738     6033                 Oil (net)                          1897      50.4
Oil (net)                     2169      2921     3650                 Rubber                              416      11.0
Non oil                       2182      1817     2383                 Timber                              602      16.0
Imports                        -4220    -5533    -6297                  Palm oil                            132       3.5
Resource gap                   131    - 795    -264                   Tin                                 138       3.7
Factor service:                - 210    - 462    - 781                  Coffee                               99       2.6
Interest                     -  64    - 178    - 354
Investment income            - 146    - 284    - 427                 All other commodities                483      12.8
Balance on Current Account   -  79    -1257    -1045                         Total                         3767    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        462      497       432              EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                664      2395      2365                                                           US $ Mil
Amortization               -  80    - 322    - 435
Subtotal                     584      2073      1930                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             10,140
Capital Grants                    62      ..        ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           - 126    -2250    - 205                  Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             - 214    -  46    -_375                                             1/
Increase in Reserves (+)        689    - 983        737              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976
Gross Reserves (end year)       1473      590      1494
Net Reserves   (end year)       1472      489      1226                 Public Debt. incl. guaranteed               13.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          4      120       152
of which:  Petroleum           1      116       146
Exports
of which:  Petroleum        2169     2921      3650        IBRD/IDA LENDING  Oftrch 31, l977)v Million US$
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                           IBRD         IDA
hrou_h JuLly 1971               Since  August 1971               Outstanding & Disbursed                254.4       423.5
Throjh July 1975                Sic0Agst17                       Undisbursed                            901.1       138.3
Rp 1000   = US$2.67             Rp 1000   = US$2.41              Outstanding  cin. Undisbursed    1,155.5           561.8
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies)
, not available
. not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
April 30, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1977)
Loan/                                                             US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                                          Amounts (less cancellations)
Number     Year               Purpose                      Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Ten  credits closed                                                 113.4        0.0
155       1969    Agricultural Estates                               16.0        0.1
194       1970    Second Agricultural Estates                        17.0        0.5
195       1970    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation                   18.5        0.5
220       1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                    14.5        0.9
246       1971    Seeds                                               7.5        1.5
259       1971    Tea                                                15.0        2.7
260       1971    Second Highway                                     34.0        0.7
288       1972    Second Education                                    6.3        1.3
289       1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                   12.5        0.7
300       1972    Population                                         13.2        6.6
310       1972    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)                10.0        0.7
318       1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                   8.5        2.3
319       1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                        11.0        4.7
334       1973    Second Electricity Distribution                    40.0        4.5
355       1973    Beef Cattle Development                             3.6        1.6
358       1973    North Sumatera Smallholder                          5.0        1.6
Development
387       1973    Third Education                                    13.5        8.4
388       1973    Third Highway                                      14.0        2.8
399       1973    West Java Thermal Power                            46.0       13.2
400       1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                  7.8        7.0
405       1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                      50.0        8.1
428       1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.5       10.8
436       1974    Private Development Finance Co. of Ind,onesia
(PDFCI)                                         10.0        6.3
451       1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.0        4.2
479       1974    Bali Tourism                                       16.0       14.6
480       1974    Fisheries Credit                                    6.5        3.3
514       1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     30.0       28.7



ANNEX II
Page 2
Loan/                                                               (US$ Million)
Credit    Fiscal                                           Amounts (less cancellations)
Number     Year                  Purpose                      Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1005      1974    Railway                                     48.0              35.0
1040      1975    Jakarta Urban Development                   25.0               8.0
1049      1975    Five Cities Water Supply                   14.5               12.3
1054      1975    Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II)    50.0                  24.6
1089      1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.0               10.9
1100      1975    Sixth Irrigation                           65.0               60.2
1127      1975    Fourth Power                               41.0               31.9
1139      1976    Fertilizer Distribution                    68.0               20.9
1179      1976    Agricultural Research and Extension        21.5               21.5
1197      1976    National Resource Survey and Mapping    13.0                  12.9
1236      1976    Fourth Highway                            130.0              127.9
1237      1976    Fourth Education                           37.0               36.1
1250      1976    Second Shipping                            54.0               54.0
1254      1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.0               42.6
1259      1976    Fifth Power                                90.0               90.0
1267      1976    National Food Crops Extension              22.0               22.0
1268      1976    Seventh Irrigation                         33.0               31.8
1318      1977    Transmigration & Rural Development         30.0               30.0
1336      1977    Second Urban Development                   52.5               52.5
1337      1977    Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0               32.0
1363      1977    Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)             15.0              15.0
1365 /a   1977    Sixth Power                               116.0              116.0
1373      1977    Nutrition Development                      13.0               13.0
Total                                  1,155.5   561.3  1,039.4
of which has been repaid                 0.9      0.0
Total now outstanding                  1,154.6   561.3
Amount sold                    0.1
of which has been repaid   0.0           0.1      0.0
Total now held by
Bank & IDA /b                        1,154.5   561.3
Total undisbursed                        901.1   138.3  1,039.4
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                                           US$ Million
Year                                                      Loan   Equity   Total
1971       P. T. Semen Cibinong            Cement          10.6     2.5      13.1
1971       P. T. Unitex                    Textiles         2.5     0.8       3.3
1971       P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles         2.0     0.5       2.5
1971       P. T. Kabel Indonesia           Cable            2.8     0.4       3.2
1972       P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles         4.5      1.5      6.0
1973       P. T. Jakarta Int. Hotel        Tourism         11.0      -       11.0
1973       P. T. Semen Cibinong            Cement           5.4     0.7       6.1
1974       P. T. Primatexco
Indonesia                Textiles         2.0     0.3       2.3
1974       P. T. Monsanto Pan              Electronics      0.9      -        0.9
1974       P. T. PDFCI                     Devl. Fin. Co.   -       0.5       0.5
1974       P. T. Kamaltex                  Textile          2.4     0.6       3.0
1976       P. T. Semen Cibinong            Cement           5.0     1.5       6.5
1976       P. T. Semen Cibinong            Cement            -      1.1       1.1
1977       P. T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.             Textiles         0.2       -       0.2
Total                                          49.3    10.4       59.7
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelle.1            22.3     1.7      24.0
Total held by IFC                              27.0      8.7      35.7
Undisbursed (including participants
portion)                                    3.1      0.4      3.5



ANNEX II
Page 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Cr. No. 155 Agricultural Estates: US$16 Million Credit of June 20,
1969; Effective Date: December 10, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
The credit is fully committed.
Cr. No. 194 Second Agricultural Estates: US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Project progress is good in the oil palm group which has surpassed
the appraisal report target for new planting by 100%. Progress in the rubber
group has been unsatisfactory with only 50% of the appraisal report target
for new planting achieved. Planting costs are excessive and investment
planning weak. The project has suffered from management deficiencies and
shortage of funds for investment. The Minister of Agriculture has recently
made the necessary changes in management of the rubber group and the Govern-
ment is expected to review its financial policies, particularly with regard
to dividends.
Cr. No. 195 Second Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closing Date: November 30, 1977.
Progress has been delayed first by initial difficulties in equipment
procurement and civil works execution, and later, by rising construction costs.
Project completion will therefore be about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. The
rehabilitated and new facilities are technically sound and hydraulically
adequate. The quality of maintenance of completed works is improving with
the availability of operation and maintenance funds substantially higher than
previous levels. The credit is about 96% disbursed and the remaining funds
will finance all outstanding civil works. The estimated project cost has
more than doubled since appraisal due to high inflation rates and increases in
contract quantities, but the estimated economic rate of return remains satis-
factory because rice prices and yields have been higher than those projected
during appraisal.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 220 Third Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6, 1970; Effective Date: blay 28, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Overall project completion is expected by October 1977, about two
years behind schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties
in preparation of contract documents, late financial allocations, heavy
rains in the 1973 construction season and, more recently high inflation rates
and consequent civil works cost overruns - have been mainly overcome, but
time lost cannot be regained. The quality of maintenance of completed works
is improving with the availability of operation and maintenance funds sub-
stantially higher than previous levels. The estimated project cost is about
twice the appraisal estimate, but rice prices and yields substantially higher
than those projected at appraisal enable the project to achieve an estimated
economic rate of return of over 20%.
Cr. No. 246 Seeds: US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19, 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Construction of the irrigation infrastructure and the seeds proces-
sing plant has been completed satisfactorily. Land development at Sukamandi
will be limited to about 1,600 ha (65% of appraisal estimates) by the Closing
Date to enable the project authorities to consolidate production and other
operations. Significant results for 1976/77 are expected to be: (a) area
under production - 1,800 ha (58% of the appraisal estimate), (b) yields of
rice seed - 3.5 tons per ha (87%), and (c) production of certifi'Rd seed -
4,900 tons (42%). Due mainly to the delay in the development of irrigation
infrastructure, and partly to overly optimistic assumptions during appraisal,
the targets for per ha yield and certified seed production will not be
achieved by September 1977. Due to cost escalation and implementation
difficulties, only one seed multiplication district, out of the three planned
at appraisal, has been developed. Based on present: levels of production the
National Seeds Corporation (NSC) is not commercially viable and will need
continued financial support from the Government. The future of the project
and of NSC depend on Government policy for the further development of the
seed industry.
Cr. No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded appraisal expec-
tations necessitating construction and rehabilitation of three additional
factories. Project completion, estimated for December 1977, can probably be
advanced. Rising costs are creating pressure on available funds and the main
challenge for the two PTPs will be to reduce working capital requirements,
as well as overlhead and indirect costs, and improve labor productivity.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 260 Second Highway: US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10. 1971: Closing Date:
December 31,1978.
Quality of work is satisfactory and cost overruns have been relatively
small despite sharp price increases due to efforts to reduce construction
quantities, and to cost savings for consulting services. Construction work
is completed; however, postponement of the Closing Date to December 31, 1978
has been agreed to permit payments for the completion of detailed engineering
of the Padang-Medan Road, the initiation of which was delayed to reconsider
road design standards in relation to those recently developed for the highway
betterment program and to take into account IDA's recommendations regarding
standards for urban portions of the road.
Cr. No. 288 Second Education: US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 30, 1978.
The project is about 12 months behind schedule because of late
appointment of consultant architects and lack of funds to meet cost overruns.
The main causes of delay have been overcome and significant progress is being
made. All civil works are expected to be completed by September 1977. Furni-
ture and equipment are being delivered. The expert services are virtually
completed. Progress of the fellowship program and teacher training is satis-
factory. The Government has made budgetary provisions to meet the cost
overruns. Disbursements have improved. Delayed implementation required
postponement of the Closing Date by 15 months to March 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 190% over the
appraisal estimate due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and price
escalation due to unexpected inflation. The bulk of the remaining work will
be accomplished largely with Government funds. Completion of the project is
expected by September 1978.  The Government has therefore, requested that the
Closing Date be postponed to December 31, 1978. Feasibility studies
included in the project have been completed and groundwater investigations
are nearing completion.
Cr. No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The national family planning program, of which the project is an
integral part, is expanding in terms of the numbers of new acceptors recruited
annually and now covers about 15% of all married women in the reproductive
age group. Implementation of the civil works component is now on schedule;
because of the shift in strategy from static to mobile services, and because
of a large scale Government-financed program to construct and rehabilitate



ANNEX II
Page 7
Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning centers, t:he Government has
requested a reduction in the number of centers to be constructed under the
project, to which IDA and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities
(as partners in jointly financing the project) have agreed.
Cr. No. 310 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I): JS$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: August 31, 1977.
Prior to the original Closing Date which was December 31, 1976,
about $700,000 remained undisbursed and the Closing Date has been postponed to
August 31, 1977 to allow time for BAPINDO to submit documents for reimbursement.
Cr. No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
At the request of the Government the Closing Date has been post-
poned to September 30, 1978 in order to provide for several new projects of
ship rehabilitation. It is expected that the Credit will be fully disbursed
by the new Closing Date but that, due to sharply increased costs, just over
half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal -will have been rehabili-
tated.
Cr. No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Physical progress of the project which is being executed by PNP X,
a Government-owned estate group, continues to be satisfactory, with plantings
of rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
Coffee is a promising crop, and cloves planted in 1974 are growing well. A
hybrid coconut seed garden has been established, the first in Indonesia. PNP X
management needs to pay more attention to cost control and financial planning.
Substantial cost increases have taken place largely due to an expansion in the
size of the program compared with appraisal estimates. The Government has
agreed to provide part of the shortfall in project funding and discussions
with the Government are proceeding on a proposed increase in the budgetary
allocation. PNP X is participating in the execution of smallholder develop-
ment under the Transmigration and Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND)
and the proposed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project.
Cr. No. 334 Second Electricity Distribution: US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND and
334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays due to procure-
ment problems and cumbersome management procedures.. As a result the project is



ANNEX II
Page 8
two years behind the original schedule. These difficulties have been resolved
and recent progress is encouraging and no further delays are expected. The
Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project implementation.
Government's budget allocation has been insufficient, and financial manage-
ment and coordination have been weak. The last supervision mission undertook
a thorough project review and its recommendations, which include major changes
in project scope and objectives, are being prepared for consideration by the
Executive Directors.
Cr. No. 358 North Sumatera Smallholder Development: US$5 million Credit of
February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The project's goals of oil palm and rubber plantings by smallholder
participants should be completed by the end of 1977 at the present rate of
progress, which is now ahead of schedule. Costs of the project have increased
from $10 million estimated at appraisal to about $26 million by completion
date. However, higher than anticipated output of and prices for rubber and
palm oil and changes in project development techniques have more than compen-
sated the cost increases, and the project's return to the economy is likely
to be higher than anticipated at appraisal. No effective mechanism for the
credit-assisted portion of the project has yet been developed.
Cr. No. 387 Third Education: US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks, and related in-service training for 350,000 primary
school teachers. Distribution of the first 31 million textbooks has been
completed and they are beginning to be used in schools this year. Production
of 49 million textbooks scheduled for 1976 is well under way. Book delivery
has been improved and teaching equipment has been procured and delivered.
Teacher training continues to proceed on schedule. Project management has
been strengthened by addition of Indonesian staff to a reorganized project
unit, and by recruitment of specialists under a technical assistance contract
signed with UNESCO.
Cr. No. 388 Third Highway: US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections included
An th egEoAff ygsmgtfl~e#es                M   n  ei& &       se, a



ANNEX II
Page 9
and extra amounts of unforeseen work. The project is 50% complete and the
Closing Date will probably have to be postponed by one year. Project costs
are likely to exceed original estimates by 80% mainly due to sharply escalated
prices. As a consequence, the disbursement rate for construction is now in
the process of being lowered. The training program has been successfully
completed. Feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the road bet-
terment program are nearing satisfactory completion.
Cr. No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date:  August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 MW units at Muara Karang were
about 65% higher than estimated at the time of appraisal. This, together
with construction cost increases, has resulted in an increase in the total
project cost of more than 100%. Government will provide the additional funds
required. PLN has satisfactorily met the initial targets in its financial
recovery plan provided for under the terms of the Credit Agreement.
Cr. No. 400  Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Fewer than anticipated credit applications have necessitated scaling
down project targets from 10,000 ha to about 6,000 ha for smallholder tea and
from 3,500 ha to 2,300 ha for estates tea. The dLemand by farmers for technical
assistance has been encouraging. Over 3,000 farmers have been instructed in
tea cultivation at village level courses and at the Project Management Unit
(PMU) training center. The project spin-off has been excellent; about 2,000 ha
of tea were replanted or rehabilitated using funds outside the credit program
but still under the influence of the PMU. A marketing study indicates that
tea consumption in Indonesia increases by 5% yearly and all of the tea produced
by the project will be consumed domestically. Tea prices at farm level are
well above appraisal estimates which is part of the reason why farmers have
been reluctant to apply for long-term credit.
Cr. No. 405  Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: ApriLl 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The scope of the project has been reduced by the deletion of six
minor rehabilitations from the project description due to cost overruns.
The revised project consists of the major rehabi:Litation of two factories
and the construction of a new factory together with associated agricultural
development, sugar research and technical assistance components. Due to
late project start-up and delays in arranging consultancy services, project
completion will be delayed by one year. Factory construction and rehabili-
tation is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The estate is developing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha earmarked for
the project, about 270 ha had been acquired by September 1976, and 128 ha had
been developed for occupation. Seventy-four factories are located on the
estate of which 37 are operating and 37 are in various stages of construction
or commission. Factory employment is 16,275 and an estimated 1,400 are
employed on average in both factory construction and land development.
Overall, operations are profitable.
Cr. No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PDFCI): US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Despite a long start-up period and difficulties in recruiting
qualified staff, the project has progressed satisfactorily. The Credit is
almost fully committed.
Cr. No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Project implementation has improved after initial difficulties.
The evaluations of project tenders have been approved by IDA. Infrastructure
construction started in July 1976 and completion is scheduled for October
1979. Budgetary allocations as requested by the Bali Tourism Development
Corporation for FY76/77 are satisfactory. Preliminary discussions with three
potential hotel investors are underway. Promotional efforts to attract addi-
tional investors and tourists have been intensified, and additional flights
from Sydney and Hong Kong to Bali have been approved by the Minister of
Communications and Tourism.
Cr. No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the project as a whole has generally been
progressing satisfactorily. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is



ANNEX II
Page 11
nearing completion. Boat construction is underway and the contract for equip-
ment has been awarded. The quality of lending for fiLshpond development needs
to be improved although lending for this component in terms of the number of
subborrowers and Prea covered had met targets envisaged during appraisal.
Bidding for ice plant construction should start soon. The justification for
the trawler subproject is being reviewed by the Government.
Cr. No. 514  Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:  US$30 Mlillion Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and a delay in awarding the
first construction contract caused a delay of about 1L8 months in the project
schedule. The first construction contract was awarded in February 1977, the
next four are scheduled for November 1977, and the last two for May 1978.
From a revision of bid prices for the first contract, the total cost of civil
works is now estimated to be about 40% higher than art the time of the last
review of project progress.  The total project cost has increased about 130%
since appraisal in May 1974.
Loan No. 1005 Railway: US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement of material and equipment, which had been slow due to
poor organization and inadequate budget allocation, has now improved. The
bulk of the contracts have been signed.  Passenger traffic in 1975 was
slightly lower than in 1974, but still higher than forecast; freight traffic
has continued to decline due mainly to poor maintenance and inadequate motive
power. Efforts are being made to strengthen the effectiveness of the technical
assistance program and to more closely monitor project developments. Although
tariffs were raised in May 1975, increasing passenger revenues by about 25%
and freight revenues by about 10%, the operating ratio is likely to deteriorate
further, as operating costs have continued to rise at an even faster rate.
Loan No. 1040  Jakarta Urban Development:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded as compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 15 months behind
schedule. This is primarily due to land acquisition problems encountered in
the early stages of the project. Project costs are expected to be about 7%
above the appraisal estimate. The allocation of plots and core houses is
expected to begin in July. Some problems have arisen with regard to the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots, and these are being
reviewed currently by the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14C5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21. 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is
running 13-18 months behind schedule. This delay together with higher rates
of inflation than anticipated is expected to increase project costs 25-30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed and the project has reached its construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering and the
establishment and development of local water enterprises are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1054 Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II): US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1978.
The loan is expected to be fully committed in the second quarter of
1977. Despite significant institutional improvements achieved by BAPINDO,
the company has still a high level of arrears; its appraisal work is slow and
administrative costs are excessive. These problems are being addressed
through a Program of Action discussed and agreed between the Government,
BAPINDO and the Bank.
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
The Project (PUSRI III) was mechanically completed in December 1976,
one month ahead of schedule. As there was a slight delay in the completion
of the related gas project, the gas requirement of PUSRI III for start-up
during November 15, 1976 - January 7, 1977 was met by advancing the scheduled
shutdown of PUSRI II for annual maintenance by two months. Meanwhile, the
PUSRI III gas system has been completed. Total cost of PUSRI III is expected
to be within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100 Sixth Irrigation: US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Most of the project programs have advanced well during the first
year of operation. Design of works for the Cirebon and Rentang subproject
systems are beyond the capability of PROSIDA to execute, and assistance will
be provided in Irrigation VIII to expedite this work. Critical review of the
program for benefit monitoring is underway.



ANNEX II
Page 13
Loan No. 1127 Fourth Power: US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project provides for the expansion of the Muara Karang thermal
power station at Jakarta by addition of a third 100 MW generating unit. The
general construction contracts covering this unit as well as the first two
financed under Credit 399-IND have been awarded. The project is on schedule
and expected to be completed in early 1980.
Loan No. 1139 Fertilizer Distribution: US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
All the contracts for the original project have been let and most
materials and three ships have been delivered to Indonesia. Savings of about
$30 million were realized in the original project. Procurement of an
additional ship and bulk reception facilities to servie expansion of fertilizer
output beyond that anticipated at appraisal was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1977. The expanded project is underway and is likely
to be completed successfully by the revised Closing Date, postponed by one
year.
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension: U-S$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project implementation is one year behind schedule due to problems
in the appointment of executive architects for detailed design and supervision
of construction of the research centers and of the consultant firm which will
provide research and extension specialists. However, the pace of implementa-
tion has recently improved; the contract for research and extension services
was signed in February 1977 and negotiations with the architects are in
progress.
Loan No. 1197 National Resource Survey and Mapping Project: US$13.0
Million Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project agency, BAKOSURTANAL, has made considerable progress
since the Loan was signed. Several senior staff required for administration
and project procurement have been appointed and preLiminary designs for
project facilities have been co:apleted. Preparation of equipment specifica-
tions and planning of aerial photography operations to support detailed
resource surveys of the southern Sumatera region are also proceeding.



ANNEX II
Page 14
Loan No. 1236  Fourth Highway Project:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Contracts have been signed or awarded for the construction of the
first package of roads totalling 585 km and for nine consultancy assignments.
Progress is about six to nine months behind the initial project implementa-
tion schedule, mainly due to the unforeseen bunching of many activities
(negotiations for the consultancy assignments, prequalification of contrac-
tors, tendering, etc.) and a general shortage of staff to deal with the
rapidly increasing work load.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education Project: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Project implementation units have been established and the team
leaders for technical assistance are in place. Contracts with the consultant
architects have been signed. Site selection and acquisition are generally
satisfactory with some exceptions due to difficult site conditions and higher
site costs. The project is about 10 months behind schedule due to initial
delay in the appointment of consultant architects and signing of agreements
with UN agencies for technical assistance. The problems causing delays are
being followed up with the Government agencies concerned.
Loan No. 1250  Second Shipping Project:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976: Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The appointment of a number of consultants has been delayed which
could cause a lag in the implementation of the project. The financial
position of the state shipping company (PELNI) is unsatisfactory, which may
result in financial problems for the project entity (PANN). The Government
is aware of this potential problem and is considering steps to deal with it.
The project is being closely followed.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion Project: US$70 Million Loan of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Project (PUSRI IV), which is designed to have an annual cap-
acity of 570,000 tons of urea, is about four months ahead of schedule,
but the related gas project is experiencing some delay. Efforts are being
made by the Government to accelerate the gas project. According to present
indications, PUSRI IV is likely to be commissioned in mid-October 1977. No
cost overrun is foreseen for this project.



ANNEX II
Page 15
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power Project: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The procurement of equipment is underway.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension Project; US$22 Million Loan
of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:  September 21, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1268 Seventh Irrigation Project: US$33 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have completed the prequalification for
contractors and consultants and the project is ahead of schedule in the North
Sadang area, in the mapping program and in preparation of the construction
schedule for tertiary development.
Loan No. 1318 Transmigration and Rural Development Project: US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: February 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The first village has been constructed, and the first settlers moved
from Java in October 1976.
Loan No. 1336  Second Urban Development Project:  US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of sch,edule, and costs are
generally within the estimates. Progress is being made in developing Govern-
ment capabilities in undertaking a nation-wide kampung improvement program in
the future.
Loan No. 1337 Tanjung Priok Port Project: US$32 MilLion Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date:  March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Final design by consultants is proceeding and the contract for
supply of container cranes has been let.



ANNEX II
Page 16
Loan No. 1363  Second PDFCI Project:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977: Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
This loan became effective on April 21, 1977.
Loan No. 1365  Sixth Power Project:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4. 1977,
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
This loan is expected to become effective by June 1977.
Loan No. 1373  Nutrition Development Project:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
This loan became effective on March 31, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA: NINTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                $35 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, with
interest at 8.20% per annum.
Project Description:  Major components of the project are:
(a) completion of the rehabilitation and improvement
of irrigation and flood control and drainage works
of the 30,000 ha Semarang-Demak-Kudus (SEDEKU)
irrigation system in Central Java, including ter-
tiary development on 17,000 ha;
(b) construction of the initial stage (3,500 ha) of the
20,000 ha Sungai Dareh-Sitiung irrigation system in
West Sumatera; feasibility study for the remaining
16,500 ha and, subject to agreement of the Government
and the Bank, detailed engineering and preparation of
tender documents; and
(c)  studies, surveys, investigatLons and mapping of nine
small- to medium-sized irrigation projects in Java,
Sumatera and Sulawesi.
In addition, the project makes provision for consultant
services and for procurement of vehicles and equipment.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Project Costs:         The table below summarizes the cost of the project.
% of
Local     Foreign    Total       Foreign Exchange
--------($ million)-------
SEDEKU                           14.5       12.2       26.7             46
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung              4.9        6.2       11.1             56
Studies and investigations        2.0        4.3        6.3             68
Base cost                      21.4       22.7       44.1             51
Physical contingencies            4.3         4.4       8.7             51
Expected price increases          5.5        5.7       11.2             51
Total project cost             31.2       32.8       64.0             51
Financing Plan:        The proposed loan of $35 million would finance the
foreign exchange cost of the project plus an estimated
$2.2 million of local costs.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY      1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   Total
Annual        0.7    9.1   15.1    8.6    1.5    35.0
Cumulative   0.7    9.8   24.9   33.5   35.0
Procurement:      (a)  Vehicles, materials and equipment, costing about
$3.5 million, would be procured after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. For purposes of bid comparisons, quali-
fied domestic manufacturers of these goods would
be given a margin of preference equal to 15% or the
level of customs duties, whichever is less. Small
off-the-shelf items costing less than $10,000 each,
up to an aggregate limit of $100,000, would be
purchased through normal Government procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.



ANNEX III
Page 3
(b) Civil works in both project areas would be divided
into a number of suitable contracts which would be let
to prequalified contractors following usual Government
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Consultants:           The Government would engage consultants who would
work with the various organizations involved in project
implementation to assist in: (i) a review of existing
studies and designs and for mapping, additional surveys,
investigations and studies required to establish the
feasibility of constructing small to medium-sized
irrigation systems on nine proposed sites in Java,
Sumatera and Sulawesi; and (ii) supervision of con-
struction, and preparation of feasibility studies,
detailed design and construction drawings in the
SEDEKU and Sungai Dareh-Sitiung areas.
Economic Rates of
Return:              The weighted economic rate of return for SEDEKU and
Sungai Dareh-Sitiung would be 17%.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 1477a-IND, dated May 5, 1977.
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
INDONESIA: NINTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  four years.
(b)  Project preparation coordinated by DGWRD.
(c)  First presented to the Bank:  1975.
(d)  First mission to consider project:  1Nay 1976.
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  October 1976.
(f)  Follow-up Appraisal:  January 1977.
(g)  Completion of negotiation:  April 25, 1977.
(h)  Planned loan effectiveness:  September 1977.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
A Bank supervision mission is scheduled for September 1977 to
assist in the intial stages of implementation of the project.
Section III: Special Conditions:
(a)  Government to ensure adequate staffing of subproject offices
and to consult with Bank before appointing replacements
for General Manager of PROSIDA or Director of Irrigation
(para. 36).
(b)  Government to engage consultants by December 31, 1977
(para. 37).
(c)  Government to issues necessary land title certificates to
eligible settlers in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung area (para. 38).
(d)  Disbursements for tertiary systems to be made only if
withdrawal application is accompanied by a certificate
from the site engineer stating that quaternary canals
and drains in the tertiary block have also been constructed
(para. 44).
(e) Operation and maintenance (O&M) (paras. 46 and 47):
(i) Water-user associations to be formed in each
tertiary unit of both project areas.



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(ii) Adequate O&M funds to be allocated in future years
for all Bank-assisted irrigation systems.
(iii) At least half of all annual budgeted O&M funds to be
released to subprojects by August 15 of each year, and
the balance in quarterly installments until total annual
allocated amounts are fully released.
(iv) Government to progressively increase number of additional
qualified O&M personnel until adequate staff levels have
been attained.
(v) Government to inform the Bank by December 31 of each year
the proposed number of O&M staff and per ha budget for
each subproject; by June 1 of each following year the
approved O&M budget; and by October 1, the staffing
provisions.
(f) IPEDA Rates (para. 48)
(i) Government to adjust rates at levels consistent with
beneficiaries' capability to pay.
(ii)  Amounts collected to be sufficient to ensure sound O&M
practices and recover a reasonable portion of capital
costs.
(iii) Rates established and collected for different land
classes to be furnished to the Bank every two years for
comments.



IBRD 12642
MARCH 1977
,      KAL I MANTA
br li . tfasu-.J i<M,,: >!.4>            /      X                         X \    A n                      56LAWE~II
ra<2A  \\8e\\               S   }    Zfi~~~~ V A    S E A U   >
A  <N                       ~~~~N
f A Al V
' Xo \\0e=.                   ) -rr, / '~   A~~ S >nSra  
To Kudus
Demak
Dempet
V                    //2   -: <   V    \            I/<               k
BARANG WEIR      J RAUNG Wl\\             \       s<
INDONESIA                             . j5 --  .                     /       /
BARANO WEIR  JRAGUNG   EIR\\ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     GLPANWEI
IRRIGATION PROJECT IX                                             '
SEDEKU SUBPROJECT
EAST SEDEKU IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
Main Canals                                      Dl. Glapan Barat (8140Ha)                             |
Secondary Canals                                 Dl. Guntur (1937 Ha)
Flood Control and Drainage Works         7        D.l Ketitang (849 Ha)
Irrigation Rehabilitation                        D.l. Jragung Pamongan(1505 Ha) 
- - - -   Access and Inspection Road Improvement           D.l. Glapon Setu (1545 Ha)
Rivers and Drains                                D.I Polder Batu (470 Ha)
Roads                                    L        DI. Penggaron (4590 Ha)
Railways                                  i. .    D.I. Dolok (1956Ha)               0       2              6               10
Weirs                                            Dl. Prauwvaart (4300)                             KILOMETERS
rhe budononme,,,  on n monpton    do noh
World B0.k nt snd t fjdmooo



INDONESIA                                                              Irrigation Canals and Structures
IRRIGATION  PROJECT ]X                                                                Resettlement Rice ields
SUNGAI DAREH  SUBPROJECT                                                            indigenous Villages
MCFq InigenousRice Fields
Bere  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NUpland Fields
Roads
tiung                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
0        1         2        3         4
KILOMETERS
G    t    \   0   -   (-t  5 ~~~~~~ <otobo~4r  ngnR
KpSu.   \
PietlPpINts ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ooarni
SIGPORE KAIATA                                                                                     n
SULAWES                                                                                        ... 
:e J ~~A              VA                                Th, b    (     4ilrs th>v-a>I.P Ili sa S 4u  0  ;   00 i 00 
av~~reeto=  Nil/ vdvsl razealsb 1 e   > > i X ;;  >  0  f    j, :,           *      5  ;'
Bn8o4e~~~~~~~~~~~~                       4~~I,4B,,,; 8k  ,dI ffilm



