-77- I
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1435 IND
Loan Agreement
(Ninth Irrigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 6, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 6, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿2
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DGWRD" means the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and
Electric Power;
(b) "PROSIDA" means Proyek Irigasi IDA, an executive body
within DGWRD;
(c) "DOI" means Directorate of Irrigation in DGWRD;
(d)  "SEDEKU Irrigation System" means Semarang-Demak-
Kudus Irrigation System, an irrigation area of about 30,000 ha
located in the East Semarang plain along the North Coast of
the Province of Central Java;


﻿- 3 -
(e) "Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation System" means an
irrigation system covering an area of about 20,000 ha located
along the Batang Hari River in the Province of West Sumatera;
(f) "tertiary network" means an irrigation and drainage
system consisting of tertiary and quartenary canals, drains
and associated structures each such network serving a unit of
.bout 100-200 hectares; and
(g) "IPEDA" means luran Pembangunan Daerah, contributions
for regional development collected from owners of land,
established and operating under Law No. 11/PRP/1959 of the
Borrower and under such regulations as may be passed from time
to time in accordance with said law.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from -ime
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, engineering and financial practices,
as follows:
(i) PROSIDA shall carry out Part A of the Project; and
(ii) DOI shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project.
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose;
(b) Without any restriction or limitation upon its
obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover the budgeted
expenditures estimated by PROSIDA and DOI to be required for
their respective Parts of the Project during each quarter shall be
made available to PROSIDA and DOI, respectively, not later than
thirty days after the first day of each such quarter.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (i) the
preparation of detailed designs and the supervision of construction
under Parts A and b of the Project; and (ii) carrying out Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, not later than December 31,
1977 or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project until its
completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the


﻿-8-
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) The accounts of PROSIDA and DOI which are to be kept
pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement,
shall be audited each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the
Bank shall be furnished with certified copies of such accounts for
such year as so audited and the report of such audit by such
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.06. Without restricting its obligations under
Section 4.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that
adequate credit and agricultural inputs (including fertilizers and
agricultural chemicals) are made available to farmers in all of
the areas to be rehabilitated or constructed under Parts A and B
of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause PROSIDA and DOI
to be at all times adequately staffed with qualified and competent
personnel under the supervision of the General Manager of PROSIDA
and the Director of Irrigation respectively.
(b) Before making any new appointment to the position of
General Manager of PROSIDA or of the Director of Irrigation, the
Borrower shall inform the Bank of the names, qualifications and
experience of the persons considered for such appointment and
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on the qualifications and experience of such persons.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause all canals,
structures, inspection roads, equipment and other facilities
of the Borrower's irrigation systems constructed, extended or
rehabilitated with the financial assistance of the Bank or the


﻿- 12 -
Association to be adequately maintained and repaired, in
accordance with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial
and public utility policies and practices, and shall cause such
action to be taken as shall be reasonably required to ensure the
economic use of the water made available by such systems for
agricultural development and operations.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure, at
all times, that adequate staff are employed and funds allocated
and made available, as and when required, for the proper operation
and maintenance of the irrigation systems referred to under said
paragraph (a). To this end, the Borrower shall: (i) by August 15
in each fiscal year or such other date as the Bank shall agree,
make available to the organization or department charged with
maintenance of any such system, an amount of liquid funds equal
to not less than one half of the amount budgeted for the operation
and maintenance of such system in such fiscal year and shall make
the balance available in equal quarterly installments until all
budgeted amounts have been made available; and (ii) take
appropriate steps to progressively increase the number of
qualified operation and maintenance staff employed by the
organizations and departments charged with operation and
maintenance of the said irrigation systems until adequate staff


﻿- 13 -
levels, established by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank,
have been attained by such organizations and departments.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall inform the Bank: (i) by December 31 of each year of the
proposed cost per hectare for operation and maintenance budgets
and staffing requirements for each such irrigation system; (ii) by
June 1 of each following year, of the approved budgets for each
such irrigation system; and (iii) by October 1 of each following
year, of the staffing provisions for each such irrigation system.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, through the IPEDA, establish and thereafter
maintain and collect, or cause to be established and thereafter
maintained and collected, charges on irrigable agricultural land,
or on the users of the land, serviced by the irrigation systems
rehabilitated or constructed under the Project, at levels con-
sistent with the capability of the beneficiaries to pay said
charges, to (i) cover the cost of sound operation and maintenance
necessary to provide irrigation and drainage for such land, and
(ii) recover over the useful life of the irrigation system a
reasonable portion of the capital expenditures attributable to
such system. To that end, operation and maintenance costs and
capital expenditures for facilities and services which are common
also to other water uses shall be apportioned among the various
users in an equitable manner.


﻿-14 -
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank once every two
years for its comments the IPEDA rates established and collected
for all classes of the Borrower's irrigable agricultural land.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take such action as shall
be necessary to provide adequate agricultural support services in
each of the irrigation systems included in Parts A and B of the
Project, including provision of agricultural extension services
and agricultural inputs (improved seed, fersilizers, agricultural
chemicals and agricultural credit) in order to encourage the
optimum use of irrigation water for agricultural production.
Section 4.06. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that each eligible
settler in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation area receives in a
timely manner such title to the land allocated to him as shall
meet the security requirements of banks operating in the project
area.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall: (i) before the start of
construction of any tertiary network included in Part A or B of
the Project, establish a water-user association to participate
in the construction of such tertiary network and to operate and
maintain such tertiary network after its completion; and (ii)
promptly from the completion of such tertiary network cause such
association to establish and collect from its members contribu-
tions sufficient to cover the cost of sound operation and
maintenance of such tertiary network.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date September 6, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:
MINISTRY FINANCE
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                    60%
(a) PROSIDA             14,400,000
(b) DOI                  3,700,000
(2) Vehicles and
equipment
(a) PROSIDA              1,200,000
(b) DOI                  2,000,000
(i) directly                            100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures
(ii) locally                             95% of local
manufactured                       expenditures
(ex-factory)
(iii) imported                            65% of local
goods pro-                         expenditures
cured lo-
cally (ex-
cluding
vehicles)


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(iv) Vehicles                            40% of local
(locally                           expenditures
procured)
(3) Consulting                                    100%
services
(a) PROSIDA              1,000,000
(b) DOI                  8,300,000
(4) Mapping                   1,000,000           80%
services
(5) Unallocated               3,400,000
TOTAL        35,000,000


﻿20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of


﻿- 21 -
$1,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
expenditures made before that date but after April 1, 1977; and
(ii) payments made for the construction of any tertiary netwo&k
unless the application for such withdrawal is accompanied by
a certificate of the site engineer stating that the quarternary
canals in such network have been constructed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 22 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   SEDEKU Irrigation System Improvements
(i) rehabilitation of about 130 km of primary and
secondary irrigation canals and about 200 division,
control and related canal structures, including
some bridges;
(ii) rehabilitation and improvement of about 100 km
of tertiary irrigation canals, including about
300 structures;
(iii) construction of about 1,200 km of tertiary and
quaternary irrigation canals, 680 km of tertiary
and quaternary drains, and about 1,200 tertiary
and quaternary canal structures;
(iv) construction of about 20 km of canal and riverbank
protection;
(v) excavation of about 110 km of new and existing
flood channels;
(vi) construction and/or rehabilitation of about 25 flap
and automatically controlled flood and drainage
gates;


﻿- 24 -
(vii) construction and/or rehabilitation of about 200 km
of flood embankments and about 70 km of inspection
and access roads;
(viii) rehabilitation and improvement of about 200 km of
telecommunication lines and related facilities;
(ix) construction of staff housing; and
(x) procurement of equipment and vehicles.
Part B:   Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation System Construction
(i) construction of a temporary irrigation water supply
pumping plant with capacity of 5.5 cu m/sec and
lift of 29 m for the 3,500 ha initial phase of the
project;
(ii) constru-tion of about 30 km of primary and about
35 km of secondary canals and about 100 control and
related structures;
(iii) construction of about 50 km of primary and
secondary drainage channels;
(iv) construction of about 55 km of tertiary and
subtertiary canals, about 185 km of quaternary
canals, about 140 km of tertiary and quaternary
drains, and about 350 tertiary and quaternary canal
structures;


﻿- 25 -
(v) construction of about 75 km of inspection and
access roads;
(vi) installation of about 50 km of telecommunication
lines and related facilities;
(vii) construction of a design office in Bandung, field
offices and staff housing; and
(viii) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
1.   A review of existing studies and designs and additional
studies, surveys and investigations of nine small- to
medium-sized irrigation sites in Java, Sumatera and
Sulawesi.
2.   Mapping in the areas covered by Part C.1 of the
Project.
3.   A feasibility study for the extension of the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation System by 16,500 ha and,
subject to the agreement of the Borrower and the Bank,
detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents.
4.   Procurement of equipment and vehicles.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1982
through   November 15, 1996                  1,130,000
On May 15, 1997                                   1,100,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.20%


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of vehicles, equipment and materials shall be procured
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be carried out under contracts awarded in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Bank or by
force account. All such contracts which extend for a period of
more than one year shall include appropriate price escalation
clauses in accordance with the Borrower's existing regulations and
procedures. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such civil
works, except those included in Parts A (ii), A (iii) and B (iv)
of the Project shall be grouped in lots estimated to cost the
equivalent of $125,000 or more. Invitations to bid on such con-
tracts shall be issued, and bids received and processed as soon
as tender documents are completed, and such issuance and process-
ing shall not be delayed until approval by the Borrower of the
project implementation budget (DIP) of the executing agency.


﻿- 29 -
2.   The Borrower may procure items of equipment or vehicles
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 each
without resort to international competition, provided that:
(i) such items of equipment and vehicles are procured on a basis
of reasonable and competitive procurement procedures; and (ii)
the total cost of items of equipment and vehicles procured
pursuant to this subparagraph does not exceed a maximum amount
of the equivalent of $100,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (ii) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 30 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in Indonesia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 31 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 32 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and to all contracts for
vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this


﻿- 33 -
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


