; ., of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8170
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2083-IND)
NOVEMBER 9, 1989
Infrastructure Division
Technical Department
Asia Regional Office
,lis document has a resticted distrnbuon and may be used by  edpients only in the performance of
their offlifll dutdes. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Bank authoizaton.



Country Exchange Rates
(Yearly Averages)
Currency and (Abbreviation)                Rupiah (Rp)
Year                                Rupiahs/US$
1979 (Project Preparation Starts)             623.1
1980                                          627.0
1981 (Project Appraised)                      631.8
1982 (Project Approved and Effective)         661.4
1983                                          909.3 a/
1984                                        1,025.9
1985                                        1,110.6
1986                                        1,282.6 b/
1987                                        1,643.8
1988 (Project Completed)                    1,681.0
Government of Indonesia-Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BAPPENAS - National Planning Agency
DGH      - Directorate General of Highways
DGRD     - Directorate General of Regional Development
(Ministry of Home Affairs)
DPUK     - Kabupaten (District) Public Works Agency
DPUP     - Provincial Public Works Agency
ERR      - Economic Rate of Return
G,I      - Government of Indonesia
ICB      - International Competitive Bidding
MHA      - 'inistry of Home Affairs
MPW      - Ministry of Public Works
PMU      - Project Management Unit
PROSEC   - Project Secretariat
REPELITA - National Development Plan
TA       - Technical Assistance
a/  On March 30, 1983 the Rupiah was devalued from US$1.00 = Rp703
to US$1.00 = Rp970
b/ On September 12, 1986 the Rupiah was devalued from US$1.00 = Rpl,134
to US$1.00 = Rpl,644



FOR omCIAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D:C. 20433
U.S.A.
01k i Oi,etor.Cetwta
Opwatims Evakiutiun
November 9, 1989
MEKORANDUW TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECO RS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia Rural Roads
Develogment Project (Loan 2083-IND)
Attached, for information is a copy of a report entitlad
"Project Completion Report on Indonesia Rural Roads Development
Project (Loan 2083-IND)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office.
Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation
Depastment has not been made.
Attachment
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipionts only in the pofJonnane 
|.of their official dudes. Its contents mnay not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bakauthorization.



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2083-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .............. .........                                  .   .
Evaluation Summary .....................................................ii
Part I      ProJect Review from Bank's Perspective .................    1
Project Identity ............................1  ........... l
Background ..............................................      1
Project Objectives and Description       .      .              2
Project Design and Organization. ..                            3
Project Implementation        ...            .                 5
Project Results.. . . ...  7
Project Sustainability.                .     .    .......      9
Conclusions. ....... . .... . ............                     9
Part II     Project Review from Borrower's Perspective .......     ......  11
Summary ................................................   11
Introduction  ............. ,.                  .00....,    13
Project Implementation               .....               ..  22
Accomplishment of Project O bject              ivs.   37
Total Project Cost and Bank Loan .......................   45
Appendix                   ............. 51
Part III    Statistical Information ... .............................   59
Related Bank Loans and Credits ..........................  59
Project Timetable .................................           60
Loan/Credit Disbursements ...............................     60
Expected and Actual Civil Works Executic..                    61
Expected and Actual Equipment Procured        .      ..       62
Project Costs              ...63
Project Financing          a...                               64
Status of Covenants .....................                     65
Staff Inputs      n        p        u        ts...........   69
Field Mission Data ....                                       69
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of   4 '-  * ,  * I ts      r     '  w' -be,  -    I  'i*  W        ..     I



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL. ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2083-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rural
Roads Development Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2083-IND in the
amount of US$100.0 million was approved on January 12, 1982. The loan
was closed on December 31, 1981, one year behind schedule.   Actual
loan disbursements totalled US$84.5 million, due to the cancellation
of US$15.0 million on March 28, 1985 and of US$0.5 million on the date
of the last disbursement on July 6, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the
Technical Department of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). It was sent on
September 8, 1989, to the Government for comments on the parts drafted
by the Bank. However, no comments were received.
Preparation of the Bank's contribution to this PCR was
started during a mission to the country in November 1988, and is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Loan
Agreement, supervision reports and project files.



- $i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2083-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Bank's support to the highway subsector in Indonesia had
focused, until 1979, on the improvement of the institutions and the road
networks at national and p-ovincial level. A project for the development of
rural roads, badly deteriorated, was a logical step in the Bank's lending
strategy and in direct support to the Government's rural development
objectives. The project was the Bank Group's sixth loan to Indonesia for road
transport and the first for rural roaces (PCR, paras. 2-4).
Obiectives
The project's objectives were the improvement of mobility in 25 of
the  259  kabupatens  in  the  country,  institution  building  at  kabupaten
government level, preparation of support works and maintenance programs, and
establishment of a monitoring system of the above activities (PCR, paras.
4,6,8-13).
To achieve the objectives, the project included civil works of
various nature on about 5100 km  f roads (new construction. betterment and
rehabilitation),  equipment  for  road  construction  and  maintenance  and
mechanical workshops for its maintenance and repairs.   The institutional
objectives, the further dissemination oi a new planning methodology, developed
during project preparation, and the establishment of the monitoring systems
were to be achieved through a combination of staff recruitment and training at
kabupaten level, technical assistance from a task force of GOI senior staff
seconded to the DPUPs,  and consulting services.   The total cost of the
project, structured as a three year time slice of G0I's rural roads program,
was estimated at US$305.2 million of which about 33Z or US$100 million was to
be financed by the Bank loan (PCR, paras. 6-13, 20).
Implementation Experience
Responsibility for project implementation rested primarily with
MHA, assisted in technical matters by MPW. A Project Secretariat (PROSEC), in
charge of managing, coordinating and monitoring the execution of the program,
experienced from the outset serious difficulties due to weak support ftom MHA,
lack of communication and inadequate technical assistance. The situation was
corrected in 1985 by strong and concerted action from GOI and the Bank, with
the reestablishment of PROSEC as Project Management Unit, with adequate
staffing and technical assistance (PCR, paras. 9,14).



- iii -
The civil works program was largely completed in spite of serious
budgetary constraints and a major Rupiah devaluation in 1983.  To allow the.
achievement of the physical targets the Bank agreed to increase the percentage
of loan disbursement for civil works and to extend by one year the closing
date until December 31, 1987. Equipment for road construction and maintenance
was all procured but local purchase by GOI of trucks and vehicles was
drastically  curtailed.    Serious  shortfalls  in the  staff recruitment and
training programs and the ineffectiveness of the GOI's task force hampered the
institution building process until technical assistance and training
activities were contracted to private consultants (PCR, paras. 14-19).
Project cost underruns of 261 in Rupiahs and 58Z in US dollars
were mainly due to the devaluation of the Rupiah; however, substantial savings
were incurred also in the procurement of equipment, in the curtailed purchase
of vehicles and in the reduction of unit costs of civil works.  Unutilized
funds in the amount of US$15.5 million were cancelled from the loan (PCR,
paras. 15,20).
Project Results
While physical achievements were satisfactory, the quality of road
works  executed  was  considerably  poorer  than  appraisal  expectations.
Deficiencies in design and construction led to rapid deterioration of the
roads constructed under the project and needed major expenditures, financed
out of GOI budget, for rehabilitation and reconstructior. shortly after
completion. Moreover, the road seiection and planning methodology proved more
complicated and less reliable than expected. Although the actual ERR of the
project roads cannot be estimated under these conditions, it will be almost
certainly less than the 252 estimated at appraisal (PCR, paras. 22,23).
Low, almost negligible, utilization of road construction equipment
procured under the project was a result of overestimated needs for force
account works  and for rental to contractors.   Lack of funds,  technical
assistance and training hampered instead the use of road maintenance equipment
and the implementation of a road maintenance program in general.   Limited
success was achieved in institution builiing at kabupaten level, and only
during the second half of the project period, when staff and expertise of TA
consultants  were  substantially  increased.       Likewise,  coordination  and
monitoring activities at central government level worked effectively only with
the support of external assistance (PCR, paras. 21, 24-27).
Sustainability
The inappropriate design and poor execution of road works,
compounded by the lack of an efficient maintenance system, resulted in a life
of the investments much shorter than the ten years estimated at appraisal.
The limited institutional improvements achieved are contingent upon the
maintenance of equipment efficiency and staff capabilities and attitudes (PCR,
paras 25,28).



- iv -
Findin8s and Lessons Learned
Several findings and lessons emerge from the project experience,
and have already been applied in the design of the follow-up Second Rural
Roads Project (Loan 2881-IND), which started in February 1988.  Most of the
deficiencies  encountered  during  implementation  stemmed  from  its  weak
institutional base which was reflected in the lack of an effective project
management.  Roles and responsibilities for project implementation needed to
be better defined and adequate support in terms of f^mds, guidelines and
technical assistance had to be provided at all levels (PCR, paras. 27,30).
The project results raise also two issues related to the
increasing responsibility of local governments in the execution of investment
projects.   First,  the objective of strengthening  local capacity for and
omnmitment to rational planning and execution cannot be achieved through
technical assistance alone, without proper incentives to the civil service and
a growing involvement of the private sector; furthermore, the allocation of
government funds to local programs should include adequate incentives to the
efficieit utilization of resources.  Second, more attention should be given in
future projects to achieving a realistic balance between physical targets,
long-tu.sd institutional development and project quality objectives (PCR,
paras. 31-33).



PROJECTICO_PLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
RURAL ROADS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2083-I1M)
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name             Rural Roads Development
Loan Number              Loan 2083-IND
RVP Unit                 Asia
Country                  Indonesia
Sector                   Transport
Subsector                Highways
Background
1.          Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands covering a
land area of about two million km'. In 1980, when the project was prepared,
it had over 145 million people and was the world's fifth most populous nation.
Over 80 of that population lived in rural areas, and despite an average
growth of per capita incoxe of SZ per annum, Indonesia remained an extremely
poor country, with almost 50X of the populatlon living in conditions of
absulute poverty. Assisted by the increase in oil pr4-ces and the commodity
boom, the economy had been growing at an annual ratd of almost 82 for over a
decade, yet agriculture still accounted for 612 of total employment.  Great
importance was attributed by the Government to agriculture for food
production, as the main source of non-oil export revenues, and for poverty
alle7iation.
2.          In 1980 the road network totalled more than 300,000 km, including
about 200,000 km of village roads.   Roads above the village level were
classified as 'national' (about 12,000 km), "provincial' (about 27,000 km),
and "districts (about 67,000 km), indicating their relative importance as well
as  the  level  of  government  primarily  responsible  for  development  and
maintenance. In particular, the Provincial Departments of Public Works (DPUP)
and the District Departments of Public Works (DPUK) were vested with the
administrative and operational responsibility for provincial and district
(kabupaten) roads respectively. Of the kabupaten roads, which were the focus
of the project, it was estimated that 42? were paved, 142 gravel, and 44?
earth. About 60? of these roads were in poor to bad condition.
3.          In the previous decade  (1969-1979)  the Government 'sd made an
extensive effort, with the assistance of several foreign donors including the
Bank Group (Part III, Table 1), to improve the institutions and the road
networks at the national and provincial levels.   As a result there was an
adequate arterial network of roads for the rural roads to feed into as well as
increasing numbers of competent staff, at the national and provincial levels,
to provide technical assistance to the kabupatens, still affected by acute
shortage of qualified staff.  The substantial allocation for kabupaten roads
of Rp600 billion (US$ 0.96 billion) in the third five-year development plan
(Repelita III, 1979-1983), reflected GOI's new emphasis on rural roads as an
explicit component of its broader rural development strategy (Staff Appraisal



2
Report (SAR), para. 2.03). A rural roads project with a strong emphasis on
local institution building was therefore considered not only a direct support
to GOI's policy objectives, but also a necessary and logical step in Bank
lending strategy to the highway sector.
Project Objectives and Description
4.          The objectives of the project were to: (a) provide better mobility
in selected rural areas through construction, betterment and rehabilitation of
rural access roads; (b) strengthen the capacity of kabupaten staff to plan,
implement, and maintain the kabupaten road network; (c) provide a rural roads
support works and maintenance program and (d) monitor these activtties to
establish improved management techniques and work methods for rural roads and
prepare similar programs in additional provinces and kabupatens. The project
was the Bank's first venture in assisting rural road development in Indonesia,
and was intended to cover 25 of the 259 kabupatens in the country.
5.          The kabupatens to be supported had been selected in provinces
included in the DPUPs improvement programs being implemented under the Fifth
Highway Project.   As Jambi province was not included in this program, an
improvement program for this province was therefore added to the project in
order to provide a satisfactory main network and to enable the DPUP to assist
the DPUKs.
6.          The project was structured as a three year time slice of GOI's
rural roads develop-ient program. It included the following components:
(a)   rural roads development programs in 25 kabupatens selected in the
five provinces of North Sumatra, West Sumatra, Bengkulu. Jambi,
and West Java.  The project also financed all equipment required
for improved support works and maintenance and about 50Z of the
equipment    required    for    construction,    betterment,    and
rehabilitation works;
(b)   a DPUP improvement program for the province of Jambi and the
purchase of equipment required for execution of support works and
road maintenance, including tools and workshop machinery;
(c)   establishment  of  workshops  in  participating  kabupatens  for
preventive maintenance and minor repair of road construction and
maintenance equipment'6
(d)   purchase of miscellaneous equipment to be used by the agencies
involved in the execution of the above programs; and
(e)   consulting services to provide technical support and assistance
for:
(i)   implementation of the road programs in the kabupatens;
(ii) implementation of the improvement program in the Jambi
DPUP;



3
(iii) establishing systems and procedures for monitoring all
road works activ'ties and institutional aspects of the
project as vwll as sampling and evaluating the
development impact of improved roads in selected
kabupatens;
(iv)  preparation of further rural 'oad development programs
in about 100 additional kabupatens; and
(v)   preparation  of  DPUP  improvement  programs  in  the
remaining 18 provinces.
7.          The rural roads program was the largest project component, and
included about 400 km of new road construction, 2,200 km of improvement to
exlsting roads, replacement and repair of some 5,000 X of bridges, and major
support works of a capital natu.re to improve the reliability of a further 2500
km of roads.
Proiect Design and Organization
8.          The project was identified in discussions between GOI and the Bank
in 1973 and prepared by GOI with the assistance of foreign consultants.
Considerable time and effort were spent designing a system for district road
evaluation and programming based on some key planning concepts.  The project
placed particular emphasis on: (i) work programs covering the entire kabupaten
to be prepared/updated annually; (ii) heavy involvement of kabupaten 'Ataff;
and (iii) the need for simplicity in planning procedures.  The new planning
and programming approaches to be adopted under the project were presented as
involving only limited changes compared to existing practices. The SAR states
that "in genera:, the kabupatens are already applying planning procedures
which reflect actual needs relatively well' and "the objective of the proposed
methodology is to introduce as few changes as possible to present practices."
The practices, however, were far from being systematic and resulted not only
in poor selection in respect of roads to be included in the program but also
in respect of type and scope of works. Furthermore, the new procedures were
quite elaborate and .epresented a major departu-e from existing practices. In
addition to being much more complex than presented to be, the simplified
evaluation procedures which formed the core of the approach to be introduced
under the project, were not very efficient as a selection tool.  The project
considered that the standard procedures of traffic surveys and intensive road
condition surveys would be too costly and time consuming and as an alternative
a ranking procedure was developed based on zone of influence criteria namely a
population index (cost/head/km)  and land index (c^0q/hectare/ko).   Sample
feasibility studies based on conventional economic -.alysis were used to
establish cut-off values for the two indices corresponding to an ERR of 122.
9.          Project organization and management and the institutional set-up
were repeatedly flagged as a main issue throughout preparation and appraisal.
Roles and responsibilities of agencies at central (MPW, MHA, BAPPENAS) and
local (DPUP, DPUK) level were perceived as being subject "to subtle and
complex arrangements and to an administrative system with many interlocking



4
and evolving relationships" (SAR, para. 2.11). The project, howevev, did not
go beyond acknowledging the situation and simply endorsed GOI' 8 proposals to
split responsibilities between:   (i) DPUKs for programs execution; (ii) MHA
for finance and administration; and (iii) MPW for technical assistance and
equipment  procurement.    No  credible  attempt  was  made  to  correct  the
inconsistency between MHA's role as responsible agency and its tepid
commitment to the project, defined as a 'management enigma" by a supervision
mission (August 4, 1982).  A Project Secretariat (PROSEC), to be established
within MHA, in charge of project coordination and monitoring, was hastily
proposed by the Bank just before negotiations, with structure and function to
be defined by GOI only during implementation.
10.         Given the pilot nature of the project,  and GOI's intention to
disseminate nationwide the planning methodology, if proven successful, an
intensive monitoring program of project implementation was recommended during
the early preparation stages.   indeed, monitoring requirements (in terms of
road inventory, traffic, population, land use and market surveys) on a
selection of sample roads were briefly spelled out in the SAR, and expected to
be used for further refinement of the planning methodology and for project
evaluation.    A  computerized  system  for monitoring  roadworks  activities,
already existing in the DPUPs, was to be expanded to include the DPUK
programs, and funds were provided under the project for the procurement of the
necessary hardware.    However,  monitoring  scope and activities were  only
vaguely defined, minimally funded, and eventually suffered the same fate as
the other management activities.
11.         The  project  also  overestimated  the  Kabupaten's  capacity  to
overcome their serious technical, managerial and operational shortcomings
within  the  limited timeframe  (three years)  of the project.    Some 2,000
existing kabupaten staff had to be trained, along with about 1,500 additional
recruits, equivalent in practice to the total staff involved in roads at
district  level.    However,  because  of  GOI  reluctance,  total  technical
assistance to the project was limited to about 1,200 man-months, clearly
inadequate to cover the wide range of activities and expertise required. Of
this, direct technical support to the DPUK accounted for 750 man-months,
equivalent to 0.8 man-years per kabupatens during the three-year project
period, and consisted in a blend of foreign consultants (250 m-m) and GOI
senior staff (500 m-m) to be attached to the DPUP office in the project
provinces.   Since no direct line of communication between DPUP and DPUK
existed,  however,  the  GOI  had  agreed  to  establish  it  before  project
commencenent through a joint instruction by MRA and MPW.
12.         More efficient maintenance of the kabupatdn roads was supposed to
be achieved with the provision of equipment and limited TA (see above).
Despite the kabupatens lack of experience in maintenance planning, no specific
provision was made for it in the planning methodology developed for the
project, and the risk of inadequate maintenance was expected to be overcome by
a specific allocation of government funds, which did not materialize until
late 1985, three years after the project had started.
13.         A  study  carried  out  during  preparation  and  appraisal  had
identified the need for road construction equipment to be supplied to the



5
kabupatens, based on a 202 and 802 split between force account and contractors
execution of the roadworks.  At negotiations, however, the Bank accepted to
increase the share of force account execution from 202 to 502 and increased
the equipment provision accordingly, despite serious doubts about the DPUKs
capacity to effectively manage and operate such a large fleet.
Project Implementation
14.         The loan was approved and signed by the Board in January 1982, but
effectiveness was delayed until August 11, 1982, the time taken for the
Government to establish the PROSEC and to second twenty experienced staff to
the DPUPs for technical assistance to the DPUKs.   In reality, an effective
management and monitoring system could not be established under the project.
Staff was appointed to the PROSEC only on a part-time basis, thus hampering
the role of coordination between central level agencies; communicaticn with
the kabupatens was almost nonexistent, making monitoring of project progress
and activities almost an impossible task.  Technical assistance consultants,
on the other hand, were spread too thinly and too isolated to fill the wide
gaps left open in the project organization and were further prevented from
taking any initiative by their limited advisory role.   A major budgetary
crisis, in 1983, consequence of a drop in oil prices, temporarily diverted the
Bank's attention from the management issue towards the salvage of the
construction and rehabilitation program.   A critical stage was reached in
January 1985 when, following the expiration of PROSEC's consultants contract,
project management collapsed.   Faced with the prospect of terminating the
project and cancelling the undisbursed funds of the loan, the Government
reappointed the consultints, reestablished the PROSEC as Project Managt nent
Unit (PMU) with qualifiad full-time staff, and substantially strengthened the
TA in the field by appointing loc.l consultants in place of the seconded
staff, who had proven quite ineffective.
15.         The budgetary crisis of 1983, accompanied by a major devaluation
of the Rupiah from 703 to 970 Rp/lUS$, forced the Government to reduce the
budget allocation for the roads programs of the project to less than 5O of
the amount estimated at appraisal. In order to allow the achievement of the
physical targets of the project the Bank accepted, from March 31, 1984, to
increase the percentage of loan disbursement from 202 to 65t of the cost of
civil works, and later agreed to extensions of the closing date until December
31, 1987. Savings in the procurement of equipment, and lower costs of civil
works in dollars equivalent, caused by the devaluation, resulted in lower
total  project  cost  and  led  to  the  cancellation  of US$15.0  million  of
unutilized loan funds in March 1985 and of a further US$0.5 million upon loan
closure.
16.         Despite these unfavorable circumstances the physicai targets of
the project were largely met. On June 30, 1988 a total of 2,852 km of roads
had been constructed or rehabilitated, exceeding the 2,600 km estimated at
appraisal, but only 1,265 km of an estimated 2,500 km had actually received
support works of capital nature. Bridges were constructed or replaced for a
total length of 4,834 m, against ar. appraisal estimate of 4,500 m, while of
1000 m of bridge rehabilitation 695 m were actually achieved.  In addition,
some 8000 m of pipe culverts, not specifically foreseen at appraisal, were



6
constructed  or  repaired.    Workshops  for  equipment  maintenance were  all
completed, including the 43 additional ones financed out of the project
savings in preparation of a follow-up project. Works were executed mostly by
small local contractors while force account execution, expected to represent
about 502 of the program, barely attained 252 during the last years of the
project, thus confirming the original pre-negotiation assumptions. Quality of
road  construction,  however,  was  well  below  expectation.          Incomplete
accomplishment or shortcomings of other project components, namely equipment
procurement, training and technical assistance, led to poor design and to the
perpetuation of improper construction practices.   This in turn resulted in
inadequate drainage, insufficient compaction and defective pavements which
entailed rapid deterioration of the completed works.
17.         Equipment for road construction and maintenance financed under the
project was all procured by Bina Marga's Equipment Directorate (PALAN)
following ICB procedures and distributed to the DPUP pools and the DPUKs
respectively. However, the equipment remained largely unutilized because of
late delivery, inadequate design, lack of skilled operators and budgetary
constraints. In addition, the large proportion of contract works, compared to
appraisal expectations, made most of the equipment redundant for the reduced
activities being done on force account. Moreover, the demand of equipment for
lease to the contractors was negligible because of their inexperience in
mechanized construction techniques. By contrast, vehicles and motorcycles for
transport of TA and supervision teams, along with dump trucks and other
equipment to be purchased by GOI under reserved procurement, were never
procured, thus compromising seriously the effectiveness of TA and supervision
activities.
18.         Under  the  project  the  GOI  agreed  to  have  an  'appropriate
maintenance program" designed and implemented for the project roads and
bridges and to provide the funds and other resources required for the
purpose'  (Loan Agreement Section 4.03 a).  It is only too regrettable that
nothing of the above occurred under the project.  Even when funds earmarked
for maintenance were made regularly available, starting in 1985, the
kabupatens were totally unprepared to use them effectively, despite the
availability of equipment, simply because the mechanisms to carry out road
maintenance were still not in place.
19.         Successful implementation of the project relied heavily on the
timely and systematic integration of recruitment of additional staff, large-
scale  training,  and  technical  assistance.    The  results,  however,  were
disappointing: only a few of the estimated 1500 additional DPUK staff were
actually recruited; 750 staff, against an expected 3500, received some form of
training, not complemented by on-the-job experience; and the GOI task force of
20 senior staff in charge of technical support to the DPUK proved ineffective
because of staff reluctance to accept an assignment perceived as jeopardizing
their carrier and not accompanied by adequate financial incentives.   Under
strong urging by the Bank to take remedial measures, the Government, prompted
by BAPPENAS, resorted in April 1985 to a massive increase of consultants
services, foreign and local, to take over most of the technical assistance and
training activities.



7
20.         Total project expenditures were Rp 140.9 billion or 742 of the Rp
190.8  billion  estimated  at  appraisal.    In  dollar  terms,  however,  the
difference is more substantial with USS 129.2 million compared to US$305.2
million  (Part III, Table 5.A).   Substantial savings were incurred in the
purchase of equipment procured internationally (US$ 31.4 million) and in the
reduction of equipment pxVcured locally by GOI (USS 15.9 million).  The main
savings (USS 134.8 million), however, were mostly the result of the
devaluation of the Rupiah in 1983 that decreased the cost (in dollar terms) of
civil works from USS 211.2 million, estimated at appraisal, to US$76.4
million. A comparison of the civil works costs in Rupiah, however, shows a
reduction from   Rp 131.8 billion to Rp 80.5 billion, not reflected by an
equivalent shortfall in program execution; this would suggest a reduction of
unit construction costs of roads achieved through lower design and
construction standards. This assumption is confirmed by the poor quality of
road construction constantly noticed during supervisions and verified by the
completion mission (para 22). Consultants cost increased almost fourfold as a
result of the extension in duration and scope of consultants services after
April 1985.
Project Results
21.         In retrospect it appears that the overly confident assessment of
*OI's capability to manage the project, and of its ability to make available
the human, technical and financial resources indispensable to support the
implementation effort, were the immediate cause of the significant differences
observed between appraisal expectations and actual resultf. Certainly a most
useful result of the project consisted in the lessons learned from its
implementation, that could be applied in the design of the follow-up Second
Rural Roads Project (RRII) (Loan 2881-IND), which started in February 1988.
22.         While  physical  achievements  were  satisfactory,  performance  in
terms of quality of road works executed under the project turned out to be
considerably lower than appraisal expectations.   A post-project evaluation,
carried out in 1988 as part of GOI PCR on the same sample of 21 road links
upon which the appraisal economic evaluation was based, confirms that "severe
deterioration of newly constructed or improved roads set in very soon after
completion".  The evaluation further concludes that deterioration was caused
mainly by traffic, that had not changed significantly, though, and climatic
conditions which these kabupaten roads have not been constructed to withstand
adequately" (GOI Draft PCR, Appendix). This means that the roads constructed
under  the  project  needed  major  expenditures  for  rehabilitation  and
reconstruction within one or two years after completion. These were financed
out of the GOI budget, and as such outlays on the project roads cannot be
identified separately from other such expenditures on all other roads in
Indonesia, the actual ERR on the project roads cannot be estimated, but it
will be almost c2rtainly less than the 252 estimated at appraisal, most
probably below an acceptable level for this type of project. These results are
the direct consequence of several factors. In addition to the poor design of
the project roads, the kabupaten construction firms, which were awarded the
large majority of the works, were basically labor contractors, with poor
technical standing and little experience, if any, in the use of equipment.
Most of the equipment provided under the project for lease to the contractors



8
remained unutilized because kabupaten staff could be trained in its operation
and maintenance only after 1985-86 when the field consult.xnts' staff was
substantially increased; moreover, some of the equipment procured iwas
unsuitable for work on kabupaten roads or unusable due to poor design and
manufacture.
23.         These problems were compounded, until 1985, by the shortage of
experienced engineers and vehicles for works supervision and, even more
seriously, by the lack of any mechanism to enforce construction specifications
and to impose satisfactory execution of the works as a condition to payments
to the contractor. Both aspects have been adequately addressed in the Second
Rural Roads project by providing intensive consultants support to the
kabupaten supervision teams and by imposing certification of satisfactory
execution as a condition of eligibility for loan disbursement.
24.         The project showed limited success in achieving the long-term
objective of strengthening the capacity of kabupaten staff to plan, implement
and  maintain  the  kabupaten  road  network.    The  largely  unaccomplished
recruitment and training programs, as well as the limited effectiveness of
GOI's TA staff, directly contributed to this outcome, but other shortcomings
in project design emerged during implementation.   Regarding road evaluation
and planning in particular, it appears in retrospect that;   (i) much more
attention and resources needed to have been given to training of kabupaten
staff in the new procedures; (ii) transition arrangements should have been
foreseen providing for either phasing ir. of the new procedures in stages, or
alternatively  for  outright  introduction  in  their  entirety,  but  with
considerable consultants assistance in the beginning; (iii) appropriate
provisions should have been introduced in the kabupaten's routine budget to
permit the planning activities to be initiated with the required lead time
prior to each fiscal year; and (iv) criteria for budget allocation at central
level, should have included incentives to encourage kabupaten to adopt more
systematic appr sches. Moreover the approach to road evaluation and planning
revealed  important  shortcomings.       First,  the  approach,  contrary  to
expectations, still required considerable data collection to determine the
zones of influence of the road links and estimate pcpulation and cultivated
land.   Second,  statistical analysis of the results of the sample studies
indicated that the relationship between the population and cultivated land
indices and the ERR was rather weak, thereby casting doubt on the predictive
value of the indices. For these reasons, the approach (which had hardly been
implemented for the reasons outlined above) was not continued under the
follow-up project and a traffic based approach was developed instead.
25.         The capacity of kabupaten staff to implement their road programs
was also not strengthened as much as expected, although improvements were made
as the project proceeded.  Only nine out of 25 kabupatens are reported (GOI
Draft PCR, Table 3.1) to now be capable of executing future rural road network
exsansion and betterment schemes to an adequate standard without external
assistance. Most of this capability, however, was attained during the second
half of the project (1985-1988), when staff and expertise of TA consultant
were substantially increased.  Project results also indicate that the impact
of project actions was generally more effective in kabupatens already
relatively developed, and that the sustainability of the level of efficiency



9
achieved is contingent upon the maintenance of equipment efficiency and staff
capabilities and attitudes.
26.         The provision of maintenance equipment and associated workshops
was not sufficient to trigger the spontaneous implementation of road
maintenance programs  in the kabupatens.   No funds,  technical support or
specific training were earmarked under the project to help the kabupatens
overcome their long standing practice of neglecting road maintenance until
major rehabilitation works become necessary to keep the roads passable. These
shortcomings have all been addressed under the RRII project, which is also
developing a policy framework for a nationwide maintenance strategy for
district roads.
27.         Monitoring of project activities and improved management of the
project could not be effectively achieved until April 1985 when the PROSEC was
reestablished as the Project Management Unit (PMU) with full-time staff from
MPW and MHA and enhanced technical assistance in the field and at central
level.  This arrangement worked satisfactorily, despite a dwindling interest
in the project as preparation activities for RRII increased.  It was largely
replicated in the follow-up project with the support of specific legislative
actions intended to clarify and streamline roles and responsibilities of the
main parties concerned in district roads programs.   Experience under both
projects,  however,  would  suggest  that  present  arrangements  for  project
implementation, based on a leading role of MHA assisted on technical matters
by Bina Marga, might not be sustainable in the long-term without heavy
external assistance and coordination.
Proiect Sustainability
28.         The inappropriate design and poor execution standards,  coupled
with the lack of an effective maintenance system to prolong the efficient use
of the assets, resulted in a short life of the investments. Better mobility
in rural areas was achieved only for a short time, but long enough to raise
expectations amongst rural communities for more permanent road infrastructure.
In order to meet these expectations the Government now feels compelled to
incur additional expenditures for the restoration of the project roads.
Conclusions
29.         While the physical targets achieved under the project were close
to expectations, the rate of return of the investments is significantly below
appraisal estimates.  First, because of poor construction standards and lack
of maintenance, the life of the roads was much shorter than the ten years
assumed at appraisal (although there were notable improvements towards the end
of the project).   Second, because of limited success in improving planning
procedures, the road works carried out were not of the highest priority.
30.         Because district roads, unlike provincial roads, are exclusively a
local government responsibility, coordination of the consultants' and Bina
Marga's assistance was heavily dependent upon the Directorate General of
Regional Development of MHA (BANGDA).  BANGDA through its Project Management
Unit did not prove able, nor willing, to exercise this needed leadership role.



10
Indeed the project design did little to clarify responsibilities for project
implementation and to enable a strong and efficient leadership to develop; in
particular, it did not:
(i)   require assignment of staff to the Project Management Unit on a
full-time basis;
(ii)  provide sufficient technical assistance to the Project Management
Unit and to kabupatens staff; and
(iii) provide sufficient funds, guidelines and technical assistance for
the establishment of an effective monitoring system.
31.         The results of the completed project raise many questions for the
design and implementation not only of future road projects but also of urban
and agriculture projects which are increasingly the responsibility of local
governments.   The project's objective of building up the capability of the
district administration was sound, and some inefficiencies in program design
and execution may have to be accepted as the cost in the short run to achieve
this objective in the long run.  In the case of this project, however, the
cost seems excessive compared to the limited success in building up local
capacity, particularly for planning and maintenance.                   1
32.         In this respect there are two fundamental issues which will need
serious consideration in future projects. First, both local capacity for and
commitment to rational planning and execution need strengthening.   It is
tempting to conclude that the solution to the problem of inadequate local
capacity would be to provide more technical assistance. However, there is a
limit to how much technical assistance can be absorbed in an environment of
acute shortage of qualified technical staff at all levels and distorted
incentives.  In the long term, sustained improvement of local capability can
only be achieved by a civil service reform to improve compensation and career
opportunities for local government employees, accompanied by a gradual shift
towards subcontracting to the private sector, consultants and contractors, a
growing share of program implementation activities.    Furthermore, a lasting
commitment to rational planning and execution can only be achieved by
fundamental changes  in the way  local programs  are funded to give local
governments clear incentives both to mobilize their own resources and to plan
the utilization of central government resources more effectively.
33.         Second, in a situation of sudden and major increase of programs
and funds availability, the physical and disbursements targets become a main
preoccupation, to the possible detriment of longer-term objectives such as
improving local capacity, project quality and establishment of O&M functions.
Future programs should give more attention to achieving a better balance
between physical targets, long-term institutional development and project
quality objectives. Close coordination between donors and GOI funded programs
is needed in this regard.



IV
PART II _PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORn=' ESETV
Summary
The First RurAL  ads Project zt.oded the scope of        assstase for
Mousa's road   tuaork.  Previous nR   Projects                   t   O
developing the 8itiomal a5d Pro"vacl rodad sa  this Po Jet wv
i,taaded to ruin  the capabilty Vitus the ecU   t  plat   , aprsove and
maintaIn mruzl read34 SateU  therby tapmroing the sebility and welfare
of rural populations.
The Project a&4ived Its eobjetivea ti so far astaiproveseuta were
*ff.eted.  somever the degree  of Lapremat was lm  than ha  been
ep.cted particulary Is am  aspects.  Tis vas Imivablo I9 vim of
tae ecnomic .t, he oimlez =tur  of the Project and the
UuX       er_  or agecies imved in        eme.tataos. The prorame of
civi w4s ovig±9aZl  proposed  mu Ml      t be emtad wit"i  the toree
Yew pa",4Laa          because    m   t eadtue  bat to be reduced an
a reslt of di  Governet revemes avauable. 'A pwtial7T
c e        iscraee in the prootia  of the Cost of civi vre to be
financed uner the lom  wa effcte  but dud net povost the PI eV
bein  stretched by the yews.  QwaLtt  cotUol of civil warls was
imrwved but iinmined difficult becaus of the mee4 to maaervise a uaris
number of 52o5.1 pogaphially diserse  projecto a    ot wbiha were
carriad out by mU        t laetotors with ±Itad klods and .xpeiasacs
of oder Mthods of oQuatructioU, Cost ettiating an  desiz 3tandards.
The Prjeet provide  te 25 k"upatas  included  f6,r ecyvl woafs witth
road coo ct             t     e    quip t and the necssa7 fcLiti
for equinnt aatance.  Materials testig laoorstoaf*3 ad *QUI=at
wer also provided for these cabagatems, and for an additional 43
Icapatens in prepars ton fora proposed    o3os Projact.
These facilities have provided a *c.. basia 0a whiac  to build for
fUrther esnaceut of    u;atsa  capablit7  in daveloyi          e rUs s.11
nw. - :^*._



Project  OUItO  sa  o@r4 cUou w5  an eS*Ut:aL :o        o     ut @t
Co03l90  ?!.O4eet btu Waa dj:f:tu.: :o *ZaaliSI2 *t?c:i7ely tecaUse
Couaun"cA3US OetWe*O aLl :c. oV0"Lvd parP4tes WerI aot ea:7 :c
$i2tatn. -MevoetceJoe.  apprc;rtata woricable SYutaW  were CeMSe4  ant
have *amble  te Gveout to   ;raet  Con entI7, with suasequent
rura  roads ;ro4ecL  of v-eet.r scoap  and complezit7.
i.ecznacal *os'aassace was ;ro4 ed  at t4ree Level:.  At 'z4 7TduaL
kabupatCe l*VeL consultants *assstid in inpro'vl.g rsoad and bretgr
aoostruection, rep.r and support wors,. C*amltamts a4vla  tao c.urul
Fr4seat coor4±:ating and 4a±ttrtan; 'U±tS to generate and suotata
*veSrl-' rors3 asad tO  'r%3=p4 3Wu4SOeqUjQt ;r03 ets.  Consul tnts were
also employed early in :Z.  ?ro4ec: :o w3doercack  studies of avlar
ksauVatuaa  asd  Provi=*, but their reLts we  a overtan 'y  e',enta
and were les  valuble tan tbe ;Ilani±g Wert carried cut =bzequ*oz:ly.
O  lsctitutloaal arramenta and local needs to .?spand  a  bsort :
*.sz41; ,5s pIrclueSd SIZZI?fIC ^t iaprqVeuent i: the c3pabD:.l±  Co
cabupales tO plan ntWtis aft de40ign, strtures loCaLSLY according to a
soudI?; basi&  strtea.   Soever the fko4act ha SMb..  apprafrut
aetb"g  Am  SCdel±es for  suh    cl mg to be deveLoved.  T ea. can
tov be  " IUsd by the kabupatens, omiaurstoiy vita tning @t  statf
4J: -t   a;toation



13
t. ZNTRCD:TZOI
t.l. GUL
Tho Loan AGraeent (2083-ZM) betwen the Governuent of thE Republic or
Zndonesia and the ZntOrnat±onal 3an1c for Recoustz'sction and Developmt,
dated January 22, 1982 tor tle Ru-ral Ro1ad Development Project, requires
the Borrower to prepar* a r"port on completion of the Project. This
documet ba  been prepared to assist tie Government or  n.doneria in the
tormulation of that report. The purposes of the Report are to deocribe
tte Projoct, particularly Witt reCard to
.  tie ozecutiou and itial operation of the PoJect;
- its cost and the benefits derived and to be dorived from it;
-  the perormn  or the borrower aid the 3ank Witt rp.cet -o their
abligtions under tte Loan Agreemet; and
-  tie accplishment of the urposes of the .Loan.
1.2.  1UCS= 001 f
1.2.1    Transport 36tar
The Project was conctived and ececuted during a period Whlich 3aw prices
for Indonesia's prUar  asporta fall, with  i,nIfiQcaAt implication  for
tlhe Indones"a  cooy. Despite rapid and well-balanced measures to
minimias tbe effect am the ecnm  and to maintai  s3tability and control
of infation. ecoaeof grewth and publia spending  inevitably slowed and
output, incom   and iavestment rcti were reduced. Ilvertheless, betweot
1978 and 1985, Gross Domstic Product averayad an annual growth rate of
4.5 per cent in ral terms which, with population rising at abouat 2.2 ;er
cent annually, implied an increase of 2.3 per cent in per capita GDP.



14
Ls growth momentum was Sustasaaole LarSaly uOcause of =e aechevemen:
af the mturing industrial sector avA the services sctor, both of Which
mintained a±Jh rates of grth; 10.1 per Cent a9 7.9 par coat re3pec-
tively. GrFth In the transport  aUb-S*Ctr COQUOAt Of the services
sector was alao strong. 8.8 per ceat per year, unurising in view of
the risl.n  population, rsing income levels, tranamigrtion projecta and
the stage of development of the economy. The motoriz'd venial. population
increased by nearly 13 por cent per yer during thi  eight yewr period
and is nou eatiated at 9 million. Simiarly rapiA goth in domestic 4h    r
passenger and freight d4m     was rored, 13.7 per cent  ad 15.2 per
cent per year respectivoly. Growth it rail and intar-island shipping
demand was lower however; the Java rail networic ezerionced  ncreaoses of
only 2 per cent per yer ta passenger traffic anc 6 per ceat to reight
traftic. Intar-island  hippin  demand grew at an anUal averae rate of
about 5 ;er cent.
Gavereout devolopment expenditure haa reflected its concern that
increasing transport doeand aust be cteored for And that efficaent
transportation systems are vital to facilitate econoido and soctal
developmet. 4f Me total Goverment development bdget in 1987/88 of Np.
7,757 billion, Rp. 1,268 billion or 16.6 per ct-. Is directly ocaated
to transportation including tourism. This share is higher than the
avrwage over the ast eight years but, nevertheless, the proportion of
total expenditure allocated to the sector bad rarely bee below 12 per
cent in this period. Additional developaent expeaditur-a in other
allocations have included some expenditure on trawportation also; for
example the regional development and transzUgrstion developmeat
programees inludo an elemct of transport inirstructur  development.
The major portion of 4eelopnot expenditure ti the traus"rt and  curium
sector dorivmearo   projoct fnding, 46 per ceat, ad, sinc  1977/80,
from the Ipres Jalas icotaral progras, 30 per cent.



15
Tbo total doveLopment budget allocation for read infrastructure has
risen steadily from under Hp 400 billion ,, the early 1980': to nearly Ap
750 billion 1a 1987/88. until the last two years the .ajor share of the
budget was  r,presentea by internal financing but over 62 Aor cent Is
presently provided by project at4. As a proportion of the .total transport
sector development budget, road tsfrastructuwe haa been allocated on
average about half with a "ower allocation in 1983/4, 32 per ceat when
land transport was allocated an abnormally lars  amount   mainly from
proJect aid, and hbther allocations, 63 per cent, in the last two yearz'.
TLU= 1.1
Ram   N1   IDPIx  sum8 or BUDGEMD ~UztU   03 TRANPORT
Total Transport (Rp bn) load ofrasmtruature
Amount  (Rp ba)    Share of Ttl Transp.C5)
Znetr-  Proj. total Xnter. Proh . Total  lAter- Proj. toctal
nal     aid           nal    aid           cal    aid
1979/80   251   156    447      IS0     'J   242    57    50      54
1980/g 1 t 41    288    700     215    128   343    52    45      49
19C1/82  55   248    753       273    103   376    54    41      S0
1982/83   531   284    816      320     53   373    60    1°    46
1983/84   616   863   1579      305    164   470    50    19      37
1984/85   808   557   145t    4160   220. 680    58    40         50
1985/86   770   561   1271      471L   !14   585    61    23      46
1986/87   418   558    9T7      261    320   5G1    62    57      60
1987/88   414   742   1186      279    466   745    63    63      63
Soures   Bio Pusat Statistik - Financial Statisttas 1963/84'
WJorld Bank - "Indouneuas Adjusting to Lower GUl Prices,
DepartUeat keangan - dat  appearlag in Presidential Budget
Speeche
1.2.2. 3ozd Iinfwstzetw. Developnet
The  astablishment of a comprehensive networZ of all-weathar roads
throughout Indonesia   has been high on. the  ¢overnme#Aa. list of
developmont priorittie over the last twenty year.. As a result, the
national networic bi grown rspidly. Rearettably, the destre. to suatain
the momnetum of new construction durivg periods of financial restmrnt.
haa led to some reductions in deSign 4tadardS 3=d qn1lu4t7 of
li-.tr.-cttz.  'q.4czj .zg-IC.11P wi:4 =4  !24,.:att4n !4C-.i3eza =*    vol=;a



16
Of bh44V7L-tV&=Q, haa--a lerate4 the demand for road maintenance.
Hownver appropriate growth LA read manatedance capacitY has failed to
aeet ths growtb in demand aad  road  conditions in many aroaa art
deteriorating.
Precise masuremut of the size and condition of the total roe   ntwork
of asm  238.,00 Zas  Is not possible in the absence of a r t.w    road
Inventory. Sowever the folloming are indicative orders of magultude for
the lengths of road under Rational, Proavincal and District (Zabupaten
and Zotamsya) responsibility for conxtructioan and  ntahe
fNat..nal                                     12, 100  '
Frovinotal                                   38,000 Ima
Z4atrict                                     17S,000 cma
Others (estate, transmigration etc.)          13,000 5
A comparable satiate of the road netaork 31M in 1970 W*oM"  be 85,000
'-aT u,  in 13 years the road metwiork Usa  inceasd in lent  by 2. 8
tin". Tt a incr%ase tar paved roads haa bee  even zors- rapid. In 1970
only som. 20,000 SO  ot paved road tuated whterea  in 198t the 'enoth
euceds 90,000 Io.
There is considerable regional varat ion in the road ntwork provision.
Java, excluding DKZ Jaarta, is fturnsed wiLth a road networc of some
;3,000  ma within a lan  area of 132,000 sq. km, giving a netw.rl donsity
of 0.4 km per sq.   . This compares with a natIonal average of about 0.1
p3 par sq. :m. ThIs 31and, however 'S the most densely popwlat*d 4nd the
population pea- sad kUalowtre, 1,750, O. . about 2.3 times th  national
average of 770. At the othe  exreme  Iaut Jaya bW  only  .0  li sq km
and 240 persona per I4Imtv  of road.
As stated above the rapid growth to the size ot the total road network
asa atpaoed incraes in capsoity'for their metntmance. It is estimted
that only about baf the U atcoal netwoik, one-tid   t the provincial
networic and one-quarter of tho district network of roads can be
0onsdered' as being in goo  condition. This untsttatatori situation
arises tra   a numbev of ractrs. including;   complete road inventory
data, shortage of fizanCe, oumoersome procedure  ror channelling Iu a   to



17
the executing agenoaes, shortages of experienced  angneertig staff and,
in soi cases, undeNdear,dg and poor construction of roads tn relation to
evolving traffic conditions.  The relative condition of the three
categories of road reflects tue priorities that covement haa
estabLished since the earl7 1960's, when the ;eneral need for investment
in  transportation  infrastructure   Vag  first   recognised. That is,
earlieat ;riority  tor the National networks, followed ty the Provincial
network and latterly the 0i3trict netwoil.
1.2.3.  World Bak Asstance to the 2g#iaY Sector
World 3alc lending for rhhay developuet in Indonesia Ua  iirroed the
above Goverment prlorities. The Firat hgbuay Project (US$ 28 million,
June 1984, Credit 154-ID) helped restore ma  linicage comnnicatIons in
Indonesia after a long period  of  neglect  b7  providin  equipsut and
aterizls for maintaining and rehabilitating sme 3,000 km of Nationl
roads*. Subsequent hi2tniay proects ktendet similar assistance over wider
geograpaica  areas, then into lower strata o -the road  sse   nd Into
other aspects of the roa  tranport sector such an re  lation, coutrol
and management and training. These projects are listed as Agendis 3a. or
particular note Is the Fifth 314bha3 Project which vas designed to easure
that Hational and Provincial roads, into which rural roads feed, are
brought up to reasonably trafficabl- standards. Four out of the five
provinces proposed for Inclusion it  the F'st Mural Roafd  "rjojet were
tncluded ia the 3co00 of t:o Fifth Sighvay Piooct. In order to raise
Provincial road standards In the fifth province, Jambi, a Provincial road
assistance oappent was incorpor ted into this Rural Roads Project.
1.3.  PNSOE  MUZIE1T=C
Indonesia's populatioan was and remins largely (30 per *eot) rural and
concentrated oa the major ±slands of Java, Sumatra, Sulawets  and
Zalimantan. .-vo-thirds of the rural population am toe  per cet of the
urtan populition are depeadent no the agriculture 3ector winich, 4=cepz
>^* n~tit -iztat-=  ,r :.:  4.:              '8,a- -.- V ai04rs;   -3 aaz z'--



18
crops being rubber, tea,  ocont, oil pal, sugar and coffee, and th
main saosistece arops being rime, corn, cassava, soyabea, fruits and
vegetables.  -                                                                          E
Transport between the suallholders and crop markets Is th:ftore a
necessity for developmt. However, the kabupaten (District) road system
ad Lacked sufriotent investmnt aad maintenance to avoid deterioration.
tMost of the networc was constructed over 40 ye  ago and,, va  d"igned
ol.- .or low vehicle Loads and trfic volume. Governt priortti.S,
3ince the recognition of tb* geoeral need for lnvostuent in
transportation Wrt:tructUre in tat 1 iae 1960s, coceontrated on
National and Provincial road networks. Available ficance and trained
= oWr were insuffiienot to exteOd thrO   to assistance a:  aupat*e
level which reslted In ouatinain  ootertorstion of rurl roads. With the
atIonal and Prov iaUl roa  networks takin  shape,  the next logical
stage was to promote and encourae attention to the rural road linkages
bwee  th  area"  of production and their 3Arket3.
Responsibility for develoimt an  mintenanse of the rural red system
ies with tWlh d                 tratio e     of which bd an established
public rads agency, Dins Pekeiaa  Mm  1abupaten (DP . g ationallY
the DPUKs were responsible for maintaining some 67,000 km of road.
Clearly the executing capacit  at the ofPs )ad becom  inadequate and
they were oanifestij incapble either of a.nin  the 43isting systeM
or of eztending the systems withot assistance in the form of traning in
planning, organisation and manageaent, construction and maintenance
techniques for road  and strutares, equiment provisio  and apervison.
The maJor souw  of funs for the kabupatee roa  ar  Znrs Kabupaten,
Inpres Jalan an  lpeda. Inrs Zabupaten au Znvpres Jan ar  grants
disbured by central Covreuent.  Zapres Kaupaten SrUnts ceo oed tn
1970 and are disbursed in proportion to population for the developmet of
economic infastructure and to provie emloymut. ApprozxatelY 70 per
cent of this grant is usad for road and bridge construction and
uaintanance. Znpres Jalan prwta were established in 19t9 to supplemet
spending on roads and bridges in kabupatens which are acre sparsely
;opulated and t!ua whiere rurLl  mad ocactruciton Costs pfr  4pita of



19
population are higer, IPeda revonues are property taxes collected by the
kabupateni and represent a very 3mall, 10 per cent, proportion of
cabupaten revenue, Of the  .pda revenues collected only 20 per cnt is
allocated to road iLfreatructurs.
Budgetary provisions for Inpres Kabupaton and napres Jalan had beea
inrewasn  rapiAly prior to 1982.  fowever disburseaen.,, particltarly of
the tares Jalan budget, bad bu  slow. An of April 1981 80 per ent of
1979  npres Kabupaten budget and only 24 per coat of 1979 Zopres JaLa
budget had been disoursed. This slow rate of disuraezent was atirbutac
to the execution time of som  projects and processing problem  asociated
with the newly creted Zopres Jtlan budeot. Sinificant iprovemnts in
the current adiministrative proaesses wer* expected following
couCputartlion of DGOSs project preparation and reportig system. Z>
restropect this hop* soa be soon to have been forlorn and aore
3sigificat obstaclsS to 4disursmet Were the convoluted buresucrltic
sYstem. through Wbhil. approwls and fuinds had to be channelled.
Nevertheleas the Inpres Jalan srces  of  nds was determdnd by 003 and
by external findIng ageies as the apporiate veil  for intenational
funding of rwurl rod devlopmets.  Co          tly   terul assistance was
sought by 0OZ frm World Sank, ADS and OW   to supplemnt the existing
funding of kabupate  roas and enanc .tha effectiveness of speading.
1.4.  PNW=  PhBA7
T1e project was prepared in discusions between the ministry of Public
Worics (Mil), the Ministry of Home Arfairs (M),I BAPPVIAS (3ational
Planning Ageny) and the Bank -ton 1978 ant foUoed by an identitication
mision ix January 41979. Detailed project prepaatioU was csrrtd out by
G00  thrCo   a Ste    Coittee, conposed of staf  from  MU, WQv, S1OC,
IIOF and BAPPENU.  Assistane  itL proJect prepaatioun was provtded by
consultants from New Zealand and Zndocesia financed ucder a Tachical
Ass±:tance Credit (898-IN). The Project was appraise  by ta 3wa   In
198l and the Loan Aoreeat was signed it Januar  1982 for *ffective
comencumeant oan 29 ju=,  e132.  4-.Is      W5z Rubz7cuSGtcT imooded  3 17
,%U,j'~~~~~_- -1s  4-d.:'.z



20
1.5. PCSJli
The ai4 of tC  ProJect were
a)  to provide better ibilty in rural areas;
b)  to 3trengthen the 2apacity of kabupaton staff to pln, Lzpl*xant and
maintain the Icabupatn read networi;
c)  to provide a rural road support wvorcs and maintenance programs; and
d)  to mouitor the above activities to  provide iaproved woricablo
wanagmut tecnques and work  ethods for rurl roads and prpare
similar programes in additional provinces and kabupatans.
1.6.  PM07  300M3
The original scope of the Project oc.pried, over a thee yer period:
a)  ural roads construction, betterment, rehabilitation, suport workx
and maintenance In 25  cabupateas of North Sumstra,. West Sumtra,
3cngkul., Jai and Ywet Java; the Poject supplyin  all equimenat
necessar  for Improved suport worcs and r        oa matenance    about
50 per cet of' the reed constrotion eqipmt requaied for new road
oustruntiont bettermant and rehabilitatiou worits
b)  a DPW  S4roement program. for Jamb  Province aid the purohav  of
equtpaent required for execution or support works and -ad
aintenancet , including roads ad worksop  7s
c)  establishmt of workshops In the selected kabupaten for prwveutative
maintennuc    d minor repairs of ree  ooutruotio  and maintenaneo
equipment;
d)  purchs-o of  alsoellaneous equipment to be used by the agencies
.avolved in the Project teztion;
e)  consulting service  to nrovde tec%aioal assistance and support fori
(1)         to      of the road provaa,
(iU)  iptinmntatiou  oa  the programm in Jeamb,
*  (III)  establishing sytms and pcedurs for u.uitArin  all  o4                        I
works activities and InstItutional at tA  Projet as
well as sampling ad evaluating the developen t impact of
improved roa  condl tiocs in thE selecte   cbupatcU5
-      .      S.
(iv)  preparation of further rral ra   dveloamt  proLr            
100 additional kaupat:n,
(v)  prmwation ot DPUP progra_s LA 13 ;rovice*s.



The only revisiou to the abovo sCOpe by the time the project co   nced
was to reduce the number or kcabupatens to 43 tor the preparation of
future dovelopmnt prop.es.
Total naw construction iitendid undir the Project totalled  some 400 km
of road and 4500 a of bridges. Botterment was amted to be acieved
over 2000 iW of reads and 1000 a of bridgos with support works of a
capital nature iproving the reliability of a furtbw 2500 k   of road.
Zopleaentat:ou of the Project was intended to be carried out during the
thre  yea" aid 1982 to 314 1985 and project comploa was =zpeoted to
be achieve by 30 June 1986.



22
2.1.  :U*
The programe of road.and bidge costruction and bettermet a  'upport
works forMiag the focus of the ProJect coUld not be completed withi  tho
three years origina.ly 3abeduled. Reductions in the programs had to be
made rrom the stwt because of budgetary constrals taat were caued by
the prevailig difficult eoomic situation. Also some major components
of the ProJect wer  eecuted at costs loWer than those  estimted Which
further reduced the rate of loan 4±abur3eaenz. As a reault %he
disbursemnt closing date was put back to 30 June 1988, two years later
than originally scheduled, requiring that civil works wold be  c*opletad
by the end of Maroh 1988 La o: der for the final wttbdrwal application
to be processed.  Sodifications were also mde to the reimbursement rate.
for civil works, to the workshop and eiUpmet provisioning an  to the
techical assitance comonent.
.2.  PaE   O L U       
The scope an  complexity of the .Pojct was recognised at its conception
stage. In aider to control the progres of the Project and coordinate
the various activities incorporated, the Directorate Ganeral of Rural
Development (DG0D) withi  the Ministry af Rom  Affairs (ifA) established,
oan an  aual  basi, a Project Secretartata prior to firal approval of
la&,A effectivenea. Responsibility for the conduct and control of the
Project Sorttariate was vested in a board of directors including
representative  of  Et, 4Listry ot fPuic Works (?), ABPEUAS and
Ministry of PluMe (W).
Staffing of the Project 3eoretariat. was providod by the 2inistrias
represented on the boand and was comosed of temporarily seonded staft,
serving as a type of  flag or letterhead only.  To assist with the
Project Secretartate  establistUent,  ezpatrliat*. consultants  wer
augointed, initially on temporary short term basis, prior to the



23
.
appointuet of a tean of consultants to provide technical assiatance. .Th'
period oa tehnical assistance provided covered the period July 1983 to
December 19P4. Project  onitoring. coordintion and plaing was carried
ou0. satisfacterily between the ct  of the loan              " .4.fttiveno"
poriod Auntil December 1984.
The lack of permaeney  of the Project Secretariate an  tho division of
duties of its staff betw"e  the Projet Seretariate and the  ini-stries
trm  which statf were seconded oeant that only the adviory consultants
could devote their  ftll enerl=s to aschsvUlz the Proaject objqcttves.
Tis situation pre-eupted satisfactory achivemnt of the full trasrer
ot tecnnology between the  ¢oultants and the ministry staff.
Thu, although appropriate monitoring, procedure  and planning system
h   been ostabl4shed en termination of the technical  assistance period,
insurmountable problems prevented coatinuation of the Project
Secrtariat. in its current form.
Therefore  iU tl   Project Mangemnt Unit (PM) was establishd with
a stooring  -ette  acting as a bridgg             t  unit initially and
as a boa  oa  cotrol subsequeatl7&   Thet. steerin  comttee coaprised
representatives of EA9, MPV, DAPPUA  and HO.  The Project Mtanageet
Unit was statfed by 13 appropriately-.perienced officials who were
relieved Ot dutieb te- ther scure. minisUtres.
The orignal aonsulUta wewo re-engaged to coupAe  the trainin  and
tranfer at t.chml.a'.  Noitoria  at cotrol of the Projost has ben
carried au* satisfeetorUp unYe  the Project Managemnt Unit.
The terms of refenhe *f the Project Managemt Unt exaedo4. thou Of
the Projet Secretariato with - reset to the PLannin, of fUture rural
roads programms and aid ftuded projecta   With thw.eZt5nded prod at
the Firt Rural Roads' ProJect, vith  changes in the allocation Of
'cabupaten betwen- the three external fundint  agens.,tar follow-on
projcets and because of the progress ia non-aid related cabupaten rad
developments, uuch of the plainc   worc directly carrie dCat. ur.ar t"
1^^O!c "ant . .     o,tO-c                    ¢J;ar i@ _z-.t 44' ";:z 't



24
for preparing tollcaon projects and, with the help of the conultants,
was appointed to this task.
Thus tie Project Ifanagosent Unit in addition to making the onm-wing
ouitoring and loan withdral proonurem   into a reliable 34Ufctiou,
forulated the project prepartion matarlal for the second I=  Rural
Roads Project.  Howover whereas  it was, and rmins, the intention that
such planing ahould be carried out primarily at kabupaten level,
capability al epeaeown  pi anninn  mtids In tis   wer  tir  of
administration remis Indequte to the task and would not remit in
project preparst' Jn of the qualit7 requirtd for international al4
fundiLng.
2.3.  CS VO   PUmm
2.3.1.* Keatm DOE" aft kride.
The civtl wora  propr.  identifled tr_  moutia under the project
corised the Zaree Jala  P_W.           fi.uw   or_54a-Sn3  .ps. Pbs
support wetrs on vrovinew  rods AnJami PrOv W'
The rurwl road progr e for the 25 kaheupatmm mm taetted Originally
to construct 4a0 A,impoe 2,000 Ms and provide m0mpo                  4
*   of road du_,wthe proJects being selected from  the
construction              ein the plni   e                      report of
1982 whioh Identified 60 km fog aewm- eoatruetion,. 3,000 kcm of
betterment and 2000  m fo0  sport works. Th  targets for- 1- --  --
comprised 4uG, 000 -3 Yt rne               - end. 4,00. .     m 4OL
which copared with th  eonintantsn' progru  of 7430 a for mo  brides.
and 1,320 a for    roveSim.                              m a   7 .     _
rod construction plulW abut -I tt, a2*PWu  uppdIa                     -'Wd
4,4      or     r s ar                 wo     and     O
support mos6mk- toe bri4gms  The pr  act alao f,un.  w  oil- Or su rt wors
for about Io;o   a of oulverts.  Summaries -t. thiese achieeents by
'sbu;atn  =s iriosentad In Tab13 2.1 for road:  brlA4u  a.d cuJ7erts



5*5*                          t~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                       ***                                               I          .~~~~~~~~~~~~" I
5                                     3~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                     I                                     a,             p     w#5;it-
59l'  9         I      9      9il  I         I     I         9n'   of   9t off         9         9     3g 911   it       9s Il                9       3n fi     I"t
39      I      I      9      P       I            I Ill    I       9       9       1     9      I      list    I       I       A.    a        Is     I     I           uj.ftw.,I
its'  I        I      .I     9ll  I         I     of        S      9      of    9        I      I      I 111    I      0       9      lo      9      si    I              9"Of I
log    I        9      9       M     I       0      333      9      9      0   1     5    9      9      Ill      I      I       I      If      I      i        1   ..tt,et$19."sI
'   I      9       s      M      I      I      loll    *           o     fs   I~     I       .     lol       41     to     I       s      10      IS    ,     l* 
I                                    ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~I                           I .                                                        .......
*    -  -                            ~           ~         ~~~~~                                                                                         ~         ~~illI i    I a 11      I    I        e" M-I  "I3   "It
in                                                                          I~~~~1119 1 9 15'      561    5 1 II   Si    I    I  0  S        Iff'   9i      ut      iii    IS     i  o f i    I           ..   111)1I
Ii.~~~~~   9  1  9  9!3lt                              I      I9  *s                I      lol  I  III  0  1 I  1      33      3   98    of    I           *git@i,3
IIua'19    9    9        f           i   III   I            11   Is5'9    1)159I   I 11ll3H  110                        05190a   oil  lit  ISee  iil
58      9      I      I       35     9      I     II  I            I 9f 9                I      I      I9   1 1  9 1  of           III  US    o      Is    I    i"'i1*11"'T"     I
I55 9f          9 of5 I I9     6353    If,   II                             33     in                    on      * I Io If InI
I                                             3~~~I               I I o                    #                                                             5 *81  "
I                   ~~~~~0 9   I          I    t              I       of     I      I      I      II       I       I                     9      I      3          gwisten"4     I
o                                      *~~~~I      I fil301                  II     I      I                                                           I                    Sil 
sew'te    9~~ S    51 9    it  VIIt  II  of   5I  I                                 I    I I KI   I  I U                    I   33   WI   111    ItqwttpM3 II
I3 I9S II i                           *      3      5 1  91   I     of     SO             I       9I    IIA      I       I             I       I3    3 SI    I    lo"619*I
lIlt    9  9    ~      ~ 5 itti 11"I   I       $018  oi       19         of  05     3)      9     loll. it             It          I    of       Il    I              111011 
911          9                 Ii           3               P;i    3I             U      Ill    of    I t3o3    I9    3I       is     t  i s OH      I5              st.,3ai    g,t
IfII                  9       33     3      U       I           111155                   9   a         list    I3       N      1       II of1        3      I    "'S"I"llw
Ill                                        Iof  to   I    "   of   I                                          l~~~~~~~~~~~~Itif
o                                           I                                                                                                        I~~~~U  fl    i  f        5 1l   olt  
893  9  93    s      9~~~~   I            I ii     I3      II     5      Ill    I       I     lol       I      to      I I  11               0     I              1n13151eg 
Po9    Vas  9is  Si"   9N  MISS    1111#1                Plo  91  MI        W114  Mos       W          Slit igo   9" Ilil  Ilil  Slo              9tol  t            .    utrI
5                                            5                                                    I                                                   5        lw.pumo  tommi  Ii*U Il 
111159  95    55~'t K  W  35395  III if   ~S'5   55    559    Ill        511    33    II      63        11SIt    3    "to    3lle  of""      4 if



26
respectively. Detals by idiVidual project are presented in Appeudix D.
The aversge size of Individual contracts was senerally 1Sll but varied
greatly. Th* smallest were of about Rp. 1 million, for individual
oulverts, to a  aumm of about Rp. 7-00 millon for ae  road or bridge
construction. All but a few contracts wore sultable roa  cont"taws bsed
in the kabupatens and for mozt Wabupatens there was an abundance of
apparently capable local firms which were pro-qualifled already with the
DPUXs. work was able to bo contracted out gene.raly a little below the
estimate on wbhic  the Inprs Jalsa  budget was foroLated. Compeiti±ve
bidding was eiployed to select contractors but competing bids frequently
differed by littLe more than on* o., two por cent. Quantities wers
spectried by DPX5a in contracta but, in the earlier Part of the project
period at least, both they and the contrsators lacked the necessary tim
and facilities for adequate survey and design work. D0i. -Arains
from shortaes of -nertenoed engtiers, v ebci  aod equA.mn&.ww.eta
OPUK works supervtrs  verify-n-g either that the quantu4. .4a 3sct.d
bY contraGt we" derloyed or that -reasoable standard- at..
_mmintalned.*
As the proje'at 'progressed, with the help and advice of the field
consultants and iaprovements In supervision and DPWC fallitties, there
was a nottceable iprove ont i  Cn 6e eneret standar of contraet work.
owewver the itended doi4p. .Utfe4t 4ee-9wv tif 4be. rwrA 'ie"o tout
undor the project. Na cortailXy not mb-avndi-              M4-4       at7 of taw
early work?tad bd not bee  unaivrsally abhieved   b5 it    5  abpeten aSp
the termination -of 'be prc0sca. Iauffoiant rezourcIng and training of
DPUK staff proventing adequate maintenance of completed works has
compounded the effect of sftrtcomI4p io capital work. and        _M   4
is the  -982      d 13/u                                        tion 
project GoOdItee
Although this situation msat be considered to be disappolnting, it is
nevertheless understandable. The local construction tldustry was composed
of a large nuzabur of mainly small firz'n   with a wide rangs of
capabillt!*±   asd ei,erences. Ver  tiw owned or kad szpw unc  of '25mg
road construction equipmat appropriate to th  road dsLme proposed but
rither were soaaeoed 'a labour intanzive methods of construct;.oa and



:1
traittonl road desias. Without daily supervision and instruction, re-
volutiouary change could not be epected anA evolutionary dvloapmet
over on extended period ofrored the beat chanc- of sutccss. A few
companies were highly rea;onsive to the advice givena y the field
consuiltants and appreciated the potential benefItS of the eutimet and
laboratory facilities becoming available during the course of the
Project. However to bave concentrated   vil waorcs designation to these
few firms would have overstretched their capacity, reduced
coapetitivenessa withs the izdustry and would not have conformed with the
selection procdures.
More direct action to improve the quality of civil works was possible
with the fores account Works. Howeer these amounted to only abot 3 per
enut of workcs carried out in 1982/83, rising to about 25 por cent by
1985/86.
Latterly, geneal improvemet I supervision capacity and approciation of
requireaout* in the design, cost estimating and construction stages
enabled more stringent control on standards to be enfOrced. Verification
by the field cosultants that work proposed for funding assistance from
the Banic loan had beon completed tn accordance with national
specifications was introduced as a prerequisite to submisS3off of
withdrawal applications.
As a result of the cutbackc in total funding of kcabupaten road
improvemeta, ftulldibusement of the loan as originally drm  up, 20
. .
per cent of  at  baed on fixed unit rate., would  have required an
inordinatelolng period. In 1984 *greement was reached to reimburse at
65 per cent with- respect to expenditures evidenced by Withdrawal
applications recived after 31  arch 1984. An am,nt, initially 7 per
cent but later adJusted to 20 per cent, for supervision, adndLnistration
and design costs was also admitted as rimbursabl*. This change enabled
an expanded prograre to be implaented without additionl Goverent
cost. The change was applied to the 1983/84 Jrpres Jalan program with
regard to impleientaticn and to subsequent laprs ,*3 Jalan:l psq
'vtth rtE-Ir  tO  o;:4 QiA1; ia    -



28
2.3.2. J±t DPll Xppmmt  r   Prr_
Znadequate local contraotiag   capability,  ahortages of contract
supervisors and nis -CIofrinatton prevented the execution of this
prograe an fr-.t982/83 as planned. Thu the thre yers proe                ws
resheduled for the period 1983/S4-1985/86, to the extent possible with
available resources.   Zn the event, delays in execution necessitated
further  sceding of the progwaie into later years, thus reducing the
lID assisted coponQ"t.
At the tim  of proJect apprsiaal it was  eztizatsd that  the thre  year
DPUP Jambt support works programn would muaet to Rp 6,200 billlor
However, the late ooinecemnt and slow rats of exaution cased this
estimate  to be balved altho   65 per cent at the  outs were retaursed
from the Back Loan for all eligible works because withdraval applpcatios
were submtted atter April 1 94. Details oat ts worUa funded under the
Loan are preasente tn Appendim S.
3.3.3.  Cat Vceo bs,e
To further snimise delays in                the cotrui of a oroa
in 43 kabupatens proposed tor inclusion In a posible subsequent ThUD
assisted rural roads project was introduced into this project. The
experience gained from the comissioning of th3 workishops in the 25
kaupatens contributed  retly to bettar desig  and construetion of these
additional wor!shops,.,.3q,uipent tor tho 43 workshops was also
incorporated uner thi  raw ;s per the list presented as tibl P6.



29
2.14. EQUPMHENT PROCUEHENT
2.4.1. Roadworlcs Equipmnat
The '.Jorld Bank list of required additional road constructIon and
maintenance equipment was used as the basis for procurement under the
Loan Agreement. This list was based on the recommendations of the
appraisal consultants and idertified separately items for construction
anA for maintenance and for procurement froam foreign and from Local
sources. The Project loan was available for 100 per cent financirn  of
imported equipment and ex-factory price of locally manufactured items.
Procurement of imported equipment was initiated promptly and in
accordance with ZBED international competitive bidding rules. Accordingly
230 items of maintenance equipment and 570 items of construction
equipment were imported. The reduction in the Inpres Jalan budget and
consequent reduction in the scale of the rural roads programme in the 25
kabupaten did not affect the scale of the procurement of imported items.
Table Fl refers.
The procurement of locally available items was, however, limited to 61
items for maintenance and 273 items for construction, compared with the
'orld Bank listing of 290 items and 723 item respectively. The items not
procured included 259 dump trucks, water and fuel tanks and over 200
vehicles for light transport and personnel transport. The omission  of
personnel transport vehicles contributed to the inability of kabupaten
stafr to supervise works progress and monitor road conditions adequately.
Imported equipment could not be utilised to its full potential for the
Rural Roads T ProJect. Delay and difficulty in early utilisation resulted
fromu
- improper inspection prior to issuance of an acceptance certificate,
-  in3u:ficiently long guarantee  periods to cover the procureMent
period; and
_ _; _s  _ .- __, _ . ;* ._ S
-  .3  .M... v','4,.?' .. ^*^- .-^.3,



30
Much of the above resulted from the long period between tender evaluation
and delivery to the final user. For this Project the usual period of
delivery was extended by about 3 months because of the additional time
required for distribution from Bina Harga regional depots to the
provincial and kabupaten workshops. For many items   suppliers regarded
the provision of their services, with regard to unpacking, testing and
deMonstrating operating procedures, on delivery to Biua Harga as
sufficient to fulfil their obligations. Rarely were DPUK staff available
at this time and therefore the full be"*Mits of these services were not
realised. Furthermore, some equipment was damaSed during delivery from
Bina Marga to the DPUP and DPUK workshopw.
Experience in using some of the equipment for the rural road works
revealed some deficiencies in the design of equipment, particularly the
larger items. Extensive reviews of the specifications of the equipment
delivered were carried out by the technical assistance consultants and
Bina Marga's Equipment Directorate (PALAN), who prepare technical
specifications and are, as a result, better informed for future
procurements. No significant changes are required in terms of procurement
documentation but the rights of the purchasers regarding after sales
service, spare parts and operating and servicing documentation should
have been more stringent.
Following commissioning, which was for the most part carried out in
Jakarta, equipment was transferred to the DPUK and DPUP workshops via
Bina Marga's provincial depots. Except for the mobile asphalt plants,
asphalt finishers and a few other items in Bengkulu, which were retained
at the Bima Marga depots  because of Bina Marga's greater ability to
maintain and utilise these iteMs, most other maintenance items reached
kabupaten depots and construction items reached DPUP pools during 1983.
Deployment of maintenance equipm .4 bj kabupaten was in accordance with
the appraisal consultants' recommendations; that is according to the
distribution of new gravel and asphalt roads contained within the
originally prepared 1982/83 programme. The proposed allocation o:



31
West Java, where sae at the OPUP workshp in Sanduag prevented centra-
lIsatIoU and equipmat was ditributed mong the khupaten workahops.
The systm  of pooling cbupaten rao   construction equiput  presented
problems for the provtncial equipment Coordinators specia1,y appointed
for the   naement and organisation of the pools. Host of the appointes
were in situ members  of the UPUP staft, usually tho OPUP works3hp
mnagers, and they  ad problem  find2.ng sufficient tin  to devote to
thuse  additonal duties on behalf of the DPM3. Pr, somtime  non-
istent, Comnication tacillitts between the OPUK workshops and the
DPUP workshop prevented fflitenot utilisatlon of equtpaent. Also
trasport both for persacnel and equlpmQt, particularly for returning
item  to the OPUP workshop, was frustated by budgetay eoanstraints. Mums
problem  were oiot solved in West Java, where the DPU  workshops hosted
the equipment, because   similar complicati.ons pr*venteQ adequate
maintenane and overtaul of euipmet,.
Precise rwet of the level of utilisation achieved for th  equiont is
not possible beause, although procedures for recoding  Wtiistiou have
been prescribed by 3Bta Ham, very few of the OPUs haveD bee  able to
carr"  them out.  Suah information as has been gleaned from varioua
investigations during projeat imple'entatiou  ndieates variaUos,
depending oa tn   t     and location of equennt, of betwee  zero and 80
per cent utilization. Dump trucks and rollers are considered to  ave  ee
the most highly utilised. Those item flor which low utilisatiou have
been posstble awe ohareoterised by poor or inappropriate design or
workmanshR.. tindequate or untimly trining for opeativet,  ndeqate
procedures tw 4er ploymt and adainitretive support. SThe hghe  than
expected volum  of contract work  .d low utiliitioa of eqpmet by.
contractors has further contributed to ow equipment ulilisation.
Equipmet intensive methods of roed conauotio            *  it-         have
generally been difficult to introduce, particUlarly with cotract  oks.
Even oe. the mdel job sites, where more intensive consltancy advice Ua
been coacentrated, the shortage of skilled and trained equpment
operatoro has prevented the acciavemnt of St A"Ut 4 4*3t



32
2.4.2  VWorkhp    h up..t
The ortginal seop* of th  lo a 4 nluded procurement of woricahop
equipmet for the 25 cabupataus. Following the decision to include the
construction of wer!ahops to an additoual 43 kalupate., equtmt  was
procured for thoas  al3o.  As with the roadfwrlcs equipment actual
procuremnt prIes obtained were much lower tha  had bee  ezeted at
appraiws  ag th* total cost of provislomnig for all the koabuatens, g3 '
3.46 mllion, vas lower tha  allowed for is the Loan amnt.  The item
to be prowure  were detruined ta dotail during the itpleatation of the
Project ad a standard list drum up. -*i3 list  s presented mre as
Tablo F5.
1' 4.3. Laboratmv DWalsat
Under the ProJect a smll laboratory was established ad equipped in ech
of the  25 kabupates. In al  cas   thes  laboraries wr* accomodated
within the workuom baUding  The incluson to the Projet of workshop
facilities tn  3 additional Icpaten  ia the Project embracd also 43
laborator facilities. Zn view of the ezperience in the initial 25
kabupaten  am  their soeaate function these  adtional  laboratories
were not boass  witUin  but adjaet tog the am workshops
Laboratory equipMent was procurd following advice from the field
consultanta and provides for a reasonbly uell equipped local faoillt7
but does not permit inrebmnuive 30oi tasting which MUSt be CarriOd out
at provinciL labratori". Installation of equipmat In the '25
kabupateu  waa.wried aiot by each kabupaten Individu ally an  La some
remains to be-euolete4. hSeSe delays have caused some daaage and
deterioratios of equipnt agd densw%lisation of appointed technicians.
Purthermore th   tastAUtU  and nterul layouts of the laboratories is
not consitent and oatn unsyste.atic..
The facilities are nevertheless an important asset to the DPUS tn 
insuring that contractors cieOuto roao'worIcs to Specified standards.



33
Their fUll potential in this regard Will be attained as technicans gain
etperience, suprviors gain more confidence and authority and the DP=s
generlly become able aod wi* lng to demad hiher standards.
2.5.  LCMA
2.5.1 1. TScbncal Sgpprt to 25 DMa ad to DPW Jami
The Proct Included technical assitae  to the 25 DPMs and to DPi?
Jambi to provided support in planning, design, construction and
monitoring of construction and maintenance road works. The total
programe for ths aspect of technica  asistance was divided into Wo
contracts, one serving the seven kabupatens of West Java and the secod
covering tho 18 cabupatens in Sutra and alo Jambi DPV?. The ezeutgU
agency for these oonsultancies was Sina targa. The role of the
consultants vs eparticularly valuable in proiin a conduit on teccal
aspects betwee  the Imle     Ing agenies at loca  levl, the DMa, afi
the technical policy  ecisian  eeors at natioal level, ains YLEa.
The reduction in the pace of eexutio   of the civil worls pu ogram  was
not accompanied by a   tempral dilution Oa  this tonial. assistance.
Nevertheless as the loan period was extended so also was the period of
techaical assiztance. Furthersore the limited early imnact of the
technical asaistance o9  isproeOmts LA the quality of civil works
eeution revaled a neceasity for sealin  up the resources required.
Thi was achieved by supplementing the, aeptriate consiltancy team  with
local conaltamu assistance.
Progress in devlopin  the capacity and capaility ot the DM3 and Jambi
DPI? varied widely. This Is unsurprising in vie oat the diversity of
individuals within the DEPs, variations in the quality ot coznlcations
with aid within the kabupatan  and the rsngs of attituds Of aindiVidual
wortz oantractorz. : thj 'Jrvst situation the advice and assistance
anX:,td rA    ~to t3c "d    Waoll1  -=   . 4' 4



34
redress from the Dp= supervisors or their principals becaus of the
separation of authorities. At best, the help and advics of the
consultaats was actively sought by OPUK supervisors, passed on to
receptive contraators and efforts made to imlemt withi  the lits of
resources and budgets.
on the basis of their accumulated experience and knovledge of local
Implementation conditions, valuable advice as available from  the field
consultants to Sim 3larga and Prosec, later the Projet Vanament, tliit,
on general technical policy matters. These included the design and
technical specificatio=s for construction and aintenance equipment for
icabupatan roadz, training of operators, workshops design, ecuippUM and
stafInAg, road wors design, construction and maintenance methods and
coats an Implementation aonItoring.
2.5.e a                          Proe Mlit
Contract negeaotio   were carried out betwee  GOS  and tae selected,
Danish and asocite loal, consultant in Februa  1963. The  ontat t was
approved by th  Statt Seretariat. In August 1983, but 414 0Ot rceive
all counter signatures and approals to beco.. fany effective   for a
further six moths. In the meantime, in July 1"3, the- eapatrite tam
was mobilised and by October 1983 all the total expatrate ad. local tm
was In situ..*-
The effectiveness of the somltants In pridin  advIorY- sevvia  was
constrained isItiallr because of the lack of in house computing
facilities and tre temporar  natur  of' their offic. aceenoation.
Therefdre .the como2ts* original contract period of MiM :Mths was
found to be inouffcent and applications were made, firstly to eutan
the contract perid by two months, and seondlr to Introduce a. subseent..-
consultancy input to the Pro4ect Secretariats.
By the tizs or completion of the original contr2ct-; Augusa 198s;
continued assiatancj a4  tcaxn ;ro'?±d  o te      Directorate General of
: 4ilz-"  *::3711=2t }-C)*J ttiU- :'--i  anij  Ca4 aat3       ;  :X



35
eiht other_direotorates or deparents o. the Ministry of Publia Workas,
Yinistry of Fiance and Sappena  and to 'tWrlc 3anc Appraisal Missions.
Regettably, the transfer of technoIoy an  training proce.*'es necwesry
to hand over the duties of tUe Project Secretartate to stat? of DODD was
not comploted. MM  had found th  selves with tusu'nntable constraints
to the allocation of tat? in sufftiient nmbers during the period of the
co sultancy services. GO? duly recocnI,ed the requiresent for
continuation *f assistance from consultants and consltancy cantract
extensions enabled the Project Seortariat. to continue In being until
Dember. 19&4,. !owever ita effectivenes  detertorated - serioa2ly becaus
of understaffing atd poor transmittal of data and progres reportin  from
the kabupateas with the result that the conclusion of the- Prosec
conultants contract effectively termiated Prosec activity.
In April 1985 the Poject Secretariat, was re-eotivated ad entitled
Project  .anagmat Unit (W1) with greater nvolvemen't in ita  _anhg.t
vested in l  *t again with responsibility to .S&A. ToG¢eial Statf
numbering 13, were provided by wOa and administrative staff, numbering 4,
were provided by-tEA.
The consultants to Prosee were re-appointed ti April 1985 Initially for a
period of 12 sonths and resobilisation took pLaee between June and
September. Sinze then, permanent accommodation, secoodment of devoted
staff aad provision of computing facilities enabled the introduction
of more erfaotive p4oeet performance moultoring, more exteswive planning
of anual prograine  within the Project and preparatory work for the
proposed saoood I=U Rural Roads Project.
Mhe facilitisa made avallable through the creatioa of the PMU have beon
widely deployed on a range df ad boo assignments and the workload
comprised an adzixture of routine management and planing and sub project
research task. Altho   this has contributed greatly to i broadning of
exposre of permanent 3tarr to diverse problem  it bj not enabled the
completion of traini"g of all  -:40 to 1.2 ;aZint at fke4f4 the necessary
.mu~O:a var.^w.-w::: _-4. o-'4t -* -l?.tr4-, -ftton  c.Ia - 4i        a



36
independently or techic   assistance. However, with the provision of
tchotical asaisths aubsequent rural roads prograes can bo enlared tn
the confidenoe that the basc prowedres, oranisational structure ad
staffng are established.
2.S3.  Prepaatio  of Furthe Do   an  D oI frogrin
Consultants wer  selected  and  appointed to prpare road developmePt
prcgrams for 43 cabupaten and 18 DMPs.  ThiS Work was ompleted and
submitted to 3ia !ar;a by aid 1984.   woever, the resultant progra.s
were not Subsequently forualated into projects  utable for intermaionaL
funding in view of the deceleration in the overall pace of rural road
investment fuOdnG-. Much of thv prepartory worit for thes   Studies was
carried out with estenSLTv use of DPUK ad DPU staff for data gathering
and was therefore a valuable  oazercai  in identiMng their capollety.
TUB .prtenc  Indiatsd strongLY that subsaquent planning on a rational
bais  shoLd  be  carried  out by the Project ttngeint Unit. Revased
programma for subsequent intertioaUy fuded rual roas projects
were therefore formalated by PHU a1 their consultants.
g  . ^~~~



37
3.             mu or W  R08     0MITa:ZTT
3.1.               KM=  n RUIUL £3353
The contruction and betterment vor*i  that have been carried out have
facilitated the moveasnt of people and  goods witin the rral areas ot
the 25 kabupatens.  Many roads and tracks that were previously ipasale
for motor veicles either permanently  or seasoally have been rendered
passable throughout.the year. Others have been upgraded such that
transit times and costs have been reduced. For the zones of influence of
these roads at least, thetr populations now enjoy greater ability for
travel between their villages and local markets, administration and other
welfare and cultural contres.
swovever the extent to which oWbility has bee m proved Is Impossible to
zeasureo Zsoitoriug of traffic volumes and copoaitioe Mas bhe cf arriet
out on a sample of kabupaten roads with this objectIve in mind but the
results are Inconclusive. Generally, the resulta show that improvement
in rod surface condition do result in a shift it- the Cb mpeatioa  of
traffic aay from non-otortsed to motoried modes.  Thr also  Indicate
that within th* motorised category of traffic, smaller vehtcles, for
example saloon cars, pickups etc, also tend to displaAe larger vthicles,
particularly buses.  These resulta  auggest ttat improved road  ereate
greater dm_ad for more frequent and rapid modes of transport even though
the form of transport which are displaced would ha" been available at
lover coat.
Crude estimates of total passenger movements, an the basis of average
vehicle occupacles also inftcato an icrews  in the mber of trWpo
t'ollowing road improvement.   However, for over halt the roads in the
3ample of 20, the estimated frequency of trips per capita reduces, which
indicates that increased abilit7 to travel is not alwayt expressed aa a
rise La trt; fequency. hi3s anomaly may be More apparent- than real;
iprsav4d m.Lyac  ellcw individualz zw     -                     r tri2 than
prsv%ou:zy a=, I. ;' Cs;*._'d __;0. :-



38
trip, thus rendering fewer te number of trips n'eed   to service easc
household. Also, aeces to the areas aerved by the road become easier
for trders aid merchants basd outaide the area of influec.   With
better acces they am more likely to be willing to visit and trade in
the village  than- hitherto.  Thus the not effect oay be a fq*'   tho
umber of persaon  aov%a  even thouph tho movement of g0043 my riao and
the welfare of those 3orve by the road is enhanced. The resources that
have been available ror moitortag the project have mat enble  survey
work to be  ffioiestly detailed to explain the reasons and motives for
travel or to measure the economic and welfare effecta on the rural
populatIons.
3.2.        5SSAIIM  CAPABZ=
3.2. 1. G1CeMa
The project proied technical  asstance, training, equipmnt, workshops
and laborstZri faouities to raise  cabupaten capability  to plan,
contruct and mintain rwal roads.  The chan   In performance for each
kabupaten in each of these functions cannot be masured but Ua  ben
broaly   ssesed.  la suary the objectives Iave been attained, but to a
variable extevt, with respect to the oonstruction and bettersoet of
roads; bave not bee, asigificantly reached with regad to  nintacance;
ard  have been tota     ssed with reaaed to plannizZ.
3.2.2. C_bupaSm faia w  tuty
Any hoe that   _         I  in rurl roa  developmet plannig would  be
acieved by the pJect. "  originaly forilated wer  rendered forlorn by
a number of factors. The project content did not Lake sufficient
provision for training of kabupatan 3taft  in road infrastructure
plannina.  All planAig works waa  concentrated within the Project
preparation phase,  ard  annual  revi.v  were  not  enecuraed.   Future



39
progz'UinS  for each  cabupaten were dram  up without any input at the
planing or prioritisation decision iadng stage at  pabugaten level.
Thus there was no oanus on the kcabupateas to provide r planning
capablity.  Contact betweea the project planning  capability  and  the
twividual kabupatas was therfore very mac at ur= length.
Furthermore control over individual cabupaten programes was only
ezercnied thruch Znpres J"lan  utaing  nd kabupatens remained az liberty
to allocate the :npres tabupateu ftuds tn the subjective way that
previously prevailed.
Thus althoug  planning procedures and mauals were distributed to the
Icabupatens there was neither the capability to utilise them mer the ned
to provide the aapablit7.
The situation is 3ild:ar for the doesign and aoating of oivtl works.
Although zom& appropriately qualifted star have been  appoaint  tn the
kabupatens, all desig  work ba  bee carried out oentaay on the  basis
of standard designs or carried out by the field consulta4ts. Coat
estimation as been carried out on the basis of generalized unit cost
stimates and crude etiate  of quantities.  TIe absemoft sufficient
tunds for longer term planin  and the modua operandi which permits only
a short period for preparing project budgets attigate  againt aore
systeSatic  and thorough design and cost estimtlng a"  prevents
beneficial iSuts from technical assiste SoMItaUt WAG a              e.
Until thb. system  of financing proigrae planning oe-. year before
impleMentation iS established , 3I6fICantV- IproVeMMtta i  desig  and
cost- estimating at kabupaten level ut2l be  frutrated.
Thus, in summry, kabupaton capabill±twith respet to plannig km not
been significantly improved by the Project beoaua  tecnal assistance
has been too thinly dispersed with rgard to engieerig  ilpertise and
also functionally and geographically too divoro4d frvz tha kabupatens



40
3.2.3  Caital  er uplaS tato
As stated above, the objective of tsproving the capability of the
kIabuaten to develop tteir rwal road ntwors   as bee  the mt fully
achieved. Several kabupateas can now be considored ca4010e of
plenentitg   future rual road network eManaion and betterment scheMe
to an adequate standard without extrusl asistace to this respett,
provided that equipment replacemet and 3taff caabUities an  attitudes
art maintained.  Other kabupates however remai  tnaspable of thIs
performance ad are  ;nlikely to develop rural roa  networks that will
satisfy national objectives and standards without further external
assistance.
By way of an indieation of the extee; to wtich the 25 kabupatms are nom
capable of Implementing civil work  prjecta satisfatorl2y Table 3.1
has been drawn  up.  Against  *ch kabupgaten each broad aspect of
capablity has  been  evluted as either, full  capability  now attained,
ful cap"lity not yet attaad but signiicantly Improved or little or
negligible  improvemn.  As the tabe shovw  thee has bee  a genea
achievemnt of the objectitv. of UWrvin  capability.
3.2.X.   tate              t
Potential capability to mainai  adequately the kabupaten road aetworics
was enhanced by the provtow  of equipmat and associted workshops in
each of the 25 imbapates.  fraWarf."   ar potan&l nigity inS               f
aur.ceticm-.Lf.Mut otpw aNo .tw                       Little incentive or
assistance hamVF"e  provdi during th  currency of the proJect becauxe
no techncal assistance or training was provrded for this purPOSe, either
as a project component funded by the  loan or otherwse.  As a result th
plannig,, volume and quality of saintAnanee work remains poor.  The nee
to address the probles of per mantenance has ben address"d by the
Government an  the Second Riusl Roads Project includes com e ts
raize miantesunce standards In thse 25 kabupatans.



41
TARZ 3.1.
h&a-T U' IAuPA  CAPW.T!-B  703  ODI~n *ni
SVPERVT3Z4   FORC2    EQUIPHFT  WOKHOP           EORATOR?  HOC &
CONTACT       ACCOUNT  USAGF       FACZLXT!  FACZLf"?   3RDGZ
WORKS         WORKS                                        j4AINTC
w1? JAVA
Cireban               to*                                000            0          0
Su caln *ga             S              I0                se *§                     ,,
Bogor                 *o0 ,0                              000 *o       t
Lebak                  se             se       to        to            00 X
Pandeglang              *o                               *4*
Becaculu o*Uta ; * 
Benghklu Selatan      000                      o0          to         too
Rejang Lebong                                                         to 0         0
Sarolangun                                                                
aaagai                 00              *      0O           *0           *          0
Tasiung Jabung         0               *
Bungo Tebo                                                             to 00  0 *  0
Kerinci               000            000      00          000         00           0
ZSm SzUa
P.slsIr SeataR         0             0        0 
Soock                                                      00
Savahlunto              *
Partiaan              400           to        000*                     to
sORTH S5U A
Tapanuli Selatan                        0Xx oo             0
Asahan                               *0                    so          Of          a
Simalungu                                      t o                                 X
Deli Serdang          *O 00                   000         e X                      o
Dairt                                                     se *  00  00  0 
Nias                    *              *        o           a            a         a
Notes:   0  a4equate capability attained
capability slgifncaitly lprove  by Proet
* capability improvement little or negligile
Source: Based on information froS  Technical Ass3itance Cosltants.



42
3.3.    1OY2       I   M MT AI  PLANE=
The fourth ala of the activities embraced br the Project was to improve
vwrkable   a      t tc ques and planning mthods tor rual roas and
prepare s alar programs in additionaL provinces and cabupatans
DurinG  1983/84 consultants prepared  five-year programes for 43
kabupateus and l8 provinces and subait.ed them  to the Govermeat of
Indonesia. Bwo ver these programs were not acted upon ecause it had
become  clear, La the meantime, that the current programme would be
unfullilled in-the pertoC  aa planned and that finance would aot oe
availabl..  Furthermore the inaitutionala chanes aecessary to implement
structured programmes prepared more than one year in advance were not
mado thus undrmaning the valuo of longor terz planning studies to this
level and detail.
As t1e termination of this Rural Roads P?oject caze into view and
preparations tor the Soeond Rural Roads Projeet becsme ancassary,
oOmprehensive one year programes were formulated for up to   100
kabupatens.  Al.o longer ters maintenance and inapower and training
programoes were prepared.  This work was carried out centraly by the
ProJect Haaageinet Unit an  its consultants, with assitance in data
colloction and anpower resowurolg of trafia surveys by the kabupatens.
Greater involvement by the kabupatens would  ave been desaraole but ma
not  possible in the absence of appropriately qualified loaal staf? and
the short time to prepare the programmes. Thus the kabupatens have
played only a inor role in the preparation of structured rural roa4
prograoe.  Furthermore thQe proams bave not necessaril7 tOrMed the
kabupaten progams that am actually iaplented.  The kahupatans ha,*
retained their mtoncm in determining which roads are to bo contructed,
improved and maintained ti each year and the ceotrally prepared
programma have oal7 beon used ia a guideline for the accestance of
single projects for Inpres Jala funding or for olligbility tor foreign
aid A1ading assistace.



43
Thu  the Projet tas mg aianiatly  hanged the outheis of tomlatizg
rUra  red plannin  at. kabaten leva.  AlthoUgh this lack ot prores
may be disappointin  it is undwrtandable.  The manpoer aAd financial
resources ot the Icabupaten are constrined by the prevaS4 seconoic
situation.  Provision of a comprehensive networC of ruzL roadx LA good
condition is not only a mjor underzaking but also just one ot several
functions oa  the DPU   moGgt wvlch their reources Mat be deployed.
Liawledge and apprecationt loal co1Aitton. are pre-requisites tor
decision making in such cirutances and therefore auto         in plin
and mnagemet coatrol Is vested in the kabupaten.  The Loan Agreemet
has required tht sucb authority and responsibiity remain  with te
kabupatens and the ProJect was 4ireote4  at improving cpabi-tyS to,
esreis the  authortties and responsibilities.
-3 achieve theso objective the Project provided resources to prepare
manuals and guidelines appropriate tor use at  caupaten lavel.  Thase
were torwlatad by the Project Managemet Unit and their consultants.
The creation ot a coprehemaive system of Project  autoring was slow to
establish initially becauso thi limited resources of the Project
Secrtariat. and their consultants were deployd ainly oan building up
ProJect nomentum.   Ther  wee furthe- obstaclos presented by the poor
flow of infrmtion from the 25 kabupaten and it wa  not posible for the
Project Secretariate to function adequately on conclusion of their
consultants' initial contraet, despite an estensioan of three months.
However, witt the esteosion of the project execution period, the
replaemenot of the Project 3ecretariat. by the Project Hanagem t Unit
and the re-engagement of the consultants, the montoring systems and
withdraval appLication procedures were satisaictorily developed with
on the job trainiag of Governat satar to car  out aost of the tasks.
The Project fangement Unit has also formulated road and bridge design
and cost estizating models compatible with those of Bina Marga and
acceptable to then as the national policy authority In ths regard. ft4d
ad bridge maintenance procedures and management SethMs have. also been
ddvelopad.  ,:rwivar :'  3 :.4  ot :,3couari17 bs Ututili3e  by the DPU a
JaA4X-: Oi. ,JJ_ _ _-:'^.  4--



44
:val3r rural roa5s development prgrzuues were prepared  itially for 43
ct.er kabupatens.  (owever tnese programes  were overtaken oy dtorr
implementation of a second ZIRO Rursl Roads Project and alternative
conztruction and botterment programmes ror up to 55 Ikabupatens, ere
prepare  by the Project !4anaCement Unit.  Haintenaneo progrenes have
oeta ;repared ftor trese additional kaoupaten and f(or the 4S !,abupatens
coWrisin6 tse :co;* of tZia Project.
However the application ot tbh  planning methods codtained. in then
requires maJor ocanaes in planing philosophy and procedures and training
or kabupaten   person l.  Such changes  canot be effected  uttil the
value of structured planning methods using local data ob4ectively  is
appreciated aad perceived  short term nes become less pressing.  Thi1
situation d±d not prevail during the currency of the Project aft 3houl4
not b  expected In the  near future.      fveztheles  ^tutw   projZets mat
strive to instill ln the kabupatens greater discipline in road
developmet planning uad mnagement of resurc.,



45
4. TOTAL flWE? 005! AM SAM LOUN
4. I. PU          C
The total ost directly -aocsited with the Implementation of tie project
is  difficult to assess.  On the oue hand the contrution of Government
resources includes same coponents  that are shared  between te Pro'ect
and other development programmes. Ia particular those components
include certain equipmet and mapower  resources of the OPs which are
used for constrction anaintonance of facilities other than roads. On
the other had the limtation impsed an the funding of rea  acostmutiou
under the  nproe  Jalan progra=. led to the ilusion of road projecta
funded from the Inpres labupaten programes to be submitted for
assistance from the loan.
Excluding the nprs tabupaten projects and the oamt of shared ressares
the total uos  of the Project     estimated at Rp 132,000 milliom, see
Table 4.1, which i, equivalout to about US $ 110 million at ourrent
prices, Of the - total Project cost kp 85,000  l.lion was aoae d. by the
civil worcs progra=s in 25 kabupata,  the support progra=m  for 9PUK
Jambi an  the costruction of workahops ia 43 kabapetens, this last item
bein  included as a supplentary component durin  t4  coure of project
implementation. Of these civil worics the 131 loan faoillity contributed
61 per cent.
Equipment for roadworks, commuiaotions, workshops and laborstories
accounted fop a further Up 26,000 million, about US $ 26.0 million. TisU
was considorably lower than originally eatimatod despite the.. Inclusion of
workshops and laboratory equipent provision tn the additional-43
kaburatens. The reduction resulted from much lover than estimated ec¶ts
of Impcrted and loeally produced items and the reduc-ed aed for lacally
procurid  itams.  The loan fund provided 93; of t2:a fiance fzr thi
component.



46
TABU 4.1.
TOTAL PROJECT COST AND ThBD CONPONEMT
TOTAL     Ufl CO2UoN
COST
(Rp m)     (Rp m) (38 m)   ()
25 Kabuatemos
1982/1           14,675       4,ThS     4.70   32.67
1563/4           11,253       8,80'    8.18    78.24
1984/5           17,038      13,40'4   11.55    78.tO
1985/6           17,792      14,409     8.83    80.99
1986iT            3,261       2,259     1.38   69.27
1987/8           14,587       8,182     6.02   56.09
43 WotaShopa        4,300    2.96         1.72   69.02
DIPP  mctb           1,859       1,85g    1.35   1o0.oo
S3B-TOTAL          84,765      56,17    43.73:   66.67
25 Kabpetem 
010  Jabt        19,000"-    17,081    1t.56    89.90
3p1 M rta          1,280       1,280    1.19   100.00
Workabopa:
25  bupatam        1,560       1,560     1.56   100.00
43 CablPatew       3.135      3.135     1.79   100.00
Laboratory:
25 labutam          600         6"  -  0.57 - 100.00
43 Kabupatem        660         660   .0.38   100.00
Coino±atom:
25 tKbpateg         400         400     0.27   100.00?
SO-TOTAL           269235      24,316    23.47    92.69
CONSULTANT3
pmsew/w             7,850       7,t74     5.97    98.68
TA 18 zabt  *
D11P JAM"           8,000       7,806    6.43    97.58
TA 7 tKabpat         4,200*      4,0.     3.34    96.52
43 tabupaten         0oo          800     1.10   100.00
SM-TOTAL           20,850       20,4C6    16.84    97.87
TOTAL              131,850     101,235    84.04    76.78
?r 1:>:ict, '4iczZIeant MU.



Total Project Costs
(Revised March 1989)
Tabte I.
Co pargsm GI Project Costs from RA1 Staf f Apraisat Report(Dec ter, 1961) NIth PMUE Estimates of Final EEp!al itres in Rupiah *d U5 DoltarS
"A  ROADS 1.                          Rupiah Sillion.                                                     US S mtilion.
LOWN XZ83- IN.    331 Staff Appraisal Report   ...         UC Estimates      ml staff Appraisal Report   SU         FNUC Estimates
Project             Locat   Forelgn   Total    Local   foreifn   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign    Totat
El _nts:                              |   O                      _     O)(A)                        (C)             Diskin ts    (D)
A. Civil Morks .
1. MM Progrks<         58.3      23.Z     61.5      56.2      22.4      78        93.3      37.2    130.5      34.4       40.3       74.7
2. JaiDPUP Prog         3.6       1.                             .6      1.9       5.8       2.        A.S       .3        1.4         .
S"htetal A:            61.9      24.9      86.8     57.4      23.1      80.5      99.1      39.9    139.)      34.7       41.        76.4
I.Road Equipment        1.2      21.5      22.       1.1      19.1      20.2       1.9      34.3     36.2        .0       19.2       19.2
2.Uisc.Equi#! ntUf       .1       1.2       1.3       ,0        .4        .l .1              2.0       2.1       .0         .3         .3
3.Vehicles and  *       2.0       7.9       9.9       .5        .0        .5       3.1      12.7      15.8       .4          0.4
Otber Ehipmmt.
S.btotsl B:             3.3      30.6      33.9       2.1     19.1      21.1       5.1      49.0      54.1       .4       19.s       19.
C: DPIE IIorkshops
I.Land/WitdingssU       3.8        .4      4.2        5.5       .6       6.1       6.2       .s       6.7       4.7        1.         6.4
2. t   s   E      q      .2       2.1       2.3       .5       S.3       5.8        .2       S.5      3.'  .o              4.3        4.3
wd Lgoratory Ep         *4.       2.5       6.5       7.3      4.6      11.9       6.4       4.0      10.'      4.         6.0       10.7
0: CoAuting              .        2.1       2.7      5.3      18.7      24.0       1.0       3.3      4.3        .0       16.8       16.8
Services                                                                                                                                              0
Base Ccst              69.8      60.1    129.9       73.9     63.6    137.5    111.6        96.2    207.8      39.9       84.0      1Z3.8
E: Continoeoies=
1. -h.icat              6.9       6.0      12.9 No Data  No Data  No seta         11.1      9.6       20.' No Data  No Data   No Data
2. Prict               35.0      13.0     48.0 No kata  No Data       D Oata      56.0      20.7     76.2 no Data  No Data   No Data
Sublotal E:            41.9      19.       60.9       .0        .0        .0      67.1      30.3     97.4        .0         .0         .0
F: Low C.tellatn
.... U                .0         .0    -1J.0I        .01      .1        .0                  .      - IS*       .0         .          .0
Total Project Cost    111.7      79.1             _             - 63.6  37.5    178.J   126.*    290.2         39.9       8u.       123.
Ratio AID:        |Ratio C/D                                                          4
Votes:
''' Assumes the  -  retatinsbip betweer tocal and Foreign Costs (tRid,) as the Staff Appraisal Report 198)1.
SU For U  S casts, tie totat Disbursemnts sd. by ISNO are knur.
O EactiLms Depreoiation of ROad 6pipmnt financed aaoer the Project.
-' Incides Spare Parts but excludes 4ther good Eipment purcdad locally by 001.
# Incluies RRI Cimications Equipt.
Estimate of dotty C01 furded Pic*-Ups ad Ibtorcycles suppliec to 25 KabWaten.
U Eactudes ad Aquisition for both of the 23 ard 43 Kdqxaten Ocrkshops.
t No cata is avaftable for the rentisation of Physical ad Price Conti gencies.
90 folltoin  a revision to the Loan Abreamt in 1985 , the 7otal 13D Allocation was redwed from 100 US S R. to 85 US S M.



47
The extension to the project iplementatiou period and the consequent
requiremet to exed the Techncal Assistance coUsUeyanCy services to
the DO=s, DPUI Jai and the project Secretariat*  EAd Project Manageent
Unit inrerased the cost of consaultancy sorvies provided under the
Project. The total coat of thaese sorvices at Bp 20,854 million, 3 $ lI1
million, is over three times the amount estiated prior to tinalisation
of tho Loan Agreement.
3.2.     D     =          L=  3 
Disbursemeat Of the loan fund Vas slOW particularly during the first
tvelve months and in the period mid 1984 to end 1985. During these
periods difficulties were  perieanced in the prpeprCatU  of withdrawal
applications for civil wors.  During the last two yeas when eligibility
for loan funding has had to be more extensively determined an both
construotion quality and plaonnng grounds,  the  lo  of subaisson of
withdrawal application  has bee  more irregular.  F41gue 4.  preseta
the schedule    oexpected and actual dts of the Loan.
4.3.      1    CMUqAZ VM  LOOD COUAm
;he Governmest of Zndou%uAa experienced some difficulties in complying
with its obligations as specified in the Loan Agreement. This was
particularly the case with respect to providing adequats staffing of
DPUKs, and of a technical support facility prior to implmntation of the
Loan Agreeme_t.  The   jwt ty of additional  personnel needed for the
Projecta were required to be techncaly well qualified and the Minstry
of Hoe Affairs hat.liited manpower resources of this nature.  The major
souroe of suoh personn*l is the Ministry of Public Works whose own
development programes were extensive. Furthermore, as in siailar
situations  in  other  count?ies, srat  difficulty  vas  experienced  in



Uat  aaa
i    A      a~    A                         as -           
t~~~~~~~
'    i :
*                                        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 1



49
recruit!= or- Un.rr* net4  staff to provincial regons.  'ith
regard to staffing the techical support unit in Jakarta, the propoed
temporary natur of ths facilty was unattractive to potential employ..s
and, Initally, only part-tim  stat? saoadmeuts coat4 be made.
Othorwise, 4n general, the conditions of the loan have be  complied
with. DetaIus or compliance with indivtdual articles of the Loan
Agreement are presented as Appendis G.
4.4.  PlU   S             AU
During the implementation period of the Project, nine Bankl Missions
visited Zdonesia and held discasions with representatives  of releant
Goverment departmenta.  The timings of the missions were as follows
1982   : De"ber
1903   : June
1984   : February, May, Oto.ber
1985   : Februw
1986   : ebrWuar/Mar, October
1987   : Sptauber/October.
Due concemr was shn by the 8uM abut the 3sler than ezeatad rate of
loan disbursement, the quality of work being perform    and institutional
and plannng aspects.
Goverment proposals for more rapid aAd effactIve use of Loan funds by
extending the Project sce  witthin the overall objectives were thoroughly
considered by the Bank misons and appropriate approvals for amndmnts
promptly obtained.   n particular the  agreemat to equip 43  additional
cabupateas with worzcsop  and equipmat in preparation for the second
IBRD Rural Road Prjeat was welcomed both as a means of accelerating
disbursement of the Loean and to ensure greater efficiency in the



50
colaption of civi works  under  subsequent  progames.  Agreomut to
extend the consultancy services coponent was also valued by the
Goverment In  view of the  on-going 4iffriultles Ia staffing the
technical support service, the need for seel revisions of the future
plannin  of rurl roas developmet,  acd in continuing to 1 wov  the
capability of the DPUs in road and bride construction and bettement.
Early appreciation of the difficulty of uatiliiag the original loan to
its full M  ' 100 was reaised by the Beua  nd the faoil±Z  Ws reduced
to uS $85 milion during 19P/85.
Thus tn suary the Back maintaed an amroens of and symathy towards
izplemeutation problema an4 assisted constructively In their
satsfactory reolution.



51
APPENDIX
POST PROJECT SAMPLE ROAD EVAWATIONS



52
LPIU           PT= P5WCT SIWLE 1A  ZIALATIONS
Long term monitoring of kabupatea road development we eaction to
development is an essential task the result of whiah should provide
valuable guidance for future developmet Programing.  Poet coustrucion
aoitoring  ti  the 25 kabuPateo was caried out o', eo ht projects in
1984/85 and on 20 projects in 1987/88.   Tho latter Included thoe
additional monitorinG of the prevouv s eight projects and all had beer
subjects to the sampi  evaluation at the pro project appraisal stag* in
ige. R   f .  *_^  -24 '*I UZ-IZ  ha. canatitut   :;46 WL    pr*-pWjqM.: Avprzzis
sample bUt the link In HISaS was not included In the post-project
evaluation for logistical reasons. Thus the sontoring e rerlse Shoul.
provide good comparison of pro and post project sitoations plus, for
eight links, a aid-project situation.
The smple links and montoring dates ar  liste  in Table 1.1.
2   PWL CZTZO
Details of the pro-project and post project (1988) road surface types and
aooditions are presnted in Table 5.2.  In wuinrY ths table  shows that
no capital expenditure had boen deployed on three of the the links,
although on one, Cipaku-Teluk Pin ag ±4 go,gr, maintenance expenditure in
1986/87 had been entesive (Rp 24 million)e On 12 of the links there was
reported to be no intenssanc esxpenditure.
Of the ftve earth roads in 1981, one had been upgraded to Teltord
constructioa and two had been rebuilt with asphalt surfaoing, the
remaning tWo remained as earth roads ad had rmained In or deteriorated
Into bad conditiono. To roads which hd beeo part earth part gyavel
surface had both been isproved in 1982/83 and were asphalt surfaced
although their present condition in 1988 was onlY fair-.



11145 54 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~*ra   ft#                                  1"s
ib.     Kakqaale     from           to            cA             Sul lBU        194 Is"ftwi
Will JAVA
t       Uor    * tCipaSu             6I pi                 9.1                                 a
£Ju&elt ngS                           4.*
*      PandsaIsis   CIIuyaAg        saistrI          U n.1   a          a        a      a      a
tlzl~~~~~.~Us  pt:IS.
6   *jWloeS          l     dpiu     41S                     4.0    a                            a
W. 1A
r 1                osu4                                      .1.    a    a ,
S      Asba           I l gre       Uj.mgth    81.8         8.0   a                      a      a
It     31      1 Pk  na             lb ake        34        a.0    a     aa
1I     Pes     SIto siu             Li            66.0 S  a                       a a    a     a
11     Peidle         SgSS.a        1egAa         U        31.0 a                 a      J     a
14     SMenbarl Sp1 j                                       4.0   a      *        a      a     a
U5     SweIob          epme        t    u Beta             ''    Ku                      U . *aa
UU               i  lanA   CWlan                          a                        .
5      gorse l        hIS pur   Behs t. 34.1  14.0   a
Z~~~~~~oo     wInc I"bo    It                               81 .   
t     . Sm...uh . Uk  . rEt.r. t     ...S P..l.. . 14.0 ..                               a
1*     bIn   Laui   oras            S.d soB                18.1   a1                     a
20     Bein  1eam  loin  t rem 3uuIBasI.t                  1.6  11                       a
........................ ....f............................



54
Only one gravel road of the eight in the 1981 remained with gravel
surfaeo, SIX had beer uperaded to asphalt surface dresasic and the
remaining one had bee  rooonstructed with Telford structure.   itkt the
exoeptlon of this lat mntioned which was In bad codition ia 1988, the
condition of these roads was better than in 1981 despite a  pmral lack
of maintenance.
The four origil penetration macadam and one asphalt road wee, by 1988
all asphalt surfaced and In rair or good condition, again despite limted
maintenance subsueontly.
The above results are unimpressive and confirm generally the mid project
conclusions regarding quallty of construction, that Is, that severe
deterioration of newly constructed or improved roads sets In v y soon
after completion.   Such rapid deteriorstion   cannot be attributed to
additional traffic or heavior traftfi generated by the Improved road
condition becauas the evidence of tafftlo surveys icAieates that
additIonal trafio Is ligpt and not of aedium or heavy vehileas. Thu It
must bc conoluded that d4terioralow Is caused mainly by- cllmatic
conditions, partiularly rain, which these kabpaten roads have not been
conatructed to withstand adequately.
However, all the improveaent works on the roads in the sample were
carried out erly In the roject.  Therfore- they provide no evidene as
to the value of the project In raising standrds of construction. STh
evidene* of the fleld consultants l that, in tfat$ standards have
liproved in most kabupatan. On golng 2oultorig, work sbould continually
add to this smple suoa-that Changes; i  construction standamds over tim
can be aasaae . from c_anps ir the longevity of the works performd.
Although the srvey of the as1e roads idicates that mem construction
and bettermet works have deteriorated rapidly, the conditions of the
roads were generally better In 1988 then In 1981; the exceptions being
the new Telford construction road and,  unmaurpriagly, the thrie roads
not Included In the capital works programme. Bowever on all the roads of
the sample, icreases  in average apWd were suggsted bY the resUlt3.
M=l4 2 raul CU14 ?W-1   r C     94th 43Yt4 oa tlea'::ZIine.tele ec**dition,



m   ma1s MA IwuIc CSAus    1961 AM  190
......................................................................................................................
P ON no     La nk                     SW I       Cudtti,   Awae"I          Neser      IPesuw  Io Tripsap
*               .15,6   1191 ^    Si§^ss (k1 I VilsICU                          I        f*"
I  -                      i      wi      u 1w    v    1w  i9Stt 1wv" t Wda  PW  tw
.I  --             i     i                I             ~~~~~~~~       ~     ~~Issi n i  163  191 i1
................    ..........  ..............  ---- ...... --   ,- -  ........------........------........------........
me" ~           CID"ba    As                         roel  Fselt  30    36    1551  10'%          9W?  6.7  6.42
1o&mk Piro*
low cemmqir                             g_  ,*       B48        , ML  . 3       96  1W     m    4m    G.Zl 0 .41
gawi Uffna   1.
3   m*.l          CO_tq                  5115  tif    VJ4   Paw   to    a s              a 3   361         0.M .   0.10
P e"  WtV         JI                     Pie. As      P      fatit  20    3       21    41 182  131   0.12  0.6?
hnaautu
5 Cl_ini          Cikakolt        t        W   *An     PWt "WI  U          a     2M     76    GM91  814   6.49  0.15
6  Lobh           Cairn    -Ww  A                      Potw  ftai    15    29     155   7X   18   MU        .1  6.
7  Tap "iSelm     Peiu"  Si     n        PA. AGO    PP   iW    5           40    17   116   52    626  L49  0L4X
Slin.yiem                                 Fair
Ash              Ta_z_   ?in                  As     Fai   God   33            10       m        t Ms    m    Ot .U
tO *e'IJ          ?ajw  Titrl            tr_  *1h   F_t 548                22      Olt 164   55    f       OU    0  .8
9  Sin& u         Tile _is"        _       W   A    Xp    fait   5                14    m      7       2   6      .1
11 364eV          Aa,~eVaes              Pi. As        fair  Pale' _       41 2 5  92 I"          1"5I   6.3  0.29
It pel.sets    Wide                     Wm  Ad        Pas  God   U        52     6      M1      6  mm   aml 6.1
13 Parian         Seaqelfto              As    Ag      Fel  Fele   N       49    1703   70    675A  844   6.9.32
Sligpw tinjuq aleS
J"_
14 "Ut_i                    tW   Stew   POW  Pst  as                       29     56    192    4.   1300  0.14  0*.9
Is lunqe 1mb      Spap $eth  ins   Fatir  P al- 23                         2      56     5     346  716   6. 17  646
14 LeriWi         M"mon  Tmnjuq          ame  Al*   Paow  Fair/  U         39    963    4295314  3513  6.67  6.31
Tu#8:   iAq                               Pkw
17 Sereb          U** Cman               at"   Aap   POst raie   3         4a    2s3    aw9   139   17m    0.3   6.n
lonst. uSers   Earuq Tisqelr    "a511    sh   5111   Is    I1                     6    S.    155  334    14?  6.1
19Sjon    gIPom                       VOW  -O    148   Fair   5         3*    1O4 7*         91M I   6L16  0.65
* S.jieeani              1.1.
20 SIions LMqM  teium  £ewriq             Srav  Aso    1a8   Fairl  15    v 37     3    13    IS   1545  6.1   6.67
............ ..........e  ..    .........    ............a.......................
*                     IA



CUAi   SN IS llNAIO  iAHIC CU SMWti MD$  1951   195
................................ ...................................................................... ........................
.ftSRod 22                 I  I  I a    I      1      1'     S  I 6  I     22   I *  I  Sis I            la  I II , 14 1 is *If   Is6  I if  I is    1520
iIA-IIGIONIIS (AA01)
Was tratllIcc                  It   2a  Sl   432    S1    Is    Isis              4       III   Inl     50   144   410          91    542S               541
diIeB,nge from les1         .30   *81   19    222   -603  *3         .1 4s         -58   -4.   -56  -16  -141 2          *2 1    -41  .14 -814          *311
19g18,reic                      3    14214    49          It    is    1i            20    59    35    I 2t     1      o    26   2      16     29      9
al t9terwe fees lost          .91    50  2'1   -22   -126   -59   .115  *2          16   -S9  *.35  #1S4   'I   *'5   .2         91   *SI  -480  *-A    -3
'abssngar $icyole
tea S9.l* . Irc 6                    .1                  566"    4    Sit   303   I1s    46   127       4      55   *U A   50   2        93 73    1    *t   14
ill§|;tse ores lost            #9   #11      i     4 "  -1" 66     *..8      -08   .25    -3  .181   -649  -119   112   -15  -144   *S        *1  .13   *45
19U6 tcrafeic                            .-A5                                               4745 240 3IU           8     20   125    SO   10    103 S
.1|1thm-48 1fro  l9tl         *3    It  4*u  *|02  A2X    *g}9    $a U              .     2    *"    U             *44,  *20   -§J   II          *2    1   *2
iI.................     ..1        5 -, --0-   11                                  4      4     4       9    . ....  ....  ....  ....  ........... ..................................
1    t9 8ra9Eic                     -                   -                            1-           7 2               - r                -       2
iII9.r"a  irGee 1951                                    -64   -33     -IS    -I    21   *        .1          -                    6
Iota'
1938 urallic           4       25    13   171   461    515   116   2216            Su6 5  245   302   Isla  298   al1   419  1576   in3  294   3M   17
Jitee.,c  less 1961          -38*  *1U  #2"4  -248  -In*  -4251 .154  -241  184    .8  #185  -1142  4335  .484  .19   -317  *19I  -69    .24  .431
a01081160 (AA513
Me3 trafifc                   3    Ias 3281    5342    "6?   29       433   43n   320    62  12*    51    431   130    46   *46   353          4    40   151
j5iferaac.       lost 193     16   .4Q    '83  .I    -alto  .245   -11  -516    .6   .33  .16.5    -8  -411   .              I -   -893    .9      # 25  .31
1938 traffic                 1395  151  *          4   S4 40.95954   5 17  1   114 14120 15 9162    432 49
jife8r4ftsa ore  1961        .561   .1             3    -43  .31*    .11   .50   -       *I1   .1?  .114   .51   .15   .11  -114   -54    -I  -43   '31
Jais
lOIrIs"                                    --                  -           -       -.    -        6 ,          13-        *      I -  - Is-                    2
J1016r"o fre roI90             -5-                             -       -3 -         -      4     34    -44 -251   -       -      d     -     .     -     -
truick 1)
If"   traffic                 15?729         I    N0     6*  9         566          It1*5        19     94fit   42  21    10.54                           4
j590.eaaie ores seat          .40  .206    .1   U1        3    .6    -526   .318  -14   .20   .1*   .24   -IJA*.3?  .16   .25    431                -4 
(Dist
1988 treolls                 to30  1651    25   400    13    19    1064   Su2   IleI" 10         90    123   lea   392    a2  429   269        a    72 24
41116are. Itsea 1963         .446  .11 #   .28#  *12  .2113  *443   -5131 -488    -51 .241 .2191 .*I -1.31 .1330 # .25 -3    *86   .8   -32  .19*
"toe   I) Ulawlas. pJ4ip trucks.   tl  "ae lable 812 for ro0eramne to reW  1W.- rsaa.. sent 1ai4aaa.



.57
Weather conditions and traffic at the tim of Measurement will materially
affect this measuremnat, particularly oan the shorter road links.
3  TZAVVC
As with the condition survey results, the *Vidence of the traffic surVe7s
must not be takon too literally.  The prins facie evdenoo suggests
Increases In matoriSed traffic OAn 14 of the roads, including all three of
the unimproved roads, and  docrases on the other  SIX.  These six were
all reportedly in better condition In 198a than In 1981 and five had
received asphalt surfacing within the projoet period. The 1981 estimated
traffic volumes for these sti roads are generally bihX with respe3t to
zone of inf2uence population and may bave been subject to temporary
influences whica remained undetected and therefora not catered for in the
presentation of the result. It ahould be noted that the results from
poast-evaluation surnvys are internally more consistant, which Indicates
that traffic survey methods have been improvd be the project and these
results, ar therefore more reliable.
The totar nommotorised and sotorised ADT volume& as reported In the
1981 and 1988 trafi  couts are peseted along with the reported roa
conditions In Table B.3. The more detailed traffic volume In 1988 and
the iplied diferorece sinc 1981 are presented to Table l.4. The lack
of consistency ia these results is clear from the figure In tahese tables
and demonstratos the futility of any attempt to evaluate econoomc
benefits on the basis of these data.



..1 11.1 z  *      nMb COWI EIM (W SAW$ " P"A 0'* 
, . ........... ..................... ...................................................... ......................................................
oh'             'rceoaw             actual Co Lap t npreset $Slog
.; :   *                                     Ct       '   v   tent    .                  ^Bllll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ashat  elt oft "A  Old" UI
:  CC#    2; sir-              ~~~~~~~4.4    art^t  b          w          tol    gJIS      W4     as l    fair          be ouma
:nr                WIr                                             Wav e. pow
*i104                        10.111 s&tdou   r.t    C&Y^  1104r  4WfU  2ss  glu    w                          bo Nalmtano
AOreA       .       ~            t POW   Ul      ,o       e wit   poefair      so U6meniasu
l~ba            Sasrt I               4.6    Erave,    pr            miss       as         A/    64    Asb.at    fair   C       o Maitweon mat in I 91
b. U54Aian
>sX J | t.| WU U Si flt                                                                                      0* WA  196    a
It Fes.1statf    6*14&   12*6.6                Earth       fi        8W         In       U/IS   lS       L si  gaed            as _aiar lba
Aa               altihit  s .1m.6*     14.0   Brevet      pos                                                      PMU168  SO Ai.s fl  aIntens.6asc menhiii595
U. S&MAIA§                   w  wl                 U#U         w         S     lS       h |l     P M5e        la     *    _nk  4 1 5SS
".1"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~srie  wuieo..6a
fa Slt)amjw         ianjwug Bathing       1.1     Brevet nwlpoor        8          115        54   161    leiford   bad           Mo Mainte ance
It Solk,            I       a             9.6    E.at         lir        has        83       U8lu    19u       £sdt    fair        Mait for to    car id
ii sos.zIal.g.a     Solid                 6.8     Br*vl       pW         eag        115        54    SW     *a1_al      -           oMine
&1 i-.r,&t.a       Saaal Lisag            11.6    Aqhel;    fair        83/U       l4       83/81  336    Aeb&.lg   fair          Maointenakm  wo  ard la
Siaanj baig          14. .1.1           S           611t 1I 1936
.s a..taa1i1        Sp.baJa.b             54.0   Brevet       poor      83/U       346      53/81   56      BrwdI     po           ai. _m m intmac .4
I    saj  as        Sep inav              6.1     Earth        air      8U/U        65        I/U   £4      Earth     pOorhad   Maintenae llnl 459/86
4.8 b              poor  *   81181       113  . rS4    *~    laghat;   fair/pea .  .a '
; ,,j,Sal.O                                                                                                           ..    tlw uo f te  V Sm swaa  - I  |SW0|af
k*JA   iS1a       164   14in 1" .4    a ravnuwb  ba                    Ulu        lu18    17    Asob                 taiip       to ll wtnm
.j*s s rov s  r&wot
"1  ront^etmt
t  Inonian loyag
B) s mainteac  only



59
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMTION
1. Related Bank Loans andlor Credits
Loan/Credit                                                Year
Title                         Purpose                  Approved      Status
Credit 154-IND               Highway rehabilitation          1969        Completed
First Highway Project        & maintenance
Credit 260-IND               Highway construction            1971        Completed
Second Highway Project
Credit 388-IND               Highway construction/           1973        Completed
Third Highway Project        training/studies &
design
Loan 1236-IND                Highway Betterment/             1976        Completed
Fourth Highway Project       institution strengthening/
technical assistance
Loan 1696-IN                 Bridge & road construction/    1979         Completed
Fifth Highway Project        provincial institutions
strengthening
Loan 2049-IND                Toll road construction          1981        Active
Jakarta-Cikampek Project
Loan 2404-IND                Highway rehabilitation/         1984        Completed
Highway Betterment Project  institution strengthening
Loan 2717-IND                Highway maintenance and         1986        Active
Highway Maintenance          rehabilitation
and Betterment Project
Loan 2881-IND                District roads improvement      1987        Active
Second Rural Roads           and maintenance/institution
Development Project        strengthening



60
2. Proiect Timetable
Date        Date        Date
Item              Planned      Revised     Actual
-Identification           07/79       -          07/79
-Preparation              01/80       03/80      08/80
-Appraisal Mission        09/80       01/81      02/81
-Loan Negotiations        06/81       01/82      11/81
-Board Approval           08/81       03/82      01182
-Loan Signature            -           -         01/82
-Loan Effectiveness       04/82       05/82      08/82
-Loan Closing             12/86       12/87      12/87
-Project Completion       06/85       12/87      12/87
3. Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY82  FY83  PY84  FY85  FY86   FY87  FY88  FY89
Appraisal Estimate        0.0  28.3  63.9  84.9  100.0    -
Revised Estimate 1         -     -     -   41.0   66.2  85.0    -      -
Actual                    0.0   8.4  26.0  37.4   53.6  69.5  84.2  84.5
Actual as X Estimate 2    -      30    41    91     81    82    99    99
Date of Final Disbursements July 6. 1988
1 US$15.0 million cancelled in March 1985
2 X of Revised Estimate from FY85 onwards.



4. Proiect Implementation
A. Expected and Actual Civil Works Execution
Item/Years                         82/83  83/84 84/85 85/86 86187 87188 Total
A. Roads
New Construction (km)s  Estimate   110   130   160    -         -    -      400
Actual     137    !6   146   260    87   25    711
Rehabilitation   (kmi:  Eqtimate   600   700   900    -         -    -    2200
Actual     359   491   427   485    36  353   2151
Support Works    (km):  Estimate   800   850   850    -         -    -    2500
Actual     323   336   414   141    17   34   1265
B.  Bridges
New Construction 1(m):  Estimate  1200  1500  1800    -         -    -    4500
Actual      133   615  1207  2330   155  394   4834
Rehabilitation    (m):  Estimate   300   300   400    -         -    -    1000
Actual     132    77   235   201    50   -        695
Support Works      (m):  Estimate    -       -     -     -      -    -       -
Actual       -     -    695   471    54  153   1373
C. Culverts
New Construction 1(m):  Estimate    -        -     -      -     -    -       -
Actual     102    90  1641    -    104   -    1937
Rehabilitation    (m): Estimate    -         -     -      -     -    -       -
Actual     165    -   2397    -       -    -    2562
Support Works      (m)s  Estimate    -       -     -     -      -    -       -
Actual      -      -   3491    -      -    -    3491
1   Including replacement.



62
T. Exaected and Actual Ecuioment Procured
'.ICB
t.   .c;
2uantities              Actual Quantities        Totat
Item No a Description             make £ Model              Estimated at            Procured by location
Purchased                Appraisal                Bina   Prov.  Kabu-
Constr-  Support  Total    Merge  Work   pate.
uction   work               Depots shops
/Works
I Crawter Dozer (100 hp)           Komatsu 0 50 A-1600 hp)   18                   18         1       -     15        16
2 Motor Grader (100 hp)            Konatsu CD31 Rc-3A          SO        30       80         S      13     61        79
3 Pneumatic Roller (8-14 t)        Sakai TS 150                50         -        SO        5      21     24        50
4 Vibrating Roller (4 t)            Sakai SW 40                67         -        67        6      11     SO        67
SFront end Loader (0.75 cum)    Koelco LK 300                  52                 52        19       6     n7-       52
6 wheeled Excavator (0.S cum)    Hitachi Wm 051                la                  10        2       3      5        10
7Nobile Crane (O t)                 Tda notOO L                10                  10         1      6      3        10
8 Stone Crusher (20 tph)            Kawasaki KS 2014           25                  25        6       5      14       25
9 Paddle Mixer (500 t)              Golden Star PO 500         62                  62        5      27     30        62
10 Asphalt Finisher (2-3,5 m)               MF 30 2 CR          10         -        10        7       3               10
11 Bitumen Sprayer (1000 1)          Bukaka SAS 1000 SP         27         -        27        4       S      1s       27
12 Air Compressor (180 cfm)          Komatsu SR SOZ-3           25                  25        2       4      19       25
13 Mechanicat Rammer ((S hp)         Tokuden S. 80              55                  55        4      24     2?        55
14 Mobile Workshop                  Gapure TRO-40               1U        26        36                8     28        36
15 Water Pump (2.5-3 in)             Kawamato FSR 80A           so         *                   '     '5     3!
16 Wheet Loader/Backhoe (70 hp)   Kobeico LK 300 B                        52        52                1     51        52
17 Vib. Roller, pedestrian (2 t)  6omag BSW 100 Ad                -       25        25        8       2      15        S
18 Conreete Mixer (250 1)            Golden Star S9-250                   48        48                1      47       48
19 Bitumen Sprayer (750 t)           Bukaka 8AS 850 SP                    32        32         1      4      27       32
20 Mobile Asphalt Plant (10 tph)  Tanaka TAP PB 10                        17        17         9      8       -        1
21 Trailer (I t)                     Gapura CAP 01 TR            25                 25         6      7      12       25
22 Trailer (12-15 t)                                             25                 25                7      18       25
Source : P.oeict Management Unit
II. Reserved Procurement (locally purchased, financed by GOI)
Quantities               Actuat Quantities
Estimoted at            Procured by location        Equipment
Item Mo & Description               Make & Model         Appraisal            Sine   Prov.  KetY   Total   Still
Purchased  ..       ..........M.. e Prge  Work   paten                Available
C.rc.  Support  Total  Depots shops                     ard Usabte
work           /Works                         in 1988
t Dump Truck (3-4 t)              Isuzu & Daihatsu   520        56      S81    17    25        275    317         220
2 Water Tank Truck (4000 1)                            62        -        64     .        .
39' & tTank Trerk (4000 l)                             62        *        62     .      .       .    
* 'icK Up (1,5 t)                                       -       77        n
5 Pick Up (0.75 t)                                     12        -        12     .
6 Pick Up (0.5 t)                                               33        33
7 Jeep (4 x 4)                                         15       12        27     .
8Jeep (4 x 4 with winch)                               10        -        10
9 Motorcycle (150-250 cc)                              30       77       103     .
10 Generotor (5 kVa)                                    12        -        12    10      2               12         12
11 Hand tools (sets)                                             25        25
12 Generator (1,5 3,0 kva)                                    -             6     . 
13 Flat bed Truck (3.5 t)                                .
14 Steel Wheel Roller (8-lU t)  Berate                            S         S                    S       S           5
15 Stone Crusher (40-SO tph                                       -         2
723      285              27    27       280    334        237
Source : Project Management Unit



S. Protect Coat and Flnaneino
A. Project Costs 1
Appraisal Etimato                             Actual Expenditure.
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total Local  Foreign Total
Project EleAmnt.           -Rp billIon----   --US5m8 milI on--   ----Rp billion-    ----USat ilIIon-
A.  Civil Works 2
1. DPtUK programs           98.8   30.5  123.8    149.4  48.9  198.8  66.2   22.4   78.8   63.4  21.3    74.7
2.  Jambi DPUIP proram       6.8    2.2   8.0         9.3   8.6    12.9   1.8    0.6        1.9    1.2   0.6        1.7
Subtotal A            99.1   32.7  131.8    168.7  62.6  211.2  57.5   28.0   80.S   54.8  21.6    76.4
B. Equi ment
1. Road Equipment            1.9   28.3  30.2         3.0  45.1   48.1    1.1   19.1    20.2    1.0  18.2   19.2
2.  Miscellaneous Equipment  0.1    1.8   1.7         0.2   2.6    2.8   0.0    0.4    0.4    0.0   0.3            0.8
3.  Vehicles and other 3    -
Equipment              3.2   10.4  18.6         6.0  18.7   21.7   8.9    0.0    3.9    6.8   0.0             5.8
Subtotal 8            5.2   40.3  45.5         8.2  64.4   72.6   5.0    19.5   24.5    6.8   18.5          26.8
C. DPUK Worksbops
1. Land and Buildings        6.1    0.6   6.6         9.9   0.7   10.8   5.5    0.6    6.1.    5.8   0.6           6.4
2. Workshop and Labora-
tory Equipment         0.8    2.8   3.1         0.8   4.6    4.9   0.6    6.3    6.8    0.4    3.9            4.3
Subtotal C            6.4    3.3   9.7        10.2   5.3   16.5   6.0        6.9   11.9    6.4   6.3    10.7
D. Consulting Services           1.0    2.8   3.8         1.6   4.3    6.9   6.3   18.7   24.0    3.7  13.1    16.8
Total ProJect Cost.         111.7   79.1 190.9    178.7  126.6  305.2 73.8   67.1  140.9   70.5  68.7    129.2
1 Including taxo end price and quantity contingencies.
2 Appraisal Estimates do not include deprecation of equipment flnancod under the project.
3 Locally purchaed under 00! reserved procurement procedures. Actual expenditure Includes the cost of
dump trucks (USIS.4 million) not included In the revised total cost table of the Borrower'e PCR
(Part I, paes 4Ba).



64
B. Proiect Financing
Planned
Source                          Loan Agreement   Revised        Final
(US$ '000)    (US$ '000)  CUS$ '000)
A. IBRD
Category 1: Civil Works             43,000        43,000       43,418
Category 2: Equipment               42,000        34,500       24,238
Category 3: Consulting Services      5,000         8,600       16,856
Unallocated                         10,000         1,900          -
Sub-Total IBRD                  100,000        85,000       84,512
Cancelled                             -          (15,000)    (15,488)
B. Domestic                            205,200          n.a.       44,688
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------
TOTAL                          305,200           -        129,200
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------
6. Project Results
Economic Impact
Appraisal               Estimated Actual
Estimate               (At Final Development)
Economic                  25Z                   much lower than 25Z
Rate of Return
Underlying
Assumptions
Life of road. works         10 years              2-3 years
Comments: The main factors contributing to the shorter life of road
works than estimated at appraisal have been poor design and
construction and lack of maintenance.



65
7.  Status of Covenants
Article      Subject and Deadline              Status
3.01 (a)    001 to execute in  conformity   Project control  and  management
with   appropriate    highway   unit set up and reconstituted as
engineering,   administrative   required  to  eliminate  initial
and  financial practices  and   deficiencies.  Technical consul-
provide   funds,    services,   tants  appointed  and  term   ot
facilities     and      other   contract  extended as  necessary
necessary resources              to  assist  In  definition   and
implementation  of   appropriate
practices.    Project    funding
assured   under  Inpres   Jalan.
Facilities, services and other
resources   provided   by   Bina
Harga,   MHS,  DPUK,  and   DPUP
Jambi.
3.01 (b)    DPUKs to be responsible  for    Complied with
implementation   and  super-
vision of all works
3.02        Rural    road    improvement    Bank   advised   of   programmes
programmes in Part A  to  be    procedures and criteria accepted
prepared   under  procedures    by  Bank  In  June  1983, after
and practices acceptable  to    which HHA instructed  kabupatens
the Bank                         to proceed ac*tordingly.
Mamnal setting out procedures   Complied with through MUA
and   criteria  to  be   made
available  to  DPUKs by   30
April 1982.
3.03 (a)    Selection,    qualifications,   Complied with
experience   and  terms   and
conditions of employment of
consultants to eccord with
Bank guidelines.
3.03 (b)    GO  to  appoint  consultants   Project  Secretariate   provided
for   DPUK  and   DPUP  Jambi  with interim technical assistan-
programmes and Project Seere-   ce  consultancy service by  July
tariate by 1 July 1982.          1982; other consultants appoint-
ed as fellows :
18 DPUKs In Sumatra : November
1982
7 DPUKs In V. Java' : September
1982
DPUP Jambi : February   1983
Project Secretariate :  hugust
1983



66
.
Further DPUP and DPUK  plans
August 1982
3.03 (a)    COI to second 20  staff  for  Compliance  not fully  achieved
DPUK  technical support by I  until  August 1982  because  of
April 1982                      staff selection problems
and
to second 10 staff, for prepa- Complied with but not confirmed
ration   of  further   DPUK   until August 1982
programmess by 1 July 1982.
3.04 (a)    Adequate inmurance cover for   Complied  with  up to  point of
imported goods                  acceptance  by Bloa Marga   as
procurer.
3.04 (b)    Goods and  aervices  out of  Complied with. Some road  works
loan proceeds to be used        equipment deployed on llational
exclusively   for   Project  and  Provincial road  works  to
purposes.                       raise    utilisation  but  Loan
Agreement requires  maintenance
of these roads to be actively
pursued (see Article 4.03 (4))
3.05 (a)    GOI  to  furnish  Dank,   on   Complied with, all such requosts
request, with  plans, speci-  received and responded to during
ficationa, reporta,  contract  Bank missions.
documents  and  work   and
procurement schedules.
3.05 (b)   GOI to maintain  records and   Complied  with through the  work
i)          procedures for monitoring the   of  Project Secretariate  and
Project and to  identity  and   Project    tanageoent    Unit.
disclose  use  of goods and   Detailed  records of road  works
and servicos financed out of  costs held by DPUKs on  instruc-
the Project.                    tion from MHA
3.05 (b;   00    to    enable    Bank   Complied with; all such requests
(ii)        representative to visit faci-  recelved and responded to during
lities and construction sites   Bank  missions,  several sites
visited.
3.05 (b)    COI to prepare report on ex-   This report intended to  satisfy
(iii)       cution and initial operation    compliance
of the Project.
3.05 (d)    GOI to  acquire  all  land    Complied   with,  no    projects
required  for the  Project   delayed    or   deleted    from
programe for this reason
3.07 (a)    001 to  ensur  that DPUKs,   Shortages    of   appropriately
are adequateli  taffed   for   qualified and experiened  staff
ProJect by 1 April 1982.        delayed  compliance but achieved
in late 1982 by secondenot of
staff from the DPUP.
2



67
3.07 (b) O   ol to  *nsure  that adequate   Complied vith.
provision of on-site managers
in sufficient numbers In each
kabupaten by 1 April 1982.
(c)    00!   to  submit  long   term   Not  submitted  by  agreed  date
manpower  plan to Rank  by  I   becauw ,f uncertaincies regard-
April 1983, and impleament  It   ing the demand for  capacity  in
taking   account   of   Bank;   DPUKs; detailed plan for wunning
corents.                         levels and training prepared  in
1988.
3.08        GO  to  enroll  an  adequate   800  DPUK   staff  from  the  25
number of stafff on  training   kabupaten trained during 1982/83
cour3es.                          by Binas  arga.
3.09        GO0  to ensure that staff  of   DPUX staff from  each  kabupaten
the    kabupaten      planning   attended    project   manacecent
agencies  are to  the  extent   courses run by BDna Marga.
possible   enrolled  In   the
local   Governcent    Trainee
Project courses run by MHA.
3.10         GO!  to  seek Bank   approval   Complied  with for  1982/83  and
annually to unit  costs  used   1983/84 but neitbor required nor
to calculato Bank contrlbutl-   nor requested thoreafter because
on capital road works.            reimbursement  based  on  actual
costs.
3.11         MNA  to  establish  a ProJect   Complied with.
3ecretariate.
4.01         GOS to ensure priority of the   Complied with.
loan   over  other   external
debts.
4.02 (a)    COX  to maintain records  and   Compli.d with
accounts of all operations,
resources and expenditure.
4.02 (b)    G0O  to  retain  all  orders,   Complied  with, documentation  on
invoices, bills, receipts and   civil  works  held by  DPUKs  and
other   documents  evidencing   DPUP Jambi.
expenditure.
4.02 (a)    GOS to prepare auditted            Delayed  compliance. 1982/83  and
accounts annually within  six   1983184   submtted   June  1986,
maonths of end of such financt   1984/85  and  1985/86  submitted
al year.                          July 1986.



68
4.03 (a)    GOZ to maintain and repaLr as   With  regard to mlatenance  the
necessa   all roads,  bridges   Project mde Dprovi5j.  only  ror
anA other atructures construe   equipmaet precurement.  Zn their
ted  or  improved  under  the   eandevour   to  carrwy   out   an
Projeat.                         efetive   ProJeet    programs
resoures  were c ncentrat.d  on
noev    cI, wt   works    thereby
weakening    the     maintenance
e'fort.   Positive  action   nolw
being    taken   by    including
maintenance   work  in  the   25
kabupaten tn the Second IBRD
Rural Roods ProJect.
4.03 (b)    G10 to tmprove the maintenan-   Complied with; no such  arterial
ce   of the   arterial   and   or        collector   roada    have
collector roads connecting       collapsed  or aro in danger   of
the roads constructed,           closure.



69
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff-Weeks)
Task        FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 TOTAL
Preparation    4.5  33.7 37.1                                             75.3
Appraisal                 30.6 24.3                                       54.9
Negotiation                    14.5                                       14.6
Supervision                    13.7 10.7 17.1 10.6 7.3  5.7  2.1   .5   67.7
Completion                                                                11.4
TOTAL      4.5  33.7 67.7 52.5 10.7 17.1 10.6 7.3  5.7  2.1  4.8  223.9
B.  Field Mission Data
Stage of         Nonth/  No. of   Days in    Specializatipoi  Performange Type of  dI
Project Cycle       Year    Persons  Field a/   Represented it   Ratingac   Problems d
Identification      07179      3      19          23, H            -
Preparation         11179      1      17          E                -
Preparation         04/80      3      n.a.        n.a.             -
Preparation         07/80      1      19          E                -
Pre-appraisal       10/80      3      21          E,H,?            -
Appraisal           02/81      4      21          2E,H,A           -
Post-appraisal      07/81      2      14          E,H              -
Supervision I       01/82      2      18          E,H              1
Supervision II      06/82      2      27          E,H              2            H
Supervision III    10/82       2      13          E,H             2             H
Supervision IV      05/83      1      24          H                2            M,F
Supervision V       0_184      1      16          H                2            M,F
Supervision VI      05/84      2      15          2H               2            M,F
Supervision VII    10/84       1      25          H               2             M,T
Supervision VIII   02/85       1      24          H                3            M,T
Supervision IX      05/85      1      20          H               2             M,T
Supervision X       06/86      2      25          E,H             2
Supervision XI      09187      1       4          H                2
a/    Days in field include time spent on other requirements.
b/    Specialization:  E - economist; H - highway engineer; A - agronomist
c/    1 - Problem Free or Minor Problems; 2 - Moderate Problems; 3 - Major Problems
di    F   Financial; H - Managerial; T - Technical



